10-K


w77522e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009

Commission file number 1-12672

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

77-0404318

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

2900 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300

Alexandria, Virginia 22314

(Address of principal executive office)

(703) 329-6300

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

(Title of each class)

(Name of each exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding twelve (12) months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated
filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Smaller reporting company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant, as of June 30, 2009 was $4,435,004,264.

The number of shares of the registrant’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, outstanding as of
January 31, 2010 was 81,546,465.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s Proxy Statement for the 2010 annual meeting of
stockholders, a definitive copy of which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the year
end of the year covered by this Form 10-K, are incorporated by reference herein as portions of Part
III of this Form 10-K.


PART I

PAGE

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS


ITEM 1a.

RISK FACTORS


ITEM 1b.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


ITEM 2.

COMMUNITIES


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM 4.

[RESERVED]


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7a.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
MARKET RISK


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS

ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM 9a.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


ITEM 9b.

OTHER INFORMATION


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS

AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS


ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPEND ENCE


ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


SIGNATURES


PART I

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our actual results
could differ materially from those set forth in each forward-looking statement. Certain factors
that might cause such a difference are discussed in this report, including in the section entitled
“Forward-Looking Statements” included in this Form 10-K. You should also review Item 1a., “Risk
Factors,” for a discussion of various risks that could adversely affect us.

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

General

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the “Company,” which term, unless the context otherwise requires,
refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation
that has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust, (“REIT”), for federal income tax
purposes. We engage in the development, redevelopment, acquisition, ownership and operation of
multifamily communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States. These barriers to
entry generally include a difficult and lengthy entitlement process with local jurisdictions and
dense urban or suburban areas where zoned and entitled land is in limited supply. Our markets are
located in New England, the New York/New Jersey metro area, the Washington DC Metro area, the
Midwest, the Pacific Northwest, and the Northern and Southern California regions of the United
States. We focus on these markets because we believe that over the long-term, a limited new supply
of apartment homes and lower housing affordability in these markets will result in higher growth in
cash flows relative to other markets.

At January 31, 2010, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in:

•

164 operating apartment communities containing 47,631 apartment homes in ten states and
the District of Columbia, of which, 140 were consolidated communities containing 42,108
apartment homes, three communities containing 983 apartment homes were held by joint
ventures in which we own an interest, and 21 communities containing 4,540 apartment homes
were owned by the Funds (as defined below). Seven of the consolidated communities
containing 2,615 apartment homes were under redevelopment, as discussed below;

•

seven communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 2,438
apartment homes when completed; and

•

rights to develop an additional 28 communities that, if developed in the manner
expected, will contain an estimated 7,180 apartment homes.

We generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new community on vacant
land or by acquiring an existing community. In selecting sites for development or acquisition, we
favor locations that are near expanding employment centers and convenient to transportation,
recreation areas, entertainment, shopping and dining.

Our consolidated real estate investments consist of the following reportable segments: Established
Communities, Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Established
Communities are generally operating communities that were owned and had stabilized occupancy and
operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are
meaningful. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have
stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but that had not achieved
stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year such that year-over-year comparisons are not
meaningful as well as communities that are planned for disposition during the current year.
Development/Redevelopment Communities consist of communities that are under construction,
communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the
current year and communities under lease-up. A more detailed description of these segments and
other related information can be found in Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of the Consolidated
Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

Our principal financial goal is to increase long-term stockholder value through the development,
acquisition, operation and, when appropriate, disposition of apartments in our markets. To help
fulfill this goal, we regularly (i) monitor our investment allocation by geographic market and
product type, (ii) develop, redevelop and acquire an interest in apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets with growing or high potential
for demand and


high for-sale housing costs, (iii) selectively sell apartment communities that no
longer meet our long-term strategy or when opportunities are presented to realize a portion of the
value created through our investment and redeploy the proceeds from those sales, and (iv) endeavor
to maintain a capital structure that is aligned with our business risks with a view to maintaining
continuous access to cost-effective capital. Our time-tested strategy is to be leaders in customer insight, market research and capital allocation, delivering a range of multifamily offerings tailored to serve the needs of the most attractive customer segments in the best-performing US submarkets.  A substantial majority of our current communities are
upscale, which generally command among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also pursue
the ownership and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and
price points, consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services.

During the three years ended December 31, 2009, excluding activity for the Funds (as defined
below), we acquired one apartment community. This community’s financial results are consolidated
for financial reporting purposes. During the same three-year period, excluding dispositions in
which we retained an ownership interest, we disposed of 19 apartment communities, disposed of one
investment in a real estate joint venture and completed the development of 30 apartment communities
and the redevelopment of 10 apartment communities.

During this period, we also realized gains from the sale of a community owned by AvalonBay Value
Added Fund, L.P. (“Fund I”), an institutional discretionary investment fund, which we manage and in
which we own a 15.2% interest. Fund I acquired communities with the objective of either
redeveloping or repositioning them, or taking advantage of market cycle timing and improved
operating performance. From its inception in March 2005 through the close of its investment period
in March 2008, Fund I acquired 20 communities. Fund I sold one community in 2008.

In September 2008, we formed AvalonBay Value Added Fund II, L.P. (“Fund II”), an additional
institutional discretionary investment fund which we manage and in which we currently own a 31.3%
interest. After adding additional equity commitments in the second quarter of 2009, a total of five
institutional investors and the Company collectively committed $400,000,000, of which our
commitment is $125,000,000. During 2009, Fund II acquired two communities. A more detailed
description of Fund I and Fund II (collectively, the “Funds”) and the related investment activity
can be found in the discussion under Item I., “Business — General — Financing Strategy” and Note
6, “Investments in Real Estate Entities” of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this
report.

During 2009, we sold seven real estate assets, resulting in a gain in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) of $65,946,000.

A further discussion of our development, redevelopment, disposition, acquisition, property
management and related strategies follows.


Development Strategy.

We select land for development and follow established procedures that we
believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. As one of the largest developers of
multifamily rental apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States, we
identify development opportunities through local market presence and access to local market
information achieved through our regional offices. In addition to our principal executive office
in Alexandria, Virginia, we also maintain regional offices, administrative offices or specialty
offices in or near the following cities:

•

Boston, Massachusetts;

•

Chicago, Illinois;

•

Long Island, New York;

•

Los Angeles, California;

•

New York, New York;

•

Newport Beach, California;

•

San Francisco, California;

•

San Jose, California;

•

Seattle, Washington;

•

Shelton, Connecticut;

•

Virginia Beach, Virginia; and

•

Woodbridge, New Jersey.

We will be moving our principal executive office to Arlington, Virginia by June 2010.

After selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the site either
through an option or a long-term conditional contract. Options and long-term conditional contracts
generally allow us to acquire the target site shortly before the start of construction, which
reduces development-related risks and preserves capital. However, as a result of competitive
market conditions for land suitable for development, we have sometimes acquired and held land prior
to construction for extended periods while entitlements are obtained, or acquired land zoned for
uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning. For further discussion of our
Development Rights, refer to Item 2., “Communities” in this report.

We generally act as our own general contractor and construction manager, except for certain
mid-rise and high-rise apartment communities where we may elect to use third-party general
contractors or construction managers. We generally perform these functions directly (although we
may use a wholly owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and for the joint ventures and partnerships
of which we are a member or a partner. We believe this enables us to achieve higher construction
quality, greater control over construction schedules and significant cost savings. Our development,
property management and construction teams monitor construction progress to ensure quality
workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the leasing and operating phase.

During periods where competition for development land is more intense, we may acquire improved land
with existing commercial uses and rezone the site for multi-family residential use. During the
period that we hold these buildings for future development, the net revenue from these operations,
which we consider to be incidental, is accounted for as a reduction in our investment in the
development pursuit and not as net income. We have also participated, and may in the future
participate, in master planned or other large multi-use developments where we commit to build
infrastructure (such as roads) to be used by other participants or commit to act as construction
manager or general contractor in building structures or spaces for third parties (such as municipal
garages or parks). Costs we incur in connection with these activities may be accounted for as
additional invested capital in the community or we may earn fee income for providing these
services. Particularly with large scale, urban in-fill developments, we may engage in significant
environmental remediation efforts to prepare a site for construction.

Throughout this report, the term “development” is used to refer to the entire property development
cycle, including pursuit of zoning approvals, procurement of architectural and engineering designs
and the construction process. References to “construction” refer to the actual construction of the
property, which is only one element of the development cycle.

Redevelopment Strategy

. When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our goal is to
renovate and/or rebuild an existing community so that our total investment is generally below
replacement cost and the community is well positioned in the market to achieve attractive returns
on our capital. We have established a dedicated group


of associates and procedures to control both the cost and risks of redevelopment. Our redevelopment
teams, which include key redevelopment, construction and property management personnel, monitor
redevelopment progress. We believe we achieve significant cost savings by acting as our own
general contractor. More importantly, this helps to ensure quality design and workmanship and a
smooth and timely transition into the lease-up and restabilization phases.

Throughout this report, the term “redevelopment” is used to refer to the entire redevelopment
cycle, including planning and procurement of architectural and engineering designs, budgeting and
actual renovation work. The actual renovation work is referred to as “reconstruction,” which is
only one element of the redevelopment cycle.

Disposition Strategy.

We sell assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market
conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and
acquire communities and to rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. This also
allows us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provides additional
liquidity. We are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising
that amount of capital externally. When we decide to sell a community, we solicit competing bids
from unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price of each proposal.

Acquisition Strategy.

Our core competencies in development and redevelopment discussed above allow
us to be selective in the acquisitions we target. Acquisitions allow us to achieve rapid
penetration into markets in which we desire an increased presence. Acquisitions (and dispositions)
also help us achieve our desired product mix or rebalance our portfolio. In September 2008, we
formed Fund II, which serves as the exclusive vehicle through which we acquire additional
investments in apartment communities until the earlier of September 2011 or until 90% of its
committed capital is invested, subject to limited exceptions. As of December 31, 2009, Fund II had
acquired two communities.

Property Management Strategy

. We seek to increase operating income through innovative, proactive
property management that will result in higher revenue from communities while constraining
operating expenses. Our principal strategies to maximize revenue include:

•

strong focus on resident satisfaction;

•

staggering lease terms such that lease expirations are better matched to traffic
patterns;

•

balancing high occupancy with premium pricing, and increasing rents as market conditions
permit; and

•

managing community occupancy for optimal rental revenue levels.

Constraining growth in operating expenses is another way in which we seek to increase earnings
growth. Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue allows for fixed operating
costs to be spread over a larger volume of revenue, thereby increasing operating margins. We
constrain growth in operating expenses in a variety of ways, which include the following, among
others:

•

we use purchase order controls, acquiring goods and services from pre-approved vendors;

•

we purchase supplies in bulk where possible;

•

we bid third-party contracts on a volume basis;

•

we strive to retain residents through high levels of service in order to eliminate the
cost of preparing an apartment home for a new resident and to reduce marketing and vacant
apartment utility costs;

•

we perform turnover work in-house or hire third parties, generally depending upon the
least costly alternative;

•

we undertake preventive maintenance regularly to maximize resident satisfaction and
property and equipment life; and

•

we aggressively pursue real estate tax appeals.

On-site property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the net operating income
(“NOI”) produced at their respective communities. We use and continuously seek ways to improve
technology applications to help manage our communities, believing that the accurate collection of
financial and resident data will enable us to maximize revenue and control costs through careful
leasing decisions, maintenance decisions and financial management.


We generally manage the operation and leasing activity of our communities directly (although we may
use a wholly owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and the joint ventures and partnerships of which
we are a member or a partner.

From time to time we also pursue or arrange ancillary services for our residents to provide
additional revenue sources or increase resident satisfaction. In general, as a REIT we cannot
directly provide services to our tenants that are not customarily provided by a landlord, nor can
we share in the income of a third party that provides such services. However, we can provide such
non-customary services to residents or share in the revenue from such services if we do so through
a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” which is a subsidiary that is treated as a “C corporation” and is
therefore subject to federal income taxes.

Financing Strategy.

We maintain a capital structure that provides financial flexibility to ensure
we can select cost effective capital market options that are well matched to our business risks. We
estimate that our short-term liquidity needs will be met from cash on hand, borrowings under our
$1,000,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility (the “Credit Facility”), sales of
current operating communities and/or issuance of additional debt or equity securities. A
determination to engage in an equity or debt offering depends on a variety of factors such as
general market and economic conditions, including interest rates, our short and long-term liquidity
needs, the adequacy of our expected liquidity sources, the relative costs of debt and equity
capital and growth opportunities. A summary of debt and equity activity for the last three years
is reflected on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows of the Consolidated Financial Statements
set forth in Item 8 of this report.

We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including
limited liability companies or partnerships) through which we would own an indirect economic
interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint ventures.
Our decision whether to hold an apartment community in fee simple or to have an indirect interest
in the community through a joint venture is based on a variety of factors and considerations,
including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by a seller of land or of a community; (ii) our
desire to diversify our portfolio of communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our
desire at times to preserve our capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength;
and (iv) our projection, in some circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested
capital or reduce our risk if a joint venture vehicle is used. Investments in joint ventures are
not limited to a specified percentage of our assets. Each joint venture agreement is individually
negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be
limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement.

From its inception in 2005 until the investment period closed in March 2008, Fund I was the
exclusive vehicle through which we invested in the acquisition of apartment communities, subject to
certain exceptions. In September 2008, we formed Fund II. Fund II now serves as the exclusive
vehicle through which we invest in the acquisition of apartment communities, subject to certain
exceptions, until the earlier of September 2011 or until 90% of its committed capital is invested.
These exceptions include significant individual asset and portfolio acquisitions, properties
acquired in tax-deferred transactions and acquisitions that are inadvisable or inappropriate for
Fund II. Fund II does not restrict our development activities, and will terminate after a term of
ten years, subject to two one-year extensions. Fund II has equity commitments from five
institutional investors who, with the Company, collectively committed $400,000,000, of which our
commitment is $125,000,000. A significant portion of the investments made in the Funds by investors
have been or will be made through an entity that qualifies, or that will qualify as a REIT and in
which we also own an equity interest. As of January 31, 2010, Fund II has made two investments,
for a total of $104,330,000 invested. In February 2010, Fund II purchased its third community for a
purchase price of $31,250,000.

In addition, we may, from time to time, offer shares of our equity securities, debt securities or
options to purchase stock in exchange for property.

Other Strategies and Activities

. While we emphasize equity real estate investments in rental
apartment communities, we have the ability to invest in other types of real estate, mortgages
(including participating or convertible mortgages), securities of other REITs or real estate
operating companies, or securities of technology companies that relate to our real estate
operations or of companies that provide services to us or our residents, in each case consistent
with our qualification as a REIT. In addition, we own and lease retail space at our communities
when either (i) the highest and best use of the space is for retail (e.g., street level in an urban
area) or (ii) we believe the retail space will enhance the attractiveness of the community to
residents. As of December 31, 2009, we had a


total of 456,260 square feet of rentable retail space, excluding retail space within communities
currently under construction. Gross rental revenue provided by leased retail space in 2009 was
$8,915,000 (1.0% of total revenue). If we secure a development right and believe that its best
use, in whole or in part, is to develop the real estate with the intent to sell rather than hold
the asset, we may, through a taxable REIT subsidiary, develop real estate for sale. At present,
through a taxable REIT subsidiary that is a 50% partner in Aria at Hathorne, LLC, we have an
economic interest in the development of for-sale town homes that have a total projected capital
cost of $23,621,000. This for-sale development is on a site that is adjacent to our Avalon Danvers
community and that is zoned for for-sale development. Any investment in securities of other
entities, and any development of real estate for sale, is subject to the percentage of ownership
limitations, gross income tests, and other limitations that must be observed for REIT
qualification.

We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of other
issuers and do not intend to do so. At all times we intend to make investments in a manner so as
to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes to the Internal Revenue Code (or
the Treasury Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best
interest to qualify as a REIT.

Tax Matters

We filed an election with our 1994 federal income tax return to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“the Code”), as amended, and intend to maintain our qualification as
a REIT in the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, we will not be taxed under
federal and certain state income tax laws at the corporate level on our taxable net income to the
extent taxable net income is distributed to our stockholders. We expect to make sufficient
distributions to avoid income tax at the corporate level. While we believe that we are organized
and qualified as a REIT and we intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to
qualify as a REIT, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard.
Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations and
involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
our control.

Competition

We face competition from other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and
investment funds, partnerships and investment companies and other REITs, to acquire and develop
apartment communities and acquire land for future development. As an owner and operator of
apartment communities, we also face competition for prospective residents from other operators
whose communities may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may
be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks.
We also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Although
we often compete against large sophisticated developers and operators for development opportunities
and for prospective residents, real estate developers and operators of any size can provide
effective competition for both real estate assets and potential residents.

Environmental and Related Matters

As a current or prior owner, operator and developer of real estate, we are subject to various
federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances and also could be liable to
third parties resulting from environmental contamination or noncompliance at our communities. For
some development communities, we undertake extensive environmental remediation to prepare the site
for construction, which could be a significant portion of our total construction cost.
Environmental remediation efforts could expose us to possible liabilities for accidents or improper
handling of contaminated materials during construction. These and other risks related to
environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1a., “Risk Factors”.

We believe that more government regulation of energy use, along with a greater focus on
environmental protection may, over time, have a significant impact on urban growth patterns. If
changes in zoning to encourage greater density and proximity to mass transit do occur, such changes
could benefit multifamily housing and those companies with a competency in high-density
development. However, there can be no assurance as to whether or


when such changes in regulations or zoning will occur or, if they do occur, whether the multifamily industry or the
Company will benefit from such changes.

Other Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.
You may read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may call the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 for further information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from
the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, you may read our SEC fillings at the offices of the
New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), which is located at 11 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005.
Our SEC filings are available at the NYSE because our common stock is listed on the NYSE.

We maintain a website at www.avalonbay.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the “Investor
Relations” section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed
with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, the charters of our Board’s Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, as well as our Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, are available free of charge in that section of our
website or by writing to AvalonBay Communities, Inc., 2900 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300,
Alexandria, Virginia 22314, Attention: Chief Financial Officer. To the extent required by the
rules of the SEC and the NYSE, we will disclose amendments and waivers relating to these documents
in the same place on our website.

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of California in 1978. In 1995, we reincorporated
in the State of Maryland and have been focused on the ownership and operation of apartment
communities since that time. As of January 31, 2010, we had 1,877 employees.


ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS

Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences, including those
described below. This Item 1a. includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our
discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K.

Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability.

We intend to continue to develop and redevelop apartment home communities. These activities can
include long planning and entitlement timelines and can involve complex and costly activities,
including significant environmental remediation or construction work in high-density urban areas.
These activities may be exposed to the following risks:

•

we may abandon opportunities that we have already begun to explore for a number of
reasons, including changes in local market conditions or increases in construction or
financing costs, and, as a result, we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in
exploring those opportunities;

•

occupancy rates and rents at a community may fail to meet our original expectations for
a number of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our
control and the development by competitors of competing communities;

•

we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary zoning,
occupancy, or other required governmental or third party permits and authorizations, which
could result in increased costs or the delay or abandonment of opportunities;

•

we may incur costs that exceed our original estimates due to increased material, labor
or other costs;

•

occupancy rates and rents at a community may fail to meet our expectations for a number
of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the
development by competitors of competing communities;

•

we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule,
resulting in increased construction and financing costs and a decrease in expected rental
revenues;

•

we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at all, for the proposed
development of a community, which may cause us to delay or abandon an opportunity;

•

we may incur liabilities to third parties during the development process, for example,
in connection with managing existing improvements on the site prior to tenant terminations
and demolition (such as commercial space) or in connection with providing services to
third parties (such as the construction of shared infrastructure or other improvements);
and

•

we may incur liability if our communities are not constructed and operated in
compliance with the accessibility provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Acts, the
Fair Housing Act or other federal, state or local requirements. Noncompliance could
result in imposition of fines, an award of damages to private litigants, and a requirement
that we undertake structural modifications to remedy the noncompliance. We are currently
engaged in litigation alleging noncompliance with these statutes. See Item 3., “Legal
Proceedings.”

We project construction costs based on market conditions at the time we prepare our budgets, and
our projections include changes that we anticipate but cannot predict with certainty.
Construction costs may increase, particularly for labor and certain materials and, for some of our
Development Communities and Development Rights (as defined below), the total construction costs
may be higher than the original budget. Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs
incurred and projected to be incurred to develop or redevelop a community, determined in
accordance with GAAP, including:

•

land and/or property acquisition costs;

•

fees paid to secure air rights and/or tax abatements;

•

construction or reconstruction costs;

•

costs of environmental remediation;

•

real estate taxes;

•

capitalized interest;


•

loan fees;

•

permits;

•

professional fees;

•

allocated development or redevelopment overhead; and

•

other regulatory fees.

Costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded our original
estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. We cannot assure you
that market rents in effect at the time new development or redevelopment communities complete
lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or
reconstruction costs.

Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could hurt occupancy, rental rates,
operating expenses, and the overall market value of our assets, including joint ventures and
investments in the Funds.

Local conditions in our markets significantly affect occupancy, rental rates and the operating
performance of our communities. The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets
include the following:

•

plant closings, industry slowdowns and other factors that adversely affect the local
economy;

•

an oversupply of, or a reduced demand for, apartment homes;

•

a decline in household formation or employment or lack of employment growth;

•

the inability or unwillingness of residents to pay rent increases;

•

rent control or rent stabilization laws, or other laws regulating housing, that could
prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and

•

economic conditions that could cause an increase in our operating expenses, such as
increases in property taxes, utilities, compensation of on-site associates and routine
maintenance.

Changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect our
operations or expose us to liability.

We must develop, construct and operate our communities in compliance with numerous federal, state
and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to
limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning
laws, building codes, landlord tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business
operations. Noncompliance with laws could expose us to liability.

Lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated expenditures may result from our need to comply
with changes in (i) laws imposing remediation requirements and the potential liability for
environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other
conditions, (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other residential landlord/tenant laws,
or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the
development, use and operation of our communities, including changes to building codes and fire and
life-safety codes.

Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents.

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases
generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental
revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer
terms.

Competition could limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents.

Our apartment communities compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including
other rental apartments, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well
as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential
housing in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to
increase or maintain rental rates.


Attractive investment opportunities may not be available, which could adversely affect our
profitability.

We expect that other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension funds, other
REITs and other well-capitalized investors, will compete with us to acquire existing properties
and to develop new properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type
we would likely pursue and adversely affect our profitability.

Capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to various sources of capital
and/or the cost of capital, which could impact our business activities, dividends, earnings, and
common stock price, among other things.

In periods when the capital and credit markets experience significant volatility, the amounts,
sources and cost of capital available to us may be adversely affected. We primarily use external
financing to fund construction and to refinance indebtedness as it matures. If sufficient sources
of external financing are not available to us on cost effective terms, we could be forced to limit
our development and redevelopment activity and/or take other actions to fund our business
activities and repayment of debt, such as selling assets, reducing our cash dividend or paying out
less than 100% of our taxable income. To the extent that we are able and/or choose to access
capital at a higher cost than we have experienced in recent years (reflected in higher interest
rates for debt financing or a lower stock price for equity financing) our earnings per share and
cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, the price of our common stock may fluctuate
significantly and/or decline in a high interest rate or volatile economic environment. We believe
that the lenders under our Credit Facility will fulfill their lending obligations thereunder, but
if economic conditions deteriorate there can be no assurance that the ability of those lenders to
fulfill their obligations would not be adversely impacted.

Insufficient cash flow could affect our debt financing and create refinancing risk.

We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow
will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. In this regard, we note
that in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, we are required to annually distribute
dividends generally equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, computed without regard to
the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain. This requirement limits the amount of our
cash flow available to meet required principal and interest payments. The principal outstanding
balance on a portion of our debt will not be fully amortized prior to its maturity. Although we
may be able to repay our debt by using our cash flows, we cannot assure you that we will have
sufficient cash flows available to make all required principal payments. Therefore, we may need to
refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may
not be able to refinance existing debt or that a refinancing will not be done on as favorable
terms, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations.

Rising interest rates could increase interest costs and could affect the market price of our
common stock.

We currently have, and may in the future incur, contractual variable interest rate debt, as well
as effective variable interest rate debt achieved through the use of qualifying hedging
relationships. In addition, we regularly seek access to both fixed and variable rate debt
financing to repay maturing debt and to finance our development and redevelopment activity.
Accordingly, if interest rates increase, our interest costs will also rise, unless we have made
arrangements that hedge the risk of rising interest rates. In addition, an increase in market
interest rates may lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a greater annual dividend yield,
which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


Bond financing and zoning compliance requirements could limit our income, restrict the use of
communities and cause favorable financing to become unavailable.

We have financed some of our apartment communities with obligations issued by local government
agencies because the interest paid to the holders of this debt is generally exempt from federal
income taxes and, therefore, the interest rate is generally more favorable to us. These
obligations are commonly referred to as “tax-exempt bonds” and generally must be secured by
mortgages on our communities. As a condition to obtaining tax-exempt financing, or on occasion as
a condition to obtaining favorable zoning in some jurisdictions, we will commit to make some of
the apartments in a community available to households whose income does not exceed certain
thresholds (e.g., 50% or 80% of area median income), or who meet other qualifying tests. As of
December 31, 2009, approximately 6.8% of our apartment homes at current operating communities were
under income limitations such as these. These commitments, which may run without expiration or
may expire after a period of time (such as 15 or 20 years) may limit our ability to raise rents
and, in consequence, can also adversely affect the value of the communities subject to these
restrictions.

In addition, some of our tax-exempt bond financing documents require us to obtain a guarantee from
a financial institution of payment of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds. The guarantee
may take the form of a letter of credit, surety bond, guarantee agreement or other additional
collateral. If the financial institution defaults in its guarantee obligations, or if we are
unable to renew the applicable guarantee or otherwise post satisfactory collateral, a default will
occur under the applicable tax-exempt bonds and the community could be foreclosed upon if we do
not redeem the bonds.

Risks related to indebtedness.

We have a Credit Facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Wachovia Bank, N.A., serving
together as syndication agent and as banks, Bank of America, N.A., serving as administrative
agent, swing lender, issuing bank and a bank, Morgan Stanley Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., and
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, serving collectively as documentation agent and as banks,
and a syndicate of other financial institutions, serving as banks. Our organizational documents
do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that may be incurred. Accordingly, subject
to compliance with outstanding debt covenants, we could incur more debt, resulting in an increased
risk of default on our obligations and an increase in debt service requirements that could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

The mortgages on those of our properties subject to secured debt, our Credit Facility and the
indenture under which a substantial portion of our debt was issued contain customary restrictions,
requirements and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating covenants including
maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these restrictions could
limit our flexibility. A default in these requirements, if uncured, could result in a requirement
that we repay indebtedness, which could severely affect our liquidity and increase our financing
costs. Refer to Item 7., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations,” for further discussion.

Failure to generate sufficient revenue or other liquidity needs could limit cash flow available
for distributions to stockholders.

A decrease in rental revenue or other liquidity needs, including the repayment of indebtedness or
funding of our development activities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay
distributions to our stockholders. Significant expenditures associated with each community such as
debt service payments, if any, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs are generally
not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from a community.

The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be
impacted by economic and other considerations.

The form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of the
Board of Directors and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital
requirements, the annual


distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board of Directors may
consider relevant. The Board of Directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time.

We may choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case stockholders may be required to pay
tax in excess of the cash they receive.

We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock, as we did in the fourth
quarter of 2008. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the
full amount of the dividend as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and
profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay
tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells
the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than
the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our
stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be
required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a
portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, the trading price of our stock
would experience downward pressure if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our
stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends. .

Debt financing may not be available and equity issuances could be dilutive to our stockholders.

Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt
and equity financing. Debt financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on favorable
terms. If we issue additional equity securities, the interests of existing stockholders could be
diluted.

Difficulty of selling apartment communities could limit flexibility.

Federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a community (unless we own it
through a subsidiary which will incur a taxable gain upon sale) if we are found to have held,
acquired or developed the community primarily with the intent to resell the community, and this
limitation may affect our ability to sell communities without adversely affecting returns to our
stockholders. In addition, real estate in our markets can at times be difficult to sell quickly
at prices we find acceptable. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets
may limit our ability to change or reduce the apartment communities in our portfolio promptly in
response to changes in economic or other conditions.

Acquisitions may not yield anticipated results.

Subject to the requirements related to Fund II, we may in the future acquire apartment communities
on a select basis. Our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following
risks:

•

an acquired property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment;
and

•

our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may
prove inaccurate.

Failure to succeed in new markets or in activities other than the development, ownership and
operation of residential rental communities may have adverse consequences.

We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our
existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. As noted above, we also own and lease
ancillary retail space when a retail component represents the best use of the space, as is often
the case with large urban in-fill developments. Also, as noted above in Item 1., “Business,”
through a taxable REIT subsidiary that is a joint venture partner, we have a 50% economic interest
in a for-sale development with a total estimated capital cost at completion of $23,621,000, on a
site adjacent to one of our communities. We may engage or have an interest in for-sale activity
in the future. Our historical experience in our existing markets in developing, owning and
operating rental communities does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new
markets, should we choose to enter them, or that we will be successful in other activities. We
may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to
accurately evaluate local apartment market conditions; an inability to obtain land for development
or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; an inability to hire and retain key
personnel; and


lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. We may be unsuccessful in
owning and leasing retail space at our communities or in developing real estate with the intent to
sell.

Land we hold with no current intent to develop may be subject to future impairment charges

We own parcels of land that we do not currently intend to develop. As discussed in Item 2.,
“Communities — Other Land and Real Estate Assets,” in the event that the fair market value of a
parcel changes such that the we determine that the carrying basis of the parcel reflected in our
financial statements is greater than the parcel’s then current fair value, less costs to dispose,
we would be subject to an impairment charge, which would reduce our net income.

Risks involved in real estate activity through joint ventures.

Instead of acquiring or developing apartment communities directly, at times we invest as a partner
or a co-venturer. Joint venture investments (including investments through partnerships or limited
liability companies) involve risks, including the possibility that our partner might become
insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital contributions when due; that we may be responsible
to our partner for indemnifiable losses; that our partner might at any time have business goals
which are inconsistent with ours; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or
withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. Frequently, we and our partner may
each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest,
or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a
transaction.

Risks associated with an investment in and management of discretionary investment funds

.

We formed Fund I which, through a wholly owned subsidiary, we manage as the general partner and in
which we have invested approximately $50,000,000 at December 31, 2009, representing our total
capital commitment, for an equity interest of approximately 15%. We have also formed Fund II
which, through a wholly owned subsidiary, we manage as the general partner and to which we have
committed $125,000,000, representing a current equity interest of approximately 31%. We have
invested approximately $17,500,000 at December 31, 2009 in Fund II. These Funds present risks,
including the following:

•

investors in Fund II may fail to make their capital contributions when due and, as a
result, Fund II may be unable to execute its investment objectives;

•

our subsidiaries that are the general partners of the Funds are generally liable, under
partnership law, for the debts and obligations of the respective Funds, subject to certain
exculpation and indemnification rights pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement
of the Funds;

•

investors in the Funds holding a majority of the partnership interests may remove us as
the general partner without cause, subject to our right to receive an additional nine
months of management fees after such removal and our right to acquire one of the
properties then held by the Funds;

•

while we have broad discretion to manage the Funds and make investment decisions on
behalf of the Funds, the investors or an advisory committee comprised of representatives
of the investors must approve certain matters, and as a result we may be unable to cause
the Funds to make certain investments or implement certain decisions that we consider
beneficial;

•

we can develop communities but have been generally prohibited from making acquisitions
of apartment communities outside of Fund II, which is our exclusive investment vehicle
until September 2011 or when 90% of Fund II’s capital is invested, subject to certain
exceptions; and

•

we may be liable and/or our status as a REIT may be jeopardized if either the Funds, or
the REITs through which a number of investors have invested in the Funds and which we
manage, fail to comply with various tax or other regulatory matters.

Risk of earthquake damage.

As further described in Item 2., “Communities — Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses,” many of
our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. We
cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels.
In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the
affected community, as well as anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also
continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the
community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial
condition and results of operations.

Insurance coverage for earthquakes can be costly due to limited industry capacity. As a result,
we may experience shortages in desired coverage levels if market conditions are such that
insurance is not available or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically
impractical.


A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

In addition to the earthquake insurance discussed above, we carry commercial general liability
insurance, property insurance and terrorism insurance with respect to our communities on terms we
consider commercially reasonable. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses
arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either
uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically impractical. If
an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could
lose our capital invested in a community, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such
community. We would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other
obligations related to the community. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we
would incur the cost of defense and settlement with, or court ordered damages to, that third
party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect
our business and our financial condition and results of operations.

We may incur costs and increased expenses to repair property damage resulting from inclement
weather.

Particularly in New England and the Midwest, we are exposed to risks associated with inclement
winter weather, including increased costs for the removal of snow and ice as well as from delays
in construction. In addition, inclement weather could increase the need for maintenance and repair
of our communities.

We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.

Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and
ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and
remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our
properties (including in some cases natural substances such as methane and radon gas) and may be
held liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for
property, personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs
incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may
exceed any insurance coverage we have for such events. The presence of such substances, or the
failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow
against, sell or rent the affected property.

In addition, some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the
contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the
contamination.

The development, construction and operation of our communities are subject to regulations and
permitting under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which regulate
matters including wetlands protection, storm water runoff and wastewater discharge. Noncompliance
with such laws and regulations may subject us to fines and penalties. We do not currently
anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of noncompliance with these
laws.

Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal,
encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials (“ACMs”) when such materials are in
poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws and the
common law may impose liability for release of ACMs and may allow third parties to seek recovery
from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs.
We are not aware that any ACMs were used in the construction of the communities we developed.
ACMs were, however, used in the construction of a number of the communities that we acquired. We
implement an operations and maintenance program at each of the communities at which ACMs are
detected. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result
of the presence of ACMs at our communities.

We are aware that some of our communities have lead paint and have implemented an operations and
maintenance program at each of those communities. We do not currently anticipate that we will
incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead paint at our communities.


All of our stabilized operating communities, and all of the communities that we are currently
developing, have been subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental assessment, which
generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling. These
assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some properties, have not revealed,
and we are not otherwise aware of, any environmental conditions that we believe would have a
material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of operations. In
connection with our ownership, operation and development of communities, from time to time we
undertake substantial remedial action in response to the presence of subsurface or other
contaminants, including contaminants in soil, groundwater and soil vapor beneath or affecting our
buildings. In some cases, an indemnity exists upon which we may be able to rely if environmental
liability arises from the contamination or remediation costs exceed estimates. There can be no
assurance, however, that all necessary remediation actions have been or will be undertaken at our
properties or that we will be indemnified, in full or at all, in the event that environmental
liability arises.

Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials,
particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of
time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to
remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years
that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or
other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate
ventilation and request or require that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture.
We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture
from apartment homes when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident
believe a health risk is presented. However, we cannot provide assurance that mold or excessive
moisture will be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises
at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to
contain or remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities
that may exceed any applicable insurance coverage. Our communities may also be affected by
potential vapor intrusion risks resulting from subsurface soil or groundwater contamination by
volatile organic compounds, which may require investigation or remediation and could subject the
Company to liability.

Additionally, we have occasionally been involved in developing, managing, leasing and operating
various properties for third parties. Consequently, we may be considered to have been an operator
of such properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other
potential costs which relate to the release or presence of hazardous or toxic substances. We are
not aware of any material environmental liabilities with respect to properties managed or
developed by us or our predecessors for such third parties.

We cannot assure you that:

•

the environmental assessments described above have identified all potential
environmental liabilities;

•

no prior owner created any material environmental condition not known to us or the
consultants who prepared the assessments;

•

no environmental liabilities have developed since the environmental assessments were
prepared;

•

the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of our communities, such as the
presence of underground storage tanks, will not affect the environmental condition of our
communities;

•

future uses or conditions, including, without limitation, changes in applicable
environmental laws and regulations, will not result in the imposition of environmental
liability; and

•

no environmental liabilities will arise at communities that we have sold for which we
may have liability.

Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would
significantly reduce funds available for distribution to stockholders.

If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be subject to federal
income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative
minimum tax). In addition, unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions,
we would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year in which we lose our qualification. The additional tax liability resulting from
the failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds
available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, we would no longer be required to
make distributions to


our stockholders. Thus, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair
our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock.

We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT, and we intend to operate in a manner
that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we are
qualified as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and
involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
our control. In addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or
court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with
respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax
consequences of this qualification.

Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our
income and property and on taxable income that we do not distribute to our shareholders. In
addition, we may engage in activities that are not customarily provided by a landlord through
taxable subsidiaries and will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the
income of those subsidiaries.

The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our
company is limited by certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and by Maryland law.

There are provisions in our charter and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a
proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in
their best interests. These provisions include the following:

Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock
without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights, including voting rights,
of any series of preferred stock issued. The Board of Directors may issue preferred stock without
stockholder approval, which could allow the Board to issue one or more classes or series of
preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or a change in control.

To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in
value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To maintain this qualification,
and/or to address other concerns about concentrations of ownership of our stock, our charter
generally prohibits ownership (directly, indirectly by virtue of the attribution provisions of the
Code, or beneficially as defined in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act) by any single
stockholder of more than 9.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or series of our
stock. In general, under our charter, pension plans and mutual funds may directly and beneficially
own up to 15% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of stock. Under our charter, our
Board of Directors may in its sole discretion waive or modify the ownership limit for one or more
persons, but is not required to do so even if such waiver would not affect our qualification as a
REIT. These ownership limits may prevent or delay a change in control and, as a result, could
adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium for their shares of common stock.

Our bylaws provide that the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares
entitled to be cast in the election of directors is required to elect a director. In a contested
election, if no nominee receives the vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares entitled
to be cast, the incumbent directors would remain in office. This requirement may prevent or delay
a change in control and, as a result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize
a premium for their shares of common stock.

As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with
statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions may occur, which may delay or prevent
offers to acquire us or increase the difficulty of completing any offers, even if they are in our
stockholders’ best interests. In addition, other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law permit the Board of Directors to make elections and to take actions without stockholder
approval (such as classifying our Board such that the entire Board is not up for reelection
annually) that, if made or taken, could have the effect of discouraging or delaying a change in
control.


ITEM 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2.

COMMUNITIES

Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities,
communities in various stages of development (“Development Communities”) and Development Rights (as
defined below). Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established
Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and Redevelopment Communities. The
following is a description of each category:

Current Communities

are categorized as Established, Other Stabilized,
Lease-Up, or Redevelopment according to the following attributes:

•

Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities)

are
consolidated communities where a comparison of operating results from
the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities
were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the
beginning of the prior year. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the
Established Communities are communities that are consolidated for
financial reporting purposes, had stabilized occupancy and operating
expenses as of January 1, 2008, are not conducting or planning to
conduct substantial redevelopment activities and are not held for sale
or planned for disposition within the current year. A community is
considered to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment
of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion
of development or redevelopment.

•

Other Stabilized Communities

includes all other completed communities
that we own or have a direct or indirect ownership interest in, and that
have stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized
Communities do not include communities that are conducting or planning
to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year.

•

Lease-Up Communities

are communities where construction has been
complete for less than one year and where physical occupancy has not
reached 95%.

•

Redevelopment Communities

are communities where substantial
redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current
year. For communities that we wholly own, redevelopment is considered
substantial when capital invested during the reconstruction effort is
expected to exceed the lesser of $5,000,000 or 10% of the community’s
acquisition cost. The definition of substantial redevelopment may
differ for communities owned through a joint venture arrangement, or by
one of the Funds.

Development Communities are communities that are under construction and for which a certificate of occupancy has not been received for the entire community.  These communities may be partially complete and operating.

Development Rights are development opportunities in the early phase of the development process for which we either have an option to acquire land or enter into a leasehold interest, for which we are the buyer under a long-term conditional contract to purchase land or where we own land to develop a new community.  We capitalize related pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new developments for which we currently believe future development is probable.


In addition, we own approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Alexandria,
Virginia, for our corporate office, with all other regional and administrative offices
leased under operating leases. In the third quarter of 2009 we entered into a ten-year
operating lease for approximately 50,744 square feet of office space in Arlington,
Virginia, which will serve as the location for our corporate office by the end of the
second quarter 2010. We are exploring alternatives to lease or sell the office space in
Alexandria, Virginia.

As of December 31, 2009, communities that we owned or held a direct or indirect interest in were
classified as follows:

Number of

Number of

communities

apartment homes

Current Communities

Established Communities:

New England


5,359

Metro NY/NJ


5,895

Mid-Atlantic/Midwest


6,088

Pacific Northwest


1,943

Northern California


4,432

Southern California


3,679

Total Established


27,396

Other Stabilized Communities:

New England


3,334

Metro NY/NJ


3,241

Mid-Atlantic/Midwest


3,616

Pacific Northwest


1,021

Northern California


2,989

Southern California


1,718

Total Other Stabilized


15,919

Lease-Up Communities


1,996

Redevelopment Communities


2,615

Total Current Communities


47,926

Development Communities


2,438

Development Rights


7,180

Our holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following pages.

Current Communities

Our Current Communities are primarily garden-style apartment communities consisting of two and
three-story buildings in landscaped settings. As of January 31, 2010, these include 113
garden-style (of which 15 are mixed communities and/or include town homes), 22 high-rise and 29
mid-rise apartment communities.

Our communities offer a variety of quality amenities and features, including:

•

gourmet kitchens;

•

lofts and vaulted ceilings;

•

walk-in closets;

•

fireplaces;

•

patios/decks; and

•

modern appliances.

Other features at various communities may include:


•

swimming pools;

•

fitness centers;

•

tennis courts; and

•

wi-fi lounges.

We also have an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to continually maintain and enhance our
communities and apartment homes. The aesthetic appeal of our communities and a service-oriented
property management team, focused on the specific needs of residents, enhances market appeal to
discriminating residents. We believe our mission of

Enhancing the Lives of our Residents

helps us
achieve higher rental rates and occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and operating
expenses.

Our Current Communities are located in the following geographic markets:

Number of

Number of apartment

Percentage of total

communities at

homes at

apartment homes at

1-31-09

1-31-10

1-31-09

1-31-10

1-31-09

1-31-10

New England



9,077

9,132

19.9

%

19.2

%

Boston, MA



6,460

6,683

14.2

%

14.0

%

Fairfield County, CT



2,617

2,449

5.7

%

5.2

%

Metro NY/NJ



9,353

10,255

20.4

%

21.5

%

Long Island, NY



1,732

1,732

3.8

%

3.6

%

Northern New Jersey



1,618

1,618

3.5

%

3.4

%

Central New Jersey



2,258

2,258

4.9

%

4.7

%

New York, NY



3,745

4,647

8.2

%

9.8

%

Mid-Atlantic/Midwest



9,213

9,409

20.2

%

19.8

%

Washington, DC



7,661

8,152

16.8

%

17.1

%

Chicago, IL



1,552

1,257

3.4

%

2.7

%

Pacific Northwest



2,746

2,964

6.0

%

6.2

%

Seattle, WA



2,746

2,964

6.0

%

6.2

%

Northern California



8,879

9,160

19.4

%

19.2

%

Oakland-East Bay, CA



2,394

2,833

5.2

%

5.9

%

San Francisco, CA



2,489

2,749

5.4

%

5.8

%

San Jose, CA



3,996

3,578

8.8

%

7.5

%

Southern California



6,460

6,711

14.1

%

14.1

%

Los Angeles, CA



3,345

3,345

7.3

%

7.0

%

Orange County, CA



1,896

2,147

4.1

%

4.5

%

San Diego, CA



1,219

1,219

2.7

%

2.6

%



45,728

47,631

100.0

%

100.0

%

We manage and operate substantially all of our Current Communities. During the year ended
December 31, 2009, we completed construction of 2,526 apartment homes in nine communities and sold
1,037 apartment homes in five communities. The average age of our Current Communities, on a
weighted average basis according to number of apartment homes, is 14.3 years. When adjusted to
reflect redevelopment activity, as if redevelopment were a new construction completion date, the
average age of our Current Communities is 9.2 years.

Of the Current Communities, as of January 31, 2010, we own:

•

a full fee simple, or absolute, ownership interest in 124 operating communities, ten of
which are on land subject to land leases expiring in October 2026, November 2028, July
2029, December 2034, July 2062, December 2073, April 2095, September 2105 and March 2142;

•

a general partnership interest in three partnerships that each own a fee simple interest
in an operating community;

•

a general partnership interest and an indirect limited partnership interest in both Fund
I and Fund II. Subsidiaries of Fund I own a fee simple interest in 19 operating
communities, and subsidiaries of Fund II own a fee simple interest in two operating
communities;

•

a general partnership interest in two partnerships structured as “DownREITs,” as
described more fully below, that own an aggregate of nine communities;


•

a membership interest in six limited liability companies that each hold a fee simple
interest in an operating community, two of which are on land subject to land leases
expiring in September 2044, and November 2089; and

•

a residual profits interest (with no ownership interest) in a limited liability company
to which an operating community was transferred upon completion of construction in the
second quarter of 2006.

For some communities, a land lease is used to support tax advantaged structures that ultimately
allow us to purchase the land upon lease expiration. We have options to purchase the underlying
land for the leases that expire in October 2026, November 2028, July 2029, December 2034, April
2095 and March 2142. We also hold, directly or through wholly owned subsidiaries, the full fee
simple ownership interest in the seven Development Communities, all of which are currently
consolidated for financial reporting purposes and two of which are subject to land leases expiring
in May 2105 and April 2106.

In our two partnerships structured as DownREITs, either AvalonBay or one of our wholly owned
subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose interest in
the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each DownREIT
partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution before any
distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the
DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to the holders of units of
limited partnership interests have approximated our current common stock dividend amount. The
holders of units of limited partnership interest have the right to present all or some of their
units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the applicable partnership agreement and
based on the fair value of our common stock. In lieu of a cash redemption by the partnership, we
may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one share of our common stock or for
such cash amount. As of January 31, 2010, there were 15,351 DownREIT partnership units
outstanding. The DownREIT partnerships are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

Average

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable

completion /

size

occupancy

economic occupancy

$ per

$ per

reporting

City and state

homes

area (Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

at 12/31/09



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

cost (5)

CURRENT COMMUNITIES

NEW ENGLAND

Boston, MA

Avalon at Lexington

Lexington, MA


237,855

16.1


1,201

91.9%

95.0

%

97.6

%

1,818

1.44

16,460

Avalon Oaks

Wilmington, MA


237,167

22.5


1,163

96.1%

97.1

%

95.6

%

1,467

1.23

21,290

Avalon Summit

Quincy, MA


224,974

8.0

1986/1996


91.4%

96.0

%

97.1

%

1,361

1.42

17,694

Avalon Essex

Peabody, MA


201,063

11.1


1,306

95.5%

96.3

%

96.3

%

1,572

1.16

22,023

Avalon at Prudential Center

Boston, MA


759,130

1.0

1968/1998


95.1%

93.8

%

97.5

%

3,005

2.90

157,333

Avalon Oaks West

Wilmington, MA


133,376

27.0


1,111

96.7%

96.3

%

93.9

%

1,355

1.17

16,984

Avalon Orchards

Marlborough, MA


179,227

23.0


1,149

97.4%

96.4

%

97.0

%

1,528

1.28

21,417

Avalon at Newton Highlands (8)

Newton, MA


339,537

7.0


1,155

94.9%

96.1

%

96.2

%

2,149

1.79

57,258

Avalon at The Pinehills I

Plymouth, MA


151,629

6.0


1,501

95.1%

95.0

%

95.9

%

1,909

1.21

20,008

Avalon at Crane Brook

Peabody, MA


433,778

20.0


1,121

95.4%

95.6

%

96.4

%

1,383

1.18

54,961

Essex Place

Peabody, MA


250,473

18.0



94.4%

93.9

%(2)

88.8

%(2)

1,235

1.32

(2)

35,411

Avalon at Bedford Center

Bedford, MA


159,704

38.0


1,149

92.8%

95.5

%

95.3

%

1,738

1.45

24,804

Avalon Chestnut Hill

Chestnut Hill, MA


271,899

4.7


1,333

95.1%

96.0

%

93.1

%

2,316

1.67

60,483

Avalon Shrewsbury

Shrewsbury, MA


274,780

25.5


1,095

92.0%

94.7

%

95.0

%

1,361

1.18

35,760

Avalon Danvers

Danvers, MA


512,991

75.0


1,185

96.1%

95.1

%

86.4

%

1,492

1.20

82,956

Avalon Woburn

Woburn, MA


486,091

56.0


1,090

95.5%

96.4

%

96.7

%

1,590

1.41

83,327

Avalon at Lexington Hills

Lexington, MA


511,454

23.0


1,322

95.6%

94.8

%

71.1

%(3)

1,877

1.35

86,984

Avalon Acton

Acton, MA


373,690

50.3



94.5%

95.0

%

59.2

%(3)

1,312

1.27

62,883

Avalon Sharon

Sharon, MA


178,628

27.2


1,145

98.1%

96.5

%

62.3

%(3)

1,618

1.36

30,221

Avalon at Center Place (11)

Providence, RI


233,910

1.2

1991/1997

1,040

93.3%

95.0

%

94.5

%

1,952

1.78

29,537

Avalon at Hingham Shipyard

Hingham, MA


298,981

12.9


1,272

97.5%

80.1

%(3)

17.1

%

1,735

1.09

(3)

54,221

Avalon Northborough I

Northborough, MA


183,000

14.0


1,123

97.6%

53.0

%(3)

N/A

3,626

1.71

(3)

25,030

Avalon Blue Hills

Randolph, MA


307,085

23.1


1,113

82.3%

42.7

%(3)

N/A

7,314

2.80

(3)

45,316

Fairfield-New Haven, CT

Avalon Gates

Trumbull, CT


389,047

37.0


1,144

95.6%

96.9

%

96.5

%

1,618

1.37

37,712

Avalon Glen

Stamford, CT


265,940

4.1


1,117

95.8%

95.2

%

97.1

%

1,892

1.61

32,566

Avalon Springs

Wilton, CT


160,159

12.0


1,570

95.1%

95.2

%

94.2

%

2,825

1.71

17,299

Avalon Valley

Danbury, CT


303,193

17.1


1,131

98.9%

96.4

%

95.7

%

1,616

1.38

26,443

Avalon on Stamford Harbor

Stamford, CT


337,572

12.1


1,045

93.8%

94.8

%

96.5

%

2,421

2.19

62,969

Avalon New Canaan (9)

New Canaan, CT


145,118

9.1


1,395

97.1%

94.2

%

96.1

%

2,648

1.79

24,469

Avalon at Greyrock Place

Stamford, CT


334,381

3.0


1,093

95.8%

95.3

%

96.3

%

2,097

1.83

70,844

Avalon Danbury

Danbury, CT


238,952

36.0


1,021

97.4%

95.6

%

96.0

%

1,584

1.48

35,621

Avalon Darien

Darien, CT


242,533

32.0


1,283

94.7%

93.7

%

94.7

%

2,433

1.78

41,598

Avalon Milford I

Milford, CT


230,246

22.0



97.2%

97.9

%

96.2

%

1,441

1.51

31,501

Avalon Huntington

Shelton, CT


145,573

7.1


1,470

91.9%

86.8

%

17.0

%(3)

2,029

1.20

25,214


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

Average

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable

completion /

size

occupancy

economic occupancy

$ per

$ per

reporting

City and state

homes

area (Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

at 12/31/09



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

cost (5)

METRO NY/NJ

Long Island, NY

Avalon Commons

Smithtown, NY


385,290

20.6


1,235

96.2%

94.5

%

95.0

%

2,060

1.58

34,105

Avalon Towers

Long Beach, NY


135,036

1.3

1990/1995

1,239

94.5%

96.0

%

97.4

%

3,551

2.75

21,594

Avalon Court

Melville, NY


601,342

35.4

1997/2000

1,217

97.4%

95.2

%

94.2

%

2,375

1.86

60,411

Avalon at Glen Cove South (11)

Glen Cove, NY


262,285

4.0


1,025

93.8%

95.1

%

95.8

%

2,265

2.10

68,152

Avalon Pines I & II

Coram, NY


547,981

74.0

2005/2006

1,218

96.2%

94.7

%

95.8

%

1,958

1.52

71,712

Avalon at Glen Cove North (11)

Glen Cove, NY


100,851

1.3



97.3%

95.3

%

96.8

%

2,076

2.18

39,944

Northern New Jersey

Avalon Cove

Jersey City, NJ


640,467

11.0


1,271

96.4%

96.1

%

96.1

%

2,719

2.06

93,581

Avalon at Edgewater

Edgewater, NJ


438,670

7.6


1,075

97.1%

95.8

%

96.3

%

2,290

2.04

75,438

Avalon at Florham Park

Florham Park, NJ


330,410

41.9


1,224

95.6%

96.3

%

95.8

%

2,576

2.03

42,115

Avalon Lyndhurst

Lyndhurst, NJ


352,462

5.8


1,075

93.9%

96.1

%

94.9

%

2,023

1.81

80,984

Central New Jersey

Avalon Run
(7) & Run East (8)

Lawrenceville, NJ


718,101

36.1

1994/1996

1,136

95.7%

95.7

%

95.1

%

1,484

1.25

76,725

Avalon Watch

West Windsor, NJ


496,141

64.4



93.8%

96.0

%(2)

96.0

%

1,393

1.38

(2)

36,111

Avalon at Freehold

Freehold, NJ


317,416

40.3


1,072

94.6%

96.2

%

96.2

%

1,708

1.53

34,826

Avalon Run East II

Lawrenceville, NJ


341,292

70.5


1,094

97.1%

95.5

%

96.0

%

1,753

1.53

52,238

Avalon at Tinton Falls

Tinton Falls, NJ


240,747

35.0


1,115

96.3%

95.9

%

56.3

%(3)

1,756

1.51

41,045

New York, NY

Avalon Gardens

Nanuet, NY


617,992

62.5


1,226

96.2%

96.9

%

97.0

%

2,082

1.64

55,579

Avalon Green

Elmsford, NY


115,038

16.9


1,096

96.2%

97.3

%

97.4

%

2,327

2.07

13,951

Avalon Willow

Mamaroneck, NY


240,459

4.0


1,059

96.0%

97.1

%

98.0

%

2,188

2.01

47,603

The Avalon

Bronxville, NY


148,335

1.5


1,349

97.3%

96.1

%

97.7

%

3,660

2.61

31,579

Avalon Riverview I (11)

Long Island City, NY


352,988

1.0



94.9%

96.8

%

96.8

%

3,139

3.20

95,234

Avalon Bowery Place I

New York, NY


162,000

1.1



97.0%

95.5

%

96.2

%

4,037

4.90

92,810

Avalon Riverview North (11)

Long Island City, NY


519,092

1.8



93.9%

96.2

%

92.2

%(3)

2,746

3.06

169,329

Avalon on
the Sound (11)

New Rochelle, NY


415,369

2.4


1,008

96.4%

96.7

%

96.2

%

2,204

2.11

117,354

Avalon on the Sound East (11)

New Rochelle, NY


622,999

1.7


1,060

94.9%

96.1

%

79.6

%(3)

2,270

2.06

179,654

Avalon Bowery Place II

New York, NY


73,624

1.1



96.0%

94.1

%

97.1

%

3,554

4.09

55,766

Avalon White Plains

White Plains, NY


379,555

0.1



86.0%

54.3

%(3)

14.2

%

2,477

1.44

(3)

150,431

Avalon Morningside Park (11)

New York, NY


243,157

0.8



93.2%

89.5

%(3)

25.5

%

2,857

3.10

(3)

109,654

Avalon Charles Pond

Coram, NY


176,000

39.0



96.5%

50.5

%(3)

N/A

4,382

2.51

(3)

48,078

MID-ATLANTIC/MIDWEST

Baltimore, MD

Avalon at
Fairway Hills I, II, & III (7)

Columbia, MD


724,027

59.0

1987/1996

1,006

95.4%

96.3

%

94.6

%

1,335

1.28

52,948

Avalon Symphony Woods (SGlen)

Columbia, MD


179,880

10.0


1,022

94.9%

92.8

%(2)

88.8

%(2)

1,328

1.21

(2)

13,828

Avalon Symphony Woods (SGate)

Columbia, MD


214,670

12.7

1986/2006


98.2%

92.0

%(2)

90.3

%(2)

1,257

1.16

(2)

41,752

Washington, DC

Avalon at Foxhall

Washington, DC


297,876

2.7



92.9%

95.3

%

96.3

%

2,307

2.27

45,086

Avalon at Gallery Place I

Washington, DC


184,157

0.5



96.1%

96.8

%

96.7

%

2,577

2.75

49,045

Avalon at Decoverly

Rockville, MD


551,292

34.8

1991/1995/2007


94.9%

95.7

%

96.2

%

1,487

1.46

63,524

Avalon Fields I

Gaithersburg, MD


197,280

5.0


1,028

95.8%

97.9

%

96.7

%

1,407

1.34

14,541

Avalon Fields II

Gaithersburg, MD


100,268

5.0


1,044

96.9%

96.3

%

97.0

%

1,584

1.46

8,333

Avalon Knoll

Germantown, MD


290,544

26.7



96.3%

96.0

%

96.5

%

1,236

1.23

9,003

Avalon at Rock Spring (9) (11)

North Bethesda, MD


387,884

10.2


1,005

96.9%

97.5

%

96.8

%

1,779

1.73

82,586


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

Average

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable

completion /

size

occupancy

economic occupancy

$ per

$ per

reporting

City and state

homes

area (Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

at 12/31/09



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

cost (5)

Avalon at Grosvenor Station

North Bethesda, MD


472,001

10.0



94.8%

96.9

%

97.0

%

1,798

1.84

82,452

Avalon at Traville (8)

North Potomac, MD


575,529

47.9


1,107

95.6%

96.5

%

97.0

%

1,777

1.55

70,102

Avalon Fair Lakes

Fairfax, VA


354,945

24.3

1989/1996


95.5%

95.7

%

93.3%

(2)

1,382

1.57

37,886

Avalon at Ballston — Washington
Towers

Arlington, VA


294,954

4.1



95.1%

95.8

%

96.2

%

1,809

2.02

39,215

Avalon at Cameron Court

Alexandria, VA


478,068

16.0


1,039

96.1%

96.4

%

96.2

%

1,878

1.74

44,582

Avalon at Providence Park

Fairfax, VA


148,282

9.3

1988/1997

1,052

97.9%

96.3

%

96.7

%

1,558

1.43

11,942

Avalon Crescent

McLean, VA


613,426

19.1


1,099

97.0%

97.0

%

96.5

%

1,850

1.63

57,921

Avalon at Arlington Square

Arlington, VA


628,433

20.1



95.1%

96.6

%

96.8

%

1,876

2.43

113,679

Chicago, IL

Avalon at
Danada Farms (8)

Wheaton, IL


351,206

19.2


1,191

95.3%

96.5

%

96.2

%

1,417

1.15

40,030

Avalon at Stratford Green (8)

Bloomingdale, IL


237,124

12.7


1,235

95.3%

96.0

%

96.7

%

1,425

1.11

22,253

Avalon Arlington Heights

Arlington Heights, IL


352,236

2.8

1987/2000


93.6%

95.7

%

96.2

%

1,495

1.66

56,986

PACIFIC NORTHWEST

Seattle, WA

Avalon Redmond Place

Redmond, WA


219,075

8.4

1991/1997


94.1%

92.0

%

86.4

%(2)

1,358

1.27

31,922

Avalon at Bear Creek

Redmond, WA


296,530

22.2


1,123

91.7%

94.4

%

96.6

%

1,380

1.16

36,283

Avalon Bellevue

Bellevue, WA


170,965

1.7



94.0%

93.3

%

94.8

%

1,555

1.70

31,093

Avalon RockMeadow (8)

Bothell, WA


246,683

11.2


1,197

91.8%

94.4

%

95.2

%

1,260

0.99

25,032

Avalon WildReed (8)

Everett, WA


266,580

23.0


1,139

95.7%

95.3

%

95.8

%

1,100

0.92

23,132

Avalon HighGrove (8)

Everett, WA


428,962

19.0


1,097

94.6%

93.9

%

94.8

%

1,108

0.95

39,942

Avalon ParcSquare (8)

Redmond, WA


131,706

2.0


1,062

94.4%

93.0

%

96.9

%

1,611

1.41

19,542

Avalon Brandemoor (8)

Lynwood, WA


465,257

27.0


1,097

95.1%

95.1

%

95.1

%

1,162

1.01

45,691

Avalon Belltown

Seattle, WA


95,201

0.7



95.0%

93.1

%

95.3

%

1,757

1.72

18,499

Avalon Meydenbauer

Bellevue, WA


333,502

3.6



96.2%

92.2

%

48.1

%(3)

1,616

1.65

89,365

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Oakland-East Bay, CA

Avalon Fremont

Fremont, CA


386,277

14.3


1,254

96.8%

97.1

%

96.3

%

1,677

1.30

57,311

Avalon Dublin

Dublin, CA


179,004

13.0

1989/1997


95.1%

96.7

%

96.7

%

1,473

1.62

28,694

Avalon Pleasanton

Pleasanton, CA


366,062

14.7

1988/1994


94.5%

95.3

%(2)

96.8

%

1,371

1.63

(2)

66,026

Avalon at Union Square

Union City, CA


150,320

8.5

1973/1996


92.8%

95.9

%

96.7

%

1,243

1.65

22,924

Waterford

Hayward, CA


452,043

11.1

1985/1986


90.8%

91.8

%

93.9

%

1,250

1.38

62,190

Avalon at Willow Creek

Fremont, CA


191,935

13.5

1985/1994


96.2%

96.8

%(2)

97.0

%

1,457

1.73

(2)

36,493

Avalon at Dublin Station

Dublin, CA


300,760

4.7



92.8%

94.1

%

67.6

%(3)

1,691

1.61

84,380

Avalon Union City

Union City, CA


428,730

6.0



85.7%

42.5

%(3)

N/A

2,120

0.92

(3)

118,740

San Francisco, CA

Avalon at Cedar Ridge

Daly City, CA


141,411

7.0

1972/1997


90.3%

95.5

%(2)

97.0

%

1,621

2.13

(2)

29,141

Avalon at Nob Hill

San Francisco, CA


108,712

1.4

1990/1995


97.8%

96.0

%

96.8

%

1,921

3.14

28,192

Crowne Ridge

San Rafael, CA


222,685

21.9

1973/1996


96.9%

95.6

%

96.8

%

1,479

1.61

33,100

Avalon Foster City

Foster City, CA


222,364

11.0

1973/1994


94.1%

95.0

%

97.1

%

1,585

1.95

44,191

Avalon Towers by the Bay

San Francisco, CA


285,881

1.0


1,259

94.3%

96.1

%

97.5

%

3,025

2.31

67,055

Avalon Pacifica

Pacifica, CA


186,800

21.9

1971/1995


94.1%

95.1

%

97.0

%

1,650

1.85

32,481

Avalon Sunset Towers

San Francisco, CA


171,854

16.0

1961/1996


94.2%

94.2

%

96.3

%

1,975

2.63

28,890

Avalon at Diamond Heights

San Francisco, CA


123,566

3.0

1972/1994


90.3%

93.2

% (2)

95.9

% (2)

1,901

2.21

(2)

28,933

Avalon at Mission Bay North

San Francisco, CA


240,368

1.4



93.6%

96.3

%

96.0

%

3,122

3.13

93,148

Avalon at Mission Bay III

San Francisco, CA


261,361

1.5


1,005

85.0%

46.3

%(3)

N/A

3,078

1.42

(3)

146,913


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

Average

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable

completion /

size

occupancy

economic occupancy

$ per

reporting

City and state

homes

area (Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

at 12/31/09



Apt (4)

$ per Sq. Ft.

cost (5)

San Jose, CA

Avalon Campbell

Campbell, CA


329,816

10.8



94.5%

94.5

%

96.9

%

1,686

1.68

60,672

CountryBrook

San Jose, CA


322,992

14.0

1985/1996


96.9%

94.9

%

95.9

%

1,489

1.58

52,874

Avalon on the Alameda

San Jose, CA


320,464

8.9


1,051

94.1%

96.7

%

97.3

%

2,037

1.87

56,939

Avalon Rosewalk

San Jose, CA


459,162

16.6

1997/1999

1,007

94.5%

95.8

%

96.4

%

1,699

1.62

79,972

Avalon Silicon Valley

Sunnyvale, CA


659,729

13.6



95.4%

96.8

%

96.1

%

1,955

2.04

123,527

Avalon Mountain View (9)

Mountain View, CA


211,552

10.5



94.8%

90.6

%(2)

88.0

%(2)

1,859

1.97

(2)

58,883

Avalon at Creekside

Mountain View, CA


215,680

13.0

1962/1997


96.3%

97.0

%

97.6

%

1,515

2.00

43,657

Avalon at Cahill Park

San Jose, CA


221,933

3.8


1,018

95.4%

96.7

%

97.6

%

2,020

1.92

52,747

Avalon Towers on the Peninsula

Mountain View, CA


218,392

1.9


1,035

95.7%

97.0

%

97.3

%

2,639

2.47

65,811

Countrybrook II

San Jose, CA


64,554

3.6



100.0%

95.2

%

96.8

%

1,442

1.70

18,005

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Orange County, CA

Avalon Newport

Costa Mesa, CA


122,415

6.6

1956/1996


95.9%

95.3

%

96.3

%

1,644

1.86

10,441

Avalon Mission Viejo

Mission Viejo, CA


124,770

7.8

1984/1996


95.2%

93.5

%

95.4

%

1,270

1.58

14,120

Avalon at South Coast

Costa Mesa, CA


210,922

8.0

1973/1996


96.9%

94.0

%

94.4

%

1,377

1.58

26,027

Avalon Santa Margarita

Rancho Santa Margarita, CA


229,593

20.0

1990/1997


95.4%

93.1

%

96.7

%

1,333

1.63

24,527

Avalon at Pacific Bay

Huntington Beach, CA


268,720

9.7

1971/1997


94.4%

94.2

%

96.1

%

1,512

1.61

33,233

Avalon Warner Place

Canoga Park, CA


186,402

3.3



93.3%

94.1

%

57.2

%(3)

1,583

1.68

52,742

Avalon Anaheim Stadium

Anaheim, CA


302,480

3.5


1,205

95.6%

49.2

%(3)

4.8

%

2,267

0.93

(3)

97,813

San Diego, CA

Avalon at Mission Bay

San Diego, CA


402,320

12.9

1969/1997


95.2%

94.6

%

95.0

%

1,433

1.90

66,886

Avalon at Mission Ridge

San Diego, CA


208,125

4.0

1960/1997

1,041

95.0%

92.3

%

94.9

%

1,652

1.46

22,666

Avalon at Cortez Hill

San Diego, CA


227,373

1.4

1973/1998


94.9%

93.4

%

96.4

%

1,506

1.82

34,745

Avalon Fashion Valley

San Diego, CA


186,766

10.0


1,160

92.6%

68.4

%

15.3

%(3)

2,380

1.24

64,540

Los Angeles, CA

Avalon at Media Center

Burbank, CA


532,264

14.1

1961/1997


95.2%

94.5

%

95.6

%

1,440

1.91

77,725

Avalon Woodland Hills

Woodland Hills, CA


597,871

18.2

1989/1997


89.6%

83.9

%(2)

76.9

%(2)

1,500

1.40

(2)

107,901

Avalon at Warner Center

Woodland Hills, CA


195,224

7.0

1979/1998


96.5%

94.2

%

94.7

%

1,554

1.70

27,564

Avalon Glendale (11)

Burbank, CA


241,714

5.1


1,084

96.4%

94.5

%

94.2

%

2,271

1.98

41,567

Avalon Burbank

Burbank, CA


360,587

6.9

1988/2002


88.0%

88.1

%(2)

96.7

%(2)

1,878

1.84

(2)

91,653

Avalon Camarillo

Camarillo, CA


233,267

10.0



95.2%

93.6

%

94.5

%

1,513

1.51

48,738

Avalon Wilshire

Los Angeles, CA


125,193

1.6


1,018

94.3%

94.1

%

94.7

%

2,582

2.39

46,876

Avalon Encino

Los Angeles, CA


131,220

2.0


1,002

96.2%

76.9

%

15.7

%(3)

2,475

1.79

61,815


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

Average

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable

completion /

size

occupancy

economic occupancy

$ per

reporting

City and state

homes

area (Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

at 12/31/09



Apt (4)

$ per Sq. Ft.

cost (5)

DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES

Avalon Irvine

Irvine, CA


243,157

4.5

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

76,104

Avalon Walnut Creek (9) (11)

Walnut Creek, CA


448,384

5.3

N/A

1,063

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

98,820

Avalon Norwalk

Norwalk, CT


312,018

4.5

N/A

1,003

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

50,771

Avalon Fort Greene

Brooklyn, NY


498,632

1.0

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

259,672

Avalon Towers Bellevue (11)

Bellevue, WA


330,194

1.5

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

73,799

Avalon Northborough II

Northborough, MA


271,150

17.7

N/A

1,238

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

18,901

Avalon at West Long Branch

West Long Branch, NJ


192,357

10.4

N/A

1,069

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

2,219

UNCONSOLIDATED COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Mission Bay North II (9)

San Francisco, CA


291,556

1.5



92.3%

95.2

%

95.0

%

2,986

3.05

N/A

Avalon Del Rey (9)

Los Angeles, CA


284,387

5.0



94.2%

94.3

%

92.7

%

1,972

2.02

N/A

Avalon Chrystie Place I (9)(11)

New York, NY


266,940

1.5



99.0%

95.5

%

96.9

%

4,138

5.34

N/A

Avalon Juanita Village (10)

Kirkland, WA


209,335

2.9



91.5%

91.6

%

95.3

%

1,661

1.53

N/A

Avalon at Redondo Beach (6)

Redondo Beach, CA


86,075

1.2

1971/2004


97.1%

93.3

%

94.3

%

1,906

2.17

N/A

Avalon Sunset (6)

Los Angeles, CA


71,037

0.8

1987/2005


97.6%

93.4

%

96.5

%

1,863

2.01

N/A

Civic Center (6)

Norwalk, CA


174,378

8.7

1987/2005


96.9%

92.5

%

93.6

%

1,584

1.61

N/A

Avalon Paseo Place (6)

Fremont, CA


106,249

7.0

1987/2005


96.3%

96.9

%

94.8

% (2)

1,453

1.77

N/A

Avalon Yerba Buena (6)

San Francisco, CA


159,604

0.9

2000/2006


93.1%

95.7

%

97.1

%

2,784

2.67

N/A

The Springs (6)

Corona, CA


241,440

13.3

1987/2006


95.3%

86.0

%

87.7

%

1,017

1.16

N/A

Avalon Skyway (6)

San Jose,CA


287,918

18.4

1994/2007


98.6%

96.7

%

97.7

%

1,460

1.71

N/A

South Hills Apartments (6)

West Covina, CA


107,150

5.3

1966/2007

1,261

94.1%

94.6

%

88.0

% (2)

1,636

1.23

N/A

Avalon Lakeside (6)

Wheaton, IL


162,821

12.4



93.1%

96.0

%

96.2

%


1.18

N/A

Avalon at Poplar Creek (6)

Schaumburg, IL


178,490

12.8

1986/2005


95.9%

95.8

%

91.3

%

1,159

1.22

N/A

Avalon Lombard (6)

Schaumburg, IL


201,924

13.2

1988/2006


95.7%

97.2

%

96.2

% (2)

1,069

1.32

N/A

Middlesex Crossing (6)

Billerica, MA


188,915

13.0



95.6%

96.8

%

96.0

%

1,250

1.61

N/A

Weymouth Place (6)

Weymouth, MA


154,957

7.7

1971/2007


99.1%

92.6

%

95.8

% (2)

1,124

1.42

N/A

Avalon Columbia (6)

Columbia, MD


180,452

11.3

1989/2004

1,061

96.5%

96.8

%

96.3

%

1,479

1.35

N/A

Avalon Cedar Place (6)

Columbia, MD


152,923

11.4

1972/2006


94.2%

97.0

%

86.8

% (2)

1,211

1.20

N/A

Avalon Centerpoint (6)

Baltimore,MD


312,356

6.9

2005/2007


91.9%

93.8

%

90.5

%

1,439

1.70

N/A

Avalon at Aberdeen Station (6)

Aberdeen, NJ


414,585

16.8

2002/2006

1,430

94.5%

96.4

%

96.5

%

1,759

1.19

N/A

Avalon at Rutherford Station (6)

East Rutherford, NJ


131,937

1.5

2005/2007

1,222

100.0%

96.6

%

95.2

%

2,222

1.76

N/A

Avalon Crystal Hill (6)

Pomona, NY


215,203

12.1

2001/2007

1,281

96.5%

96.6

%

95.2

%

1,982

1.49

N/A

The Hermitage (12)

Fairfax, VA


165,948

13.5



95.3%

94.2

% (3)

N/A

1,355

3.78

(3)

N/A

Avalon Bellevue Park (12)

Bellevue, WA


373,843

1.8


1,699

85.0%

88.9

% (3)

N/A

1,339

0.70

(3)

N/A


(1)

We own a fee simple interest in the communities listed, excepted as noted below.

(2)

Represents a community that was under redevelopment during the year, which could result in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.

(3)

Represents a community that completed development or was purchased during the year, which could result in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.

(4)

Represents the average rental revenue per occupied apartment home.

(5)

Costs are presented in accordance with GAAP. For current Development Communities, cost represents total costs incurred through December 31, 2009.
Financial reporting costs are excluded for unconsolidated communities, see Note 6, “Investments in Real Estate Entities.”

(6)

We own a 15.2% combined general partnership and indirect limited partner equity interest in this community.

(7)

We own a general partnership interest in a partnership that owns a fee simple interest in this community.

(8)

We own a general partnership interest in a partnership structured as a DownREIT that owns this community.

(9)

We own a membership interest in a limited liability company that holds a fee simple interest in this community.

(10)

This community was transferred to a joint venture entity upon completion of development. We do not hold an equity interest in the entity, but retain a promoted residual interest in the profits of the entity.
We receive a property management fee for this community.

(11)

Community is located on land subject to a land lease.

(12)

We own a 31.3% combined general partnership and indirect limited partner equity interest in this community.


Development Communities

As of December 31, 2009, we had seven Development Communities under construction. We expect these
Development Communities, when completed, to add a total of 2,438 apartment homes to our portfolio
for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition costs, of approximately $813,300,000. You
should carefully review Item 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated with
development activity and our discussion under Item 7., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for further discussion of our 2010 outlook for
development activity.

The following table presents a summary of the Development Communities. We hold a direct or
indirect fee simple ownership interest in these communities except where noted.

Total

Number of

capitalized

apartment

cost (1)

Construction

Initial

Estimated

Estimated

homes

($ millions)

start

occupancy (2)

completion

stabilization (3)

1. Avalon Irvine


$

77.4

Q4 2007

Q2 2009

Q1 2010

Q3 2010

Irvine, CA

2. Avalon Fort Greene


306.8

Q4 2007

Q4 2009

Q1 2011

Q3 2011

New York, NY

3. Avalon Walnut Creek (4)


151.7

Q3 2008

Q2 2010

Q1 2011

Q3 2011

Walnut Creek, CA

4. Avalon Norwalk


86.4

Q3 2008

Q2 2010

Q2 2011

Q4 2011

Norwalk, CT

5. Avalon Towers Bellevue


126.1

Q4 2008

Q2 2010

Q2 2011

Q4 2011

Bellevue, WA

6. Avalon Northborough II


36.3

Q4 2009

Q2 2010

Q1 2011

Q3 2011

Northborough, MA

7. Avalon at West Long Branch


28.6

Q4 2009

Q3 2010

Q1 2011

Q3 2011

West Long Branch, NJ

Total

2,438

$

813.3

(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually
incurred to develop the respective Development Community, determined in accordance with GAAP,
including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest
and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory
fees. Total capitalized cost for communities identified as having joint venture ownership,
either during construction or upon construction completion, represents the total projected
joint venture contribution amount.

(2)

Future initial occupancy dates are estimates. There can be no assurance that we will pursue
to completion any or all of these proposed developments.

(3)

Stabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% or greater physical
occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development.

(4)

This community is being financed in part by third party, tax-exempt debt.

Redevelopment Communities

As of December 31, 2009, we had seven consolidated communities under redevelopment. We expect the
total capitalized cost to redevelop these communities to be $118,400,000, excluding costs prior to
redevelopment. We have found that the cost to redevelop an existing apartment community is more
difficult to budget and estimate than the cost to develop a new community. Accordingly, we expect
that actual costs may vary from our budget by a wider range than for a new development community.
We cannot assure you that we will meet our schedule for reconstruction completion or restabilized
operations, or that we will meet our budgeted costs, either individually or in the aggregate. We
anticipate increasing our redevelopment activity related to communities owned by the Funds, as well
as communities in our current operating portfolio. You should carefully review Item 1a., “Risk
Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated with redevelopment activity.


The following presents a summary of these Redevelopment Communities:

Total cost

Number of

($ millions)

Estimated

Estimated

apartment

Pre-redevelopment

Total capitalized

Reconstruction

reconstruction

restabilized

homes

cost

cost (1)

start

completion

operations (2)

1. Avalon Woodland Hills


$

72.1

$

110.6

Q4 2007

Q2 2010

Q4 2010

Woodland Hills, CA

2. Avalon at Diamond Heights


25.3

30.6

Q4 2007

Q4 2010

Q2 2011

San Francisco, CA

3. Avalon Burbank


71.0

94.4

Q3 2008

Q3 2010

Q1 2011

Burbank, CA

4. Avalon Pleasanton


63.0

80.9

Q2 2009

Q4 2011

Q2 2012

Pleasanton, CA

5. Avalon Watch


30.2

49.9

Q2 2009

Q1 2012

Q3 2012

West Windsor, NJ

6. Avalon at Cedar Ridge


27.7

33.8

Q3 2009

Q1 2011

Q3 2011

Daly City, CA

7. Avalon at Willow creek


36.5

44.0

Q4 2009

Q1 2011

Q3 2011

Fremont, CA

Total

2,615

$

325.8

$

444.2

(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred
to redevelop the respective Redevelopment Community, including land acquisition costs,
construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits,
professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, all as determined
in accordance with GAAP.

(2)

Restabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% or greater
physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of redevelopment.

Development Rights

As of December 31, 2009, we are evaluating the future development of 28 new apartment communities
on land that is either owned by us, under contract, subject to a leasehold interest or for which we
hold either a purchase or lease option. We generally prefer to hold Development Rights through
options to acquire land, although for 14 of the Development Rights we currently own the land on
which a community would be built if we proceeded with development. The Development Rights range
from those beginning design and architectural planning to those that have completed site plans and
drawings and can begin construction almost immediately. We estimate that the successful completion
of all of these communities would ultimately add 7,180 apartment homes to our portfolio.
Substantially all of these apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the
communities we currently own. At December 31, 2009, there were cumulative capitalized costs
(including legal fees, design fees and related overhead costs, but excluding land costs) of
$87,763,000 relating to Development Rights. In addition, land costs related to the pursuit of
Development Rights (consisting of original land and additional carrying costs) of
$237,095,000 are reflected as land held for development as of December 31, 2009 on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report. In
addition, we control certain land that is held for development under a 99-year land lease
agreement, with future minimum obligations of approximately $6,500,000 per year.

The properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due diligence and
regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the Development Rights to invest in, if
any, or to continue to pursue once an investment in a Development Right is made, are business
judgments that we make after we perform financial, demographic and other analyses. In the event
that we do not proceed with a Development Right, we generally would not recover capitalized costs
incurred in the pursuit of those communities, unless we were to recover amounts in connection with
the sale of land; however, we cannot guarantee a recovery. Initial development costs incurred for
pursuits for which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In
addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future development no longer
probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are charged to expense. During 2009, we incurred a
charge of approximately $5,842,000 of pre-development cost for development rights that were not yet
probable of future development at the


time incurred, or for pursuits that we determined would not
likely be developed. We also incurred a charge of $21,152,000 on three land parcels that were held
for development that we do not currently intend to develop.

You should carefully review Section 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated
with Development Rights.

The table below presents a summary of these Development Rights:

Total

Estimated

capitalized

number

cost

Location

of homes

($ millions) (1)

1.

Rockville Centre, NY Phase I


$


2.

Greenburgh, NY Phase II



3.

Seattle, WA



4.

Lynnwood, WA Phase II



5.

Plymouth, MA Phase II



6.

Wilton, CT



7.

Wood-Ridge, NJ Phase I



8.

San Francisco, CA



9.

New York, NY



10.

Boston, MA



11.

Rockville Centre, NY Phase II



12.

Shelton, CT



13.

Roselle Park, NJ



14.

Garden City, NY



15.

Wood-Ridge, NJ Phase II



16.

Brooklyn, NY



17.

Rockville, MD



18.

Andover, MA



19.

Huntington Station, NY



20.

North Bergen, NJ



21.

Dublin, CA Phase II



22.

Seattle, WA II



23.

Cohasset, MA



24.

Stratford, CT



25.

Tysons Corner, VA



26.

Greenburgh, NY Phase III



27.

Yaphank, NY



28.

Hackensack, NJ



Total

7,180

$

2,258

(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred to date (if any) and
projected to be incurred to develop the respective community, determined in accordance with
GAAP, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized
interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other
regulatory fees.


Land Acquisitions

We select land for development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the
cost and the risks of development. During 2009, we acquired the following two land parcels for
development for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $11,951,000:

Estimated

Total

number

capitalized

Gross

of apartment

cost (1)

Date

acres

homes

($ millions)

acquired

1. Avalon Northborough II

8.3


$


February 2009

Northborough, MA

2. Avalon Willoughby West (2)

4.2



September 2009

New York, NY

Total

12.5

1,080

$


(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred to date (if any) and projected
to be incurred to develop the respective community, determined in accordance with GAAP,
including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest
and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory
fees.

(2)

This represents a portion of the aggregate land purchase that we will transact under a
non-cancelable commitment related to this expected development, as discussed in Note 8,
“Commitments and Contingencies,” of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8
of this report.

Other Land and Real Estate Assets

At December 31, 2009 we own land that we do not currently intend to develop with an aggregate
carrying basis under GAAP of $96,356,000. We believe that the current carrying basis of these
assets is such that there is no charge for impairment, or further charge in the case of assets
previously impaired. However we may be subject to the recognition of further impairment charges in
the event that there are indicators of such impairment, and we determine that the carrying basis of
the assets is greater than the current fair value, less costs to dispose.

Recent Disposition Activity

We (i) sell assets that do not meet our long-term investment strategy or when capital and real
estate markets allow us to realize a portion of the value created over the past business cycle and
(ii) redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities. Pending
such redeployment, we will generally use the proceeds from the sale of these communities to reduce
amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility. On occasion, we will set aside the proceeds from
the sale of communities into a cash escrow account to facilitate a non-taxable, like-kind exchange
transaction. From January 1, 2009 to January 31, 2010, we sold our interest in six wholly owned
communities, containing 1,332 apartment homes. The aggregate gross sales price for these assets
was $225,125,000.

Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses

We carry commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to all of our
communities. These policies, and other insurance policies we carry, have policy specifications,
insured limits and deductibles that we consider commercially reasonable. There are, however,
certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts
of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost
of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically impractical. You should carefully review
the discussion under Item 1a., “Risk Factors,” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of risks
associated with an uninsured property or liability loss.

Many of our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults.
Many of our communities are near, and thus susceptible to, the major fault lines in California,
including the San Andreas Fault and the Hayward Fault. We cannot assure you that an earthquake
would not cause damage or losses greater than


insured levels. We have in place with respect to
communities located in California and Washington, for any single occurrence and in the aggregate,
$75,000,000 of coverage. Earthquake coverage outside of California and Washington is subject to a
$100,000,000 limit each occurrence and in the aggregate. In California the deductible each
occurrence is five percent of the insured value of each damaged building. Our earthquake insurance
outside of California provides for a $100,000 deductible per occurrence except that the next
$350,000 of loss per occurrence outside California will be treated as an additional self-insured
retention until the total incurred self-insured retention exceeds $1,400,000.

On December 31, 2009, we elected to cancel and rewrite our property insurance policy for a 16 month
term in order to take advantage of updated earthquake loss projections and declining insurance
premium rates. As a result, our property insurance premium decreased by approximately 24% with no
material changes in coverage. We expect to renew this policy when it expires on May 1, 2011.

In August 2009, we renewed our general liability policy and worker’s compensation coverage for a
one year term, and experienced a decrease in the premium on these policies of approximately 25%,
with no material changes in the coverage. These policies are in effect until August 1, 2010.

Just as with office buildings, transportation systems and government buildings, there have been
reports that apartment communities could become targets of terrorism. In December 2007, Congress
passed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (“TRIPRA”) which is designed to
make terrorism insurance available through a federal back-stop program until 2014. In connection
with this legislation, we have purchased insurance for property damage due to terrorism up to
$250,000,000. Additionally, we have purchased insurance for certain terrorist acts, not covered
under TRIPRA, such as domestic-based terrorism. This insurance, often referred to as
“non-certified” terrorism insurance, is subject to deductibles, limits and exclusions. Our general
liability policy provides TRIPRA coverage (subject to deductibles and insured limits) for liability
to third parties that result from terrorist acts at our communities.

An additional consideration for insurance coverage and potential uninsured losses is mold growth.
Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials,
particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of
time. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our communities, we could be required to
undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected community
and could be exposed to other liabilities. For further discussion of the risks and the Company’s
related prevention and remediation activities, please refer to the discussion under Item 1a., “Risk
Factors — We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance,” elsewhere in
this report. We cannot provide assurance that we will have coverage under our existing policies
for property damage or liability to third parties arising as a result of exposure to mold or a
claim of exposure to mold at one of our communities.

We also carry crime policies (also commonly referred to as a fidelity policy or employee dishonesty
policy) that protect the Company, up to $5,000,000 per occurrence, from employee theft of money,
securities or property.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

As previously reported, we are involved in litigation alleging that communities constructed by us
violate the accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act (“FHA”) and the Americans with
Disabilities Act. The Equal Rights Center (“ERC”) filed a complaint against us on September 23,
2005 in the U.S. District Court, District of Maryland with respect to 100 properties. In November
2009, we settled this litigation by entering into a court approved consent decree. Under the
consent decree we will inspect and, if necessary, remediate up to 8,250
apartment units and related public and common areas at our communities. We expect that the
remediation resulting from the inspections, which should occur over approximately a four year
period, will enhance and/or extend the useful life of the applicable communities and will therefore
be capitalized. Although we will not be able to determine the exact remediation or associated costs
until inspections are completed, we do not believe that the remediation costs will be material to
the Company.


On August 13, 2008 the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York filed a civil
lawsuit against the Company and the joint venture (CVP I, LLC) in which it has an interest that
owns Avalon Chrystie Place. The lawsuit alleges that Avalon Chrystie Place was not designed and
constructed in accordance with the accessibility requirements of the FHA. The Company designed and
constructed Avalon Chrystie Place with a view to compliance with New York City’s Local Law 58,
which for more than 20 years has been New York City’s code regulating the accessible design and
construction of apartments. After the filing of its answer and affirmative defenses, during the
fourth quarter of 2009 the plaintiff served the Company with discovery requests relating to
communities owned by the Company nationwide. The Company objected to these discovery requests as
being overly broad, as the plaintiff’s complaint made factual allegations with regard to Avalon
Chrystie Place only. A magistrate judge agreed with the Company and limited discovery to Avalon
Chrystie Place. The plaintiff is appealing the magistrate judge’s ruling. Due to the preliminary
nature of the Department of Justice matter, including whether the scope of their suit will be
extended to other properties, we cannot predict or determine the outcome of that matter, nor is it
reasonably possible to estimate the amount of loss, if any, that would be associated with an
adverse decision or settlement.

On August 1, 2008, we filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of the State of Washington in the
County of King (

Avalon DownREIT V, L.P. v. Grand-Glacier, LLC et al)

relating to our assertion that
the homeowners association in which our former Avalon Wynhaven community is a part systematically
overcharged us for various shared costs. We sold this property in 2008 and agreed to indemnify the
buyer for annual association fees to the extent they exceed an amount that we each agreed was
reasonable. The defendants have filed a cross-claim against Avalon DownREIT V, L.P. seeking
foreclosure of the property and satisfaction of all amounts alleged to be due. We intend to
vigorously pursue our claim and defend against the counter claim. We are negotiating a settlement
of this litigation on terms that are not material to the Company’s operations or financial
condition, but we cannot predict if or when we will settle this litigation, or the terms of a final
judgment or settlement.

In addition to the matters described above, we are involved in various other claims and/or
administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. While no assurances
can be given, we do not believe that any of these other outstanding litigation matters,
individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our operations.

ITEM
4. [RESERVED]


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol AVB. The following table sets forth
the quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the years 2009 and 2008,
as reported by the NYSE. On January 31, 2010 there were 648 holders of record of an aggregate of
81,546,465 shares of our outstanding common stock. The number of holders does not include
individuals or entities who beneficially own shares but whose shares are held of record by a broker
or clearing agency, but does include each such broker or clearing agency as one record holder.



Sales Price

Dividends

Sales Price

Dividends

High

Low

declared

High

Low

declared

Quarter ended March 31

$

61.87

$

35.38

$

0.8925

$

105.98

$

79.78

$

0.8925

Quarter ended June 30

$

66.71

$

45.48

$

0.8925

$

107.37

$

87.65

$

0.8925

Quarter ended September 30

$

78.75

$

49.98

$

0.8925

$

109.45

$

82.97

$

0.8925

Quarter ended December 31

$

87.79

$

66.91

$

0.8925

$

96.68

$

41.43

$

2.7000

At present, we expect to continue our policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends.
However, the form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the
discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial
condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code and other factors as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. The
Board of Directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time.

Dividends declared for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 included a special dividend, declared in
December 2008, of $1.8075 per share (the “Special Dividend”) in conjunction with the fourth quarter
2008 regular dividend of $0.8925 per share. These dividends were paid in cash and common shares.
The Special Dividend was declared to distribute a portion of the excess income attributable to
gains on asset sales from the Company’s disposition activities during 2008. The Special Dividend
was declared to qualify for the dividends paid deduction for tax purposes and minimize corporate
level income taxes for 2008 and reduce federal excise taxes.

In February 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a dividend on our common stock
for the first quarter of 2010 of $0.8925 per share. The dividend will be payable on April 15, 2010
to all common stockholders as of March 31, 2010.


Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

(c)

(d)

Total Number of

Maximum Dollar Amount

Shares Purchased

that May Yet be Purchased

(a)

(b)

as Part of Publicly

Under the Plans or

Total Number of

Average Price Paid

Announced Plans or

Programs

Shares Purchased

per Share

Programs

(in thousands)

Period

(1)

(1)

(2)

(2)

Month Ended October 31, 2009

—

$

—

—

$

200,000

Month Ended November 30, 2009

—

$

—

—

$

200,000

Month Ended December 31, 2009


$

86.59

—

$

200,000

(1)

Includes shares surrendered to the Company in connection with employee stock option
exercises or vesting of restricted stock as payment of exercise price or as payment of
taxes.

(2)

As disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, represents
amounts outstanding under the Company’s $500,000,000 Stock Repurchase Program. There
is no scheduled expiration date to this program.

Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is
included in the section entitled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters” in this Form 10-K.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following table provides historical consolidated financial, operating and other data for the
Company. You should read the table with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes
included in this report (dollars in thousands, except per share information).

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

844,254

$

807,656

$

721,644

$

633,674

$

578,444

Management, development and other fees

7,328

6,568

6,142

6,259

4,304

Total revenue

851,582

814,224

727,786

639,933

582,748

Expenses:

Operating expenses, excluding property taxes

261,752

248,862

222,332

196,349

178,819

Property taxes

83,809

73,937

67,240

59,500

57,819

Interest expense, net

150,323

114,910

92,175

103,910

120,670

(Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net

25,910

(1,839

)

—

—

—

Depreciation expense

209,746

183,748

157,895

139,075

136,409

General and administrative expense

28,748

42,781

28,494

24,767

25,761

Impairment loss — land holdings

21,152

57,899

—

—

—

Total expenses

781,440

720,298

568,136

523,601

519,478

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

1,441

4,566

59,169

7,455

7,198

Gain on sale of land

4,830

—


13,519

4,479

Income from continuing operations

76,413

98,492

219,364

137,306

74,947

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

13,974

27,353

33,894

32,402

41,715

Gain on sale of communities

63,887

284,901

106,487

97,411

195,287

Total discontinued operations

77,861

312,254

140,381

129,813

237,002

Net income

154,274

410,746

359,745

267,119

311,949

Net (income) loss attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests

1,373


(1,585

)

(573

)

(1,481

)

Net income attributable to the Company

155,647

411,487

358,160

266,546

310,468

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

—

(10,454

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

155,647

$

401,033

$

349,460

$

257,846

$

301,768

Per Common Share and Share Information:

Earnings per common share — basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
stockholders (net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

0.97

$

1.15

$

2.65

$

1.73

$

0.88

Discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders

0.97

4.06

1.78

1.74

3.24

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.94

$

5.21

$

4.43

$

3.47

$

4.12

Weighted average shares outstanding — basic

(1)

79,951,348

76,783,515

78,680,043

74,125,795

72,952,492

Earnings per common share — diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders (net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

0.96

$

1.15

$

2.62

$

1.69

$

0.87

Discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders

0.97

4.02

1.76

1.73

3.18

Net income
attributable to common stockholders

$

1.93

$

5.17

$

4.38

$

3.42

$

4.05

Weighted
average shares outstanding — diluted

(2)

80,599,657

77,578,852

79,856,927

75,586,898

74,759,318

Cash dividends declared

(3)

$

3.57

$

3.57

$

3.40

$

3.12

$

2.84

(1)

Amounts include unvested restricted shares. Please refer to Note 1, “Organization
and Basis of Presentation - Earnings per Common Share” of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth
in Item 8 of this report for a discussion of the calculation of Earnings per Share.

(2)

Weighted average common shares outstanding — diluted for 2008 includes the impact of approximately 2.6 million common shares issued under the special dividend
declared on December 17, 2008.

(3)

Does not include the special dividend of $1.8075 per share, which was declared on December 17, 2008, and paid in the form of shares of the Company’s common stock.


For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Other Information:

Net income attributable to the Company

$

155,647

$

411,487

$

358,160

$

266,546

$

310,468

Depreciation — continuing operations

209,746

183,748

157,895

139,075

136,409

Depreciation — discontinued operations

8,540

15,704

23,830

25,054

26,888

Interest expense, net — continuing operations (1)

176,233

113,071

92,175

103,910

120,670

Interest expense, net — discontinued operations


3,297

6,057

7,136

6,428

EBITDA (2)

$

550,847

$

727,307

$

638,117

$

541,721

$

600,863

Funds from Operations (3)

$

313,241

$

315,947

$

368,057

$

320,199

$

271,096

Number of Current Communities (4)






Number of apartment homes

47,926

45,728

45,932

43,141

41,412

Balance Sheet Information:

Real estate, before accumulated depreciation

$

8,360,091

$

8,002,487

$

7,556,740

$

6,615,593

$

5,940,146

Total assets

$

7,457,605

$

7,174,353

$

6,736,484

$

5,848,507

$

5,198,598

Notes payable and unsecured credit facilities

$

3,974,872

$

3,674,457

$

3,208,202

$

2,866,433

$

2,334,017

Cash Flow Information:

Net cash flows provided by operating activities

$

378,600

$

386,855

$

454,874

$

351,660

$

306,248

Net cash flows used in investing activities

$

(333,559

)

$

(266,309

)

$

(809,247

)

$

(511,371

)

$

(19,761

)

Net cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities

$

(4,285

)

$

(75,111

)

$

366,360

$

162,280

$

(282,293

)

Notes to Selected Financial Data

(1)

Interest expense, net includes any loss or gain incurred from the extinguishment of debt.

(2)

EBITDA is defined as net income before interest income and expense, income taxes,
depreciation and amortization from both continuing and discontinued operations. Under this
definition, EBITDA includes gains on sale of assets and gain on sale of partnership interests.
Management generally considers EBITDA to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income
of our operating performance because it helps investors to understand our ability to incur and
service debt and to make capital expenditures. EBITDA should not be considered as an
alternative to net income (as determined in accordance with GAAP), as an indicator of our
operating performance, or to cash flows from operating activities (as determined in accordance
with GAAP) as a measure of liquidity. Our calculation of EBITDA may not be comparable to
EBITDA as calculated by other companies.

(3)

We generally consider Funds from Operations, or “FFO,” as defined below, to be an appropriate
supplemental measure of our operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or
losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated property and excluding real estate
depreciation, which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on
historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, FFO can help
one compare the operating performance of a real estate company between periods or as compared to
different companies. We believe that in order to understand our operating results, FFO should
be examined with net income as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other
Comprehensive Income included elsewhere in this report.

Consistent with the definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts

â

(“NAREIT”), we calculate FFO as net income or
loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for:

FFO does not represent net income in accordance with GAAP, and therefore it should not be
considered an alternative to net income, which remains the primary measure, as an indication of
our performance. In addition, FFO as calculated by other REITs may not be comparable to our
calculation of FFO.


FFO also does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, and
therefore should not be considered an alternative to net cash flows from operating activities,
as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity. Additionally, it is not necessarily
indicative of cash available to fund cash needs. A presentation of GAAP based cash flow
metrics is provided in “Cash Flow Information” in the table on the previous page.

The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO (dollars in thousands, except per share
data):

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Net income attributable to the Company

$

155,647

$

411,487

$

358,160

$

266,546

$

310,468

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

—

(10,454

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

Depreciation — real estate assets,
including discontinued operations and
joint venture adjustments

221,415

203,082

184,731

165,982

163,252

Distributions to noncontrolling interests,
including discontinued operations





1,363

Gain on sale of unconsolidated entities
holding previously depreciated real
estate assets

—

(3,483

)

(59,927

)

(6,609

)

—

Gain on sale of previously depreciated
real estate assets

(63,887

)

(284,901

)

(106,487

)

(97,411

)

(195,287

)

Funds from Operations
attributable to common stockholders

$

313,241

$

315,947

$

368,057

$

320,199

$

271,096

Weighted average shares outstanding — diluted

80,599,657

77,578,852

79,856,927

75,586,898

74,759,318

FFO per common share — diluted

$

3.89

$

4.07

$

4.61

$

4.24

$

3.63

(4)

Current Communities consist of all communities other than those which are still under
construction and have not received a certificate of occupancy.


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is
intended to help provide an understanding of our business and results of operations. This MD&A
should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. This report, including the
following MD&A, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events or trends that should
be read in conjunction with the factors described under “Forward-Looking Statements” included in
this report. In addition, our actual results or developments could differ materially from those
projected in such forward-looking statements as a result of the factors discussed under
“Forward-Looking Statements” as well as the risk factors described in Item 1a, “Risk Factors,” of
this report.

Executive Overview

Business Description

We are primarily engaged in developing, acquiring, owning and operating apartment communities in
high barrier to entry markets of the United States. We believe that apartment communities are an
attractive long-term investment opportunity compared to other real estate investments, because a
broad potential resident base should help reduce demand volatility over a real estate cycle.
However, throughout the real estate cycle, apartment market fundamentals, and therefore operating
cash flows, are affected by overall economic conditions. We seek to create long-term shareholder
value by accessing capital on cost effective terms; deploying that capital to develop, redevelop
and acquire apartment communities in high barrier to entry markets; operating apartment
communities; and selling communities when they no longer meet our long-term investment strategy or
when pricing is attractive. Barriers to entry in our markets generally include a difficult and
lengthy entitlement process with local jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban areas where zoned
and entitled land is in limited supply.

We regularly evaluate the allocation of our investments by the amount of invested capital and by
product type within our individual markets, which are located in New England, the New York/New
Jersey metro area, the Mid-Atlantic, the Midwest, the Pacific Northwest, and the Northern and
Southern California regions of the United States. Our time-tested strategy is to be leaders in customer insight, market research and capital
allocation, delivering a range of multifamily offerings tailored to serve the needs of the most
attractive customer segments in the best-performing US submarkets. Our communities are
predominately upscale, which generally command among the highest rents in their markets. However,
we also pursue the ownership and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of
customer segments and price points, consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products
and services.

Financial Highlights and Outlook

For the year ended December 31, 2009, net income available to common stockholders was $155,647,000
compared to $401,033,000 for 2008, a decrease of 61.2%. The decrease is primarily due to the
reduced number of communities sold and amount of gains related to these sales in 2009 as compared
to the prior year, coupled with the loss recognized on the tender offer completed in October 2009,
offset somewhat by a decrease in charges for land impairments and abandoned pursuit costs. Detail
of the impacts for the land impairments, abandoned pursuits as well as the charge for the tender
offer and certain other non-routine items is provided in the following table.


Non-Routine Items

Decrease (Increase) in Net Income and FFO

(dollars in thousands)

Full Year

Full Year



Land impairments

$

57,899

$

21,152

Abandoned pursuits (1)

6,611

1,139

Severance and related costs

3,400

4,500

Federal excise tax

3,200


(Gain) loss on unsecured notes repurchase

(1,839

)

25,910

Gain on sale of land

—

(4,830

)

Joint venture income adjustment (2)

—

(1,294

)

Legal settlement proceeds, net

—

(1,175

)

Preferred stock deferred offering
expenses

3,566

—

Fund II organizational costs

1,209

—

Total non-routine items

$

74,046

$

45,917

Weighted
Average Dilutive Shares Outstanding

77,578,852

80,599,657

(1)

For purposes of non-routine classification, abandoned
pursuits includes costs we expensed for individual pursuits in excess of $1,000 in a given quarter.

(2)

Includes our promoted interest of $3,894 in joint venture,
and our pro rata portion of an impairment charge on a community in an unconsolidated joint venture of $2,600.

Apartment fundamentals continued to be challenged during 2009. Job losses exceeded our expectations
during the year, resulting in more than expected downward pressure on rental revenue. Our
Established Community portfolio experienced a decline in year-over-year rental revenue of 3.7%,
comprised of a decrease in rental rates of 3.1% and in economic occupancy of 0.6%. This decrease in
revenues and an increase in operating expenses resulted in a decline in our Established Community
portfolio NOI of 7.1% in 2009 from the prior year.

We expect Earnings per share — diluted (“EPS”) will decrease to $1.73 for 2010 from $1.93 in 2009,
driven primarily by a decline in revenue and NOI from our Established Communities in 2010 as
compared to the prior year. The recession, coupled with the short term nature of apartment leases,
continues to adversely impact current operating fundamentals. The expected decline in our 2010 NOI
is attributable largely to the effect of job losses experienced during the past two years.
Employment is a leading demand driver, and we expect continued weak employment conditions to
contribute to revenue declines in 2010. The impact of job losses on our results for 2010 may be
somewhat offset by (i) the expected continued weakness in the for-sale housing market during 2010,
(ii) growth in those age groups that have historically demonstrated a higher propensity to rent and
(iii) constrained levels of new supply. Our current financial outlook for 2010 provides for a
decline in rental revenue of between 3.0% and 4.5% in our Established Community portfolio resulting
in a projected NOI decline for our Established Communities of 5.0% to 7.0%.

We were again active in the capital markets in 2009, raising in excess of $1,700,000,000 through
the issuance of secured and unsecured debt, assets sales, sales of common equity in the public
markets, and capital commitments for Fund II. We have used the proceeds received to fund our
development and redevelopment activities, to acquire an indirect interest in assets through Fund
II, to repay higher cost secured and unsecured debt, and to repay floating rate debt, while
retaining substantial cash balances for general corporate purposes. Our focus on raising capital
includes consideration for managing the maturity risk associated with our secured and unsecured
debt obligations. Our 2009 activity includes the issuance of over $800,000,000 of secured
financing and $500,000,000 of unsecured notes in September 2009 in two $250,000,000 tranches, one
maturing in 2017 and the second maturing in 2020. A portion of the proceeds was used to repurchase
$310,100,000 principal amount of some or all of the amounts outstanding on unsecured notes maturing
over the next three years, effectively extending the duration of debt maturities while reducing
interest costs. We believe that our relatively modest level of secured and unsecured debt will
continue to provide financial flexibility to access capital on attractive terms.


The funds raised from dispositions consist of the proceeds from  the sale of five communities for a gross sales
price of $179,675,000. We anticipate our level of disposition activity will be consistent in 2010,
within the range of gross sales of $180,000,000 to $200,000,000, occurring primarily during the
first half of the year

During 2009 we completed the development of nine communities for an aggregate total capitalized
cost of $810,700,000. We started the development of two communities, which are expected to be
completed for an estimated total capitalized cost of $64,900,000.

We expect an increase in investor demand for quality multifamily assets, due in part to the
increased liquidity in the capital markets and constrained supply resulting from the decline in
development activity in all markets. While we reduced our level of development during 2009 in
response to the general deterioration in real estate and capital market conditions, we believe that
our development activity will continue to create long-term value. During 2010, we expect to use
our core competency in development to deliver new assets into the market for a recovery in
apartment fundamentals that we expect in 2011 and 2012. We anticipate new development starts in
2010 with a total projected capitalized cost of $380,000,000. Consistent with this view, we also
expect to increase redevelopment activity for our wholly owned communities in 2010, during which we
expect to start redevelopment of seven wholly owned communities.

During 2010, we expect to disburse approximately $500,000,000 related to the seven communities
under development at December 31, 2009, the new development starts, and anticipated acquisitions of
land for future development. We expect approximately $50,000,000 of the projected 2010
disbursements will be funded from cash in escrow related to previously sourced tax-exempt debt. We
believe that our current level of indebtedness, our current ability to service interest and other
fixed charges and our current limited use of financial encumbrances (such as secured financing)
will provide adequate access to the capital necessary to fund our development and redevelopment
activities during 2010. We expect to meet our liquidity needs from the issuance of corporate
securities (which could include unsecured debt and/or common and preferred equity) and secured
debt, as well as from disposition proceeds, joint ventures or from retained cash. We believe that
the current market provides for an opportunity to perform certain scheduled maintenance and
repositioning activities at attractive costs due to a continued decline in costs for construction
materials and labor.

We increase our direct and indirect interests in communities through development and acquisitions.
While we grow principally through our demonstrated core competency of developing wholly owned
assets from capital sources, we also acquire interests in additional assets, primarily through our
investment in Fund II.

Fund I is a discretionary investment fund with nine institutional investors, including us. One of
our wholly owned subsidiaries is the general partner of Fund I and has invested approximately
$50,000,000 in Fund I, representing a 15.2% combined general partner and limited partner equity
interest. Fund I was our principal vehicle for acquiring apartment communities through the close of
its investment period in March 2008. Subsidiaries of Fund I have 21 loans secured by individual
assets with amounts outstanding in the aggregate of $436,410,000 with varying maturity dates (or
dates after which the loans can be prepaid without penalty), ranging from October 2011 to September
2016. These mortgage loans are secured by the underlying real estate.

Fund II is a second discretionary investment fund with six institutional investors, including us.
One of our wholly owned subsidiaries is the general partner of Fund II. Fund II was formed in
August 2008 and, in the second quarter of 2009, we added equity commitments for Fund II, resulting
in total equity commitments from five institutional investors and us of $400,000,000, of which our
commitment is $125,000,000.   Total equity commitments to Fund II in the second
quarter of 2009 increased by $67,000,000 as a result of the following:

•

a new institutional investor made an equity commitment of $75,000,000;

•

an existing institutional investor increased its commitment by $17,000,000, based on
terms of its existing commitment; and

•

we decreased our commitment by $25,000,000 to $125,000,000, based on terms of our
existing commitment, decreasing our equity interest to approximately 31%.


Fund II can employ leverage of up to 65%, allowing for a total investment capacity of approximately
$1,100,000,000, and has a term that expires in August 2018, plus two one-year extension options.
Fund II now serves as the exclusive vehicle through which we will acquire investment interests in
apartment communities until August 2011 or, if earlier, until 90% of the committed capital of Fund
II is invested, subject to limited exceptions. Fund II will not include or involve our development
activities. We will receive, in addition to any returns on invested equity, asset management fees, property management fees and redevelopment fees. We will
also receive a promoted interest if certain return thresholds are met.

In 2009, Fund II acquired two communities, Avalon Bellevue Park, a 220 apartment-home community
located in Bellevue, Washington and The Hermitage, a 491 apartment-home community located in
Fairfax, Virginia. Fund II has invested $104,330,000 as of December 31, 2009. Fund II has one loan
secured by an asset in the amount of $21,515,000 with a maturity of June 2019. This loan is payable
by Fund II. As of December 31, 2009, Fund II also has $30,200,000 outstanding under a credit
facility that matures in December 2010.

In February 2010, Fund II acquired its third community, a 203 apartment-home community located in
Gaithersburg, Maryland.

Communities Overview

Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities,
Development Communities, and Development Rights. Our current operating communities are further
distinguished as Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and
Redevelopment Communities. Established Communities are generally operating communities that are
consolidated for financial reporting purposes and were owned and had stabilized occupancy and
operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year, which allows the performance of these
communities and the markets in which they are located to be compared and monitored between years.
Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other consolidated operating communities that have
stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but had not achieved
stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year. Lease-Up Communities consist of communities
where construction is complete but stabilization has not been achieved. Redevelopment Communities
consist of communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during
the current year. A more detailed description of our reportable segments and other related
operating information can be found in Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Although each of these categories is important to our business, we generally evaluate overall
operating, industry and market trends based on the operating results of Established Communities,
for which a detailed discussion can be found in “Results of Operations” as part of our discussion
of overall operating results. We evaluate our current and future cash needs and future operating
potential based on acquisition, disposition, development, redevelopment and financing activities
within Other Stabilized, Redevelopment and Development Communities. Discussions related to these
segments of our business can be found in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

NOI of our current operating communities is one of the financial measures that we use to evaluate
community performance. NOI is affected by the demand and supply dynamics within our markets, our
rental rates and occupancy levels and our ability to control operating costs. Our overall
financial performance is also impacted by the general availability and cost of capital and the
performance of newly developed and acquired apartment communities.

As of December 31, 2009, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 172 apartment
communities containing 50,364 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which
seven communities were under construction and seven communities were under reconstruction. Of
these communities, 24 were owned by entities that were not consolidated for financial reporting
purposes, including 19 owned by subsidiaries of Fund I and two owned by subsidiaries of Fund II.
In addition, we owned a direct or indirect ownership interest in Development Rights to develop an
additional 28 wholly owned communities that, if developed in the manner expected, will contain an
estimated 7,180 apartment homes.

Results of Operations


Our year-over-year operating performance is primarily affected by both overall and individual
geographic market conditions and apartment fundamentals and reflected in changes in NOI of our
Established Communities; NOI derived from acquisitions and development completions; the loss of NOI
related to disposed communities; and capital market and financing activity. A comparison of our
operating results for 2009, 2008 and 2007 follows (dollars in thousands):



$ Change

% Change



$ Change

% Change

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

844,254

$

807,656

$

36,598

4.5

%

$

807,656

$

721,644

$

86,012

11.9

%

Management, development and other fees

7,328

6,568


11.6

%

6,568

6,142


6.9

%

Total revenue

851,582

814,224

37,358

4.6

%

814,224

727,786

86,438

11.9

%

Expenses:

Direct property operating expenses,
excluding property taxes

214,507

191,690

22,817

11.9

%

191,690

171,968

19,722

11.5

%

Property taxes

83,809

73,937

9,872

13.4

%

73,937

67,240

6,697

10.0

%

Total community operating expenses

298,316

265,627

32,689

12.3

%

265,627

239,208

26,419

11.0

%

Corporate-level property management
and other indirect operating expenses

37,559

39,874

(2,315

)

(5.8

%)

39,874

38,627

1,247

3.2

%

Investments and investment management expense

3,844

4,787

(943

)

(19.7

%)

4,787

4,763


0.5

%

Expensed development and other pursuit costs

5,842

12,511

(6,669

)

(53.3

%)

12,511

6,974

5,537

79.4

%

Interest expense, net

150,323

114,910

35,413

30.8

%

114,910

92,175

22,735

24.7

%

(Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net

25,910

(1,839

)

27,749

(1,508.9

%)

(1,839

)

—

(1,839

)

N/A

Depreciation expense

209,746

183,748

25,998

14.1

%

183,748

157,895

25,853

16.4

%

General and administrative expense

28,748

42,781

(14,033

)

(32.8

%)

42,781

28,494

14,287

50.1

%

Impairment loss

21,152

57,899

(36,747

)

(63.5

%)

57,899

—

57,899

N/A

Gain on sale of land

(4,830

)

—

(4,830

)

N/A

—

(545

)


(100.0

%)

Total other expenses

478,294

454,671

23,623

5.2

%

454,671

328,383

126,288

38.5

%

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

1,441

4,566

(3,125

)

(68.4

%)

4,566

59,169

(54,603

)

(92.3

%)

Income from continuing operations

76,413

98,492

(22,079

)

(22.4

%)

98,492

219,364

(120,872

)

(55.1

%)

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

13,974

27,353

(13,379

)

(48.9

%)

27,353

33,894

(6,541

)

(19.3

%)

Gain on sale of communities

63,887

284,901

(221,014

)

(77.6

%)

284,901

106,487

178,414

167.5

%

Total discontinued operations

77,861

312,254

(234,393

)

(75.1

%)

312,254

140,381

171,873

122.4

%

Net income

154,274

410,746

(256,472

)

(62.4

%)

410,746

359,745

51,001

14.2

%

Net (income) loss attributable to redeemable
noncontrolling interests

1,373



85.3

%


(1,585

)

2,326

(146.8

%)

Net income attributable to the Company

155,647

411,487

(255,840

)

(62.2

%)

411,487

358,160

53,327

14.9

%

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

—

(10,454

)

10,454

(100.0

%)

(10,454

)

(8,700

)

(1,754

)

20.2

%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

155,647

$

401,033

$

(245,386

)

(61.2

%)

$

401,033

$

349,460

$

51,573

14.8

%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

decreased $245,386,000 or 61.2%, to $155,647,000 in
primarily due to the reduced number of communities sold and amount of gains related to these sales
in 2009 as compared to the prior year and the loss recognized on the early repurchase of debt
completed in October 2009. The overall decline in net income was mitigated by a reduction in
charges for land impairments and abandoned pursuit costs between years. Net income attributable to
common stockholders increased $51,573,000 or 14.8% in 2008 over the prior year period due primarily
to gains from the sale of communities and year-over-year increases in community operating
performance, partially offset by charges associated with land impairments and abandoned pursuits as
well as increased costs for interest and depreciation.

NOI

is considered by management to be an important and appropriate supplemental performance measure
to net income because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a
community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level or financing-related costs.
NOI reflects the operating performance of a community and allows for an easy comparison of the
operating performance of individual assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective
buyers of real estate have different financing and overhead structures, with varying marginal
impacts to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry
to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or group of assets. We
define NOI as total property revenue less direct property operating expenses, including property
taxes.

NOI does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP.
Therefore, NOI should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our
performance. NOI should also not be considered an alternative to net cash flow from operating
activities, as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity, nor is NOI necessarily indicative of
cash available to fund cash needs. Reconciliations of NOI for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007 to net income for each year, are as follows (dollars in thousands):


For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

Net income

$

154,274

$

410,746

$

359,745

Indirect operating expenses, net of
corporate income

30,315

33,010

31,285

Investments and investment management expense

3,844

4,787

4,763

Expensed development and other pursuit costs

5,842

12,511

6,974

Interest expense, net

150,323

114,910

92,175

(Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net

25,910

(1,839

)

—

General and administrative expense

28,748

42,781

28,494

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

(1,441

)

(4,566

)

(59,169

)

Depreciation expense

209,746

183,748

157,895

Impairment loss — land holdings

21,152

57,899

—

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(68,717

)

(284,901

)

(107,032

)

Income from discontinued operations

(13,974

)

(27,353

)

(33,894

)

Net operating income

$

546,022

$

541,733

$

481,236

The NOI increases for both 2009 and 2008, as compared to the prior year period, consist of changes
in the following categories (dollars in thousands):

Full Year

Full Year



Established Communities

$

(29,707

)

$

19,160

Other Stabilized Communities

14,228

44,722

Development and Redevelopment Communities

19,768

(3,385

)

Total

$

4,289

$

60,497

The NOI decrease in Established Communities in 2009 is due to the rental revenue declines as a
result of the job losses experienced in 2008 and 2009, coupled with increases in community
operating expenses. During 2009, we focused on minimizing rental rate declines, while maintaining
occupancy of at least 94% in all regions.

We anticipate that rental rates and occupancy levels will decline in 2010 such that overall rental
revenue will decline between 3.0% and 4.5%. The projected revenue decline is due to our
expectation of continued job losses at least through the second quarter of 2010. Expense growth
also impacts growth in NOI and we continue to monitor and manage operating expenses to constrain
expense growth. We expect operating expenses to be flat in 2010 from prior year levels. As a
result, we expect NOI for our Established Communities to decline between 5.0% and 7.0%. These
projections are based on our outlook for employment conditions and apartment market fundamentals in
2010, both nationally and in the markets where we operate, as well as the individual demand/supply
characteristics of each submarket in which we operate. There can be no assurance that our outlook
for economic conditions and/or their impact on our operating results will be accurate, and actual
results could differ materially. Please see “Risk Factors,” “Forward-Looking Statements” and other
discussions in this report on Form 10-K for a discussion of factors which could affect our results
of operations.

Rental and other income

increased in 2009 as compared to the prior year due to additional rental
income generated from newly developed communities, offset somewhat by decreased rental rates and
occupancy for our Established Communities. Rental and other income increased in 2008 as compared to
the prior year due to increased rental rates and occupancy for our Established Communities, coupled
with additional rental income generated from newly developed communities.

Overall Portfolio — The weighted average number of occupied apartment homes increased to
38,233 apartment homes for 2009 as compared to 37,886 homes for 2008 and 38,436 homes for
2007. The increase in 2009 over 2008 is due to homes available from newly developed
communities, offset partially by communities sold during 2009, as well as declining
occupancy levels due to the economic slow down.


The weighted average monthly revenue per
occupied apartment home decreased to $1,910 for 2009 as compared to $1,921 in 2008 and
$1,767 in 2007.

Established Communities — Rental revenue decreased $22,370,000, or 3.7%, for 2009 and
increased $18,221,000, or 3.1%, for 2008. The decrease in 2009 from 2008 is due primarily
to lower rental rates. For 2009, the weighted average monthly revenue per occupied
apartment home decreased 3.1% to $1,869 compared to $1,929 in 2008. There was a slight
change in year-over-year average economic occupancy for 2009 down 0.6% to 95.6% compared to
96.2% in 2008. The increase in rental revenue in 2008 over the prior year is due entirely
to increased average rental rates. Economic occupancy takes into account the fact that
apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have different economic
impacts on a community’s gross revenue. Economic occupancy is defined as gross potential
revenue less vacancy loss, as a percentage of gross potential revenue. Gross potential
revenue is determined by valuing occupied homes at leased rates and vacant homes at market
rents.

We experienced decreases in Established Communities’ rental revenue in all six of our regions for
2009 as compared to the prior year period as discussed in more detail below.


In accordance with GAAP, cash concessions are amortized as an offset to rental revenue over the
approximate lease term, which is generally one year. As a supplemental measure, we also present
rental revenue with concessions stated on a cash basis to help investors evaluate the impact of
both current and historical concessions on GAAP based rental revenue and to more readily enable
comparisons to revenue as reported by other companies. Rental revenue with concessions stated on a
cash basis also allows investors to understand historical trends in cash concessions, as well as
current rental market conditions.

The following table reconciles total rental revenue in conformity with GAAP to total rental revenue
adjusted to state concessions on a cash basis for our Established Communities for the years 2009
and 2008 (dollars in thousands). Information for the year ended December 31, 2007 is not
presented, as Established Community classification is not comparable prior to January 1, 2008. See
Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

Rental revenue (GAAP basis)

$

587,752

$

610,122

Concessions amortized

8,000

6,771

Concessions granted

(6,361

)

(8,004

)

Rental revenue adjusted to state
concessions on a cash basis

$

589,391

$

608,889

Year-over-year % change — GAAP revenue

(3.7

%)

n/a

Year-over-year % change — cash concession based revenue

(3.2

%)

n/a

Management, development and other fees

increased $760,000, or 11.6%, in 2009 and increased
$426,000, or 6.9% in 2008. The increase in 2009 was due primarily to increased asset and property
management fees from Fund II. The increase in 2008 was due primarily to increased redevelopment
fees and property management fees as additional communities were acquired by subsidiaries of Fund
I.

Direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes

increased $22,817,000, or 11.9% in
2009 and increased $19,722,000, or 11.5% for 2008 as compared to the prior year periods, primarily
due to the addition of recently developed apartment homes coupled with increased administrative
expense due primarily to increases in bad debt expense due to the recession.

For Established Communities, direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes,
increased $6,411,000, or 4.8% to $139,955,000 for 2009 and $328,000, or 0.2% to $133,544,000 for
2008, due primarily to increased administrative and community maintenance related costs, offset
partially by a decrease in insurance and utility related expenses. The increases in administrative
expense are primarily due to increased bad debt.

Property taxes

increased $9,872,000, or 13.4% and $6,697,000, or 10.0% in 2009 and 2008,
respectively, due to the addition of newly developed and redeveloped apartment homes and overall
higher assessments. Property tax increases are also impacted by the size and timing of successful
tax appeals.

For Established Communities, property taxes increased by $1,242,000, or 2.1% and $3,515,000, or
6.2% for 2009 and 2008, respectively over the prior year, due to both higher assessments throughout
all regions and reductions in property taxes realized in 2008 that did not occur in 2009. The
impact of the current economic environment has not been reflected in current assessments, as there
is typically a time lag between a change in the economy affecting property valuations and updated
real estate tax assessments. We expect property taxes in 2010 to increase over 2009 due primarily
to higher tax rates, without the benefit of lower assessed values. For communities in California,
property tax changes are determined by the change in the California Consumer Price Index, with
increases limited by law (Proposition 13). We evaluate property tax increases internally, and also
engage third-party consultants to assist in our evaluations. We appeal property tax increases when
appropriate.


Corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses

decreased by $2,315,000,
or 5.8% in 2009 and increased $1,247,000, or 3.2% in 2008 over the prior year periods. The
decrease in 2009 over 2008 is due primarily to decreases in compensation costs, coupled with a
reduction in costs associated with the initial start up of our Customer Care Center, discussed
below. The increase in 2008 over the prior year is due primarily to increased compensation and
employee separation costs, as well as costs relating to the initial start up of the Customer Care
Center and other corporate initiatives focused on increasing efficiency and enhancing controls at
our operating communities. The Customer Care Center in Virginia Beach, Virginia opened in 2007 and
expanded in 2008 to centralize certain community-related accounting, administrative and customer
service functions.

Investments and investment management

reflects the costs incurred for investment acquisitions and
investment management. Investments and investment management costs decreased in 2009 by $943,000 or
19.7% from the prior year due primarily to lower compensation and travel-related costs.

Expensed development and other pursuit costs

primarily reflect the costs incurred for abandoned
pursuit costs, which include costs incurred for development pursuits not yet considered probable
for development, as well as the abandonment of Development Rights and disposition pursuits.
Expensed development and other pursuit costs increased in 2008 as compared to 2007 and 2009 due to
increases in abandoned development pursuits in response to
the economic decline and deteriorating market conditions in 2008. These costs can be volatile,
particularly in periods of economic downturn or when there is limited access to capital, and the
costs may vary significantly from period to period.

Interest expense, net

increased $35,413,000, or 30.8% and $22,735,000, or 24.7% in 2009 and 2008,
respectively over the prior years. This category includes interest expense offset by interest
capitalized, and interest income. The increase in 2009 is due primarily to a decrease in the
amount of interest capitalized in 2009 as compared to the prior year, coupled with increased
interest expense in 2009 compared to 2008 from additional secured and unsecured debt issued to fund
development activity. The decrease in interest capitalized is due to the reduction in development
activity in 2009 as compared to 2008. The increase in 2008 over the prior year is due primarily to
a decrease in interest income in 2008 as compared to the prior year period, coupled with increased
interest expense in 2008 compared to 2007. The higher level of interest income in 2007 is due to
higher invested cash balances from our January 2007 equity offering. The increased interest
expense in 2008 is due primarily to increased amounts of debt outstanding in 2008 compared to the
prior year.

(Gain) loss on the extinguishment of debt, net

reflects the impact of our debt repurchase activity
for payments above or below the carrying basis. The net loss in 2009 is due to the $310,100,000 in
unsecured notes that we purchased prior to their scheduled maturity at a premium, offset by the
gain recognized from our January 2009 tender offer.

Depreciation expens

e increased in 2009 and 2008 primarily due to the net increase in assets from
the completion of development and redevelopment activities, offset by assets sold during the year.

General and administrative expense

(“G&A”) decreased $14,033,000, or 32.8% in 2009 and increased
$14,287,000, or 50.1% in 2008 as compared to the prior years. The increase in 2008 as compared to
2007 and 2009 is due primarily to higher severance and related costs in 2008 associated with the
decrease in our planned development activity, higher federal excise tax expense in 2008 resulting
from gains on disposition activity and organization costs for the formation of Fund II incurred in
2008.

Impairment loss

for 2009 is due to the write down of three land parcels which we do not currently
plan on developing. Impairment loss in 2008 is due primarily to the write down of eight land
parcels which we did not plan on developing at the time. We did not recognize an impairment loss in
2007.

Gain on sale of land

for 2009 increased primarily due to the sale of two land parcels in 2009,
without comparable activity in the prior year.

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

for 2009 decreased from the prior year period due
primarily to the recognition of our proportionate amount of an impairment loss that one of our
unconsolidated investments recognized on one of its operating communities in 2009. In addition,
gains from both the sale of a community by an


unconsolidated joint venture as well as from an
investment in a joint venture formed to develop for sale homes occurred in 2008 that were not
present in 2009. These amounts were partially offset by the recognition of our promoted interest in
the joint venture that owns Avalon Chrystie Place in 2009. The decrease in 2008 from the prior
year is due primarily to the gain on the sale of two partnership interests in 2007 and the related
loss of partnership income, partially offset by our portion of the gain from the sale of a
community by a joint venture partner, income from joint ventures where the underlying communities
have achieved stabilized operations and gains from our investment in a joint venture formed to
develop for-sale homes.

Income from discontinued operations

represents the net income generated by communities sold or
qualifying as discontinued operations during the period from January 1, 2007 through December 31,
2009. This income decreased for 2009 and 2008 due to an increased number of communities sold in
each year as compared to the prior year period. See Note 7, “Real Estate Disposition Activities,”
of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Gain on sale of communities

decreased in 2009 and increased in 2008 as compared to the prior year
periods as a result of changes in the sales volume and associated gains in each respective year.
The amount of gain realized upon disposition of a community depends on many factors, including the
number of communities sold, the size and carrying value of those communities and the market
conditions in the local area.

Net (income) loss attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests

for 2009 resulted in income
of $1,373,000 compared to income of $741,000 in 2008 due primarily to recognition of income for our
joint venture partners’ portion of expenses incurred by Fund II, as well as the conversion and
redemption of limited partnership units in 2008 and 2009, thereby reducing outside ownership
interests and the allocation of net income to outside ownership interests.

FFO

FFO is considered by management to be an appropriate supplemental measure of our operating and
financial performance. In calculating FFO, we exclude gains or losses related to dispositions of
previously depreciated property and exclude real estate depreciation, which can vary among owners
of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life
estimates. FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a real estate company between
periods or as compared to different companies. We believe that in order to understand our
operating results, FFO should be examined with net income as presented in our Consolidated
Financial Statements included elsewhere in  this report. For a more detailed discussion and
presentation of FFO, see “Selected Financial Data,” included in Item 6 of this report.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We believe our principal short-term liquidity needs are to fund:

Factors affecting our liquidity and capital resources are our cash flows from operations, financing
activities and investing activities (including dispositions) as well as general economic and market
conditions. Operating cash flow has historically been determined by: (i) the number of apartment
homes currently owned, (ii) rental rates, (iii) occupancy levels and (iv) operating expenses with
respect to apartment homes. The timing and type of capital markets activity in which we engage, as
well as our plans for development, redevelopment, acquisition and disposition activity, are
affected by changes in the capital markets environment, such as changes in interest rates or the
availability of cost-effective capital. We regularly review our liquidity needs, the adequacy of
cash flows from operations and other expected liquidity sources to meet these needs.


During 2009 we saw access to liquidity improve as credit and equity markets recovered. During 2009,
we raised in excess of $1,700,000,000 in the form of secured debt, unsecured debt and public and
private equity. In 2010, we expect to meet all of our liquidity needs from a variety of internal
and external sources, including cash balances on hand, borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility
(as defined below), secured financings and other public or private sources of liquidity as
discussed below, as well as our operating activities. To the extent that currently available
internal and external resources do not satisfy our needs, we may seek additional external
financing. Additional external financing could come from a variety of sources, such as public
sales of debt or equity securities or unsecured or secured loans from financial institutions or
other private or governmental lenders, among others. Private equity through joint ventures may also
be used. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as
market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the
real estate industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the perception of lenders
regarding our long or short-term financial prospects. At December 31, 2009, we have unrestricted
cash, cash equivalents and cash in escrow of $316,367,000 available for both current liquidity
needs as well as development activities, of which $93,440,000 relates to a Development Right for
which we have not begun construction.

Unrestricted cash and cash equivalents totaled $105,691,000 at December 31, 2009, an increase of
$40,756,000 from $64,935,000 at December 31, 2008. The following discussion relates to changes in
cash due to operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows included elsewhere in this report.

Operating Activities — Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $378,600,000 in
2009 from $386,084,000 in 2008. The decrease was driven primarily by the timing of general
corporate payables and the payment of interest amounts in 2009 as compared to 2008.

Investing Activities — Net cash used in investing activities of $333,559,000 in 2009 related to
investments in assets through development and redevelopment. In total, we invested $572,103,000
during 2009 in the following areas:

•

We invested approximately $560,155,000 in the development of communities.

•

We had capital expenditures of $11,948,000 for real estate and non-real estate assets.

These amounts are partially offset by the proceeds from the disposition of real estate of
$189,417,000.

Financing Activities — Net cash used in financing activities totaled $4,285,000 in 2009. The
net cash used is due primarily to the repayment of unsecured notes at maturity and repayment of
amounts tendered of $868,564,000, the payment of cash dividends in the amount of $283,710,000,
the repayment of amounts outstanding on the Credit Facility, defined below, of $124,000,000, and
the repayment of secured notes of $65,229,000. These amounts were partially offset by the pooled
secured financing executed in April 2009 for $741,140,000, the issuance of $500,000,000
aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes in September and $108,860,000 received from the
issuance of common stock, primarily through the Continuous Equity Program (the “CEP”) we
initiated in August 2009.

Variable Rate Unsecured Credit Facility

We currently have a $1,000,000,000 revolving variable rate Credit Facility with a syndicate of
commercial banks that expires in November 2011 (assuming our exercise of a one-year renewal
option). We pay an annual facility fee of approximately $1,250,000. The Credit Facility bears
interest at varying levels based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), our credit rating
and on a maturity schedule selected by us. The current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.40% per
annum (0.63% on January 31, 2010). The spread over LIBOR can vary from LIBOR plus 0.325% to LIBOR
plus 1.00% based on our credit rating. In addition, a competitive bid option is available for
borrowings of up to $650,000,000. This option allows banks that are part of the lender consortium
to bid to provide us loans at a rate that is lower than the stated pricing provided by the Credit
Facility. The competitive bid option may result in lower pricing if market conditions allow. We
had no outstanding balance under this competitive bid option at January 31, 2010. At January 31,
2010, there were no amounts outstanding on the Credit Facility,


$45,355,000 was used to provide
letters of credit, and $954,645,000 was available for borrowing under the Credit Facility.
We expect to refinance the Credit Facility prior to maturity. While credit market conditions
continue to improve from the difficult environment seen in 2008 and 2009, we expect facility
pricing to be higher, and we may not be able to achieve the same borrowing capacity as exists under
the current Credit Facility.

We are subject to financial and other covenants contained in the Credit Facility and the indenture
under which our unsecured notes were issued. The financial covenants include the following:

•

limitations on the amount of total and secured debt in relation to our overall capital
structure;

•

limitation on the amount of our unsecured debt relative to the undepreciated basis of
real estate assets that are not encumbered by property-specific financing; and

•

minimum levels of debt service coverage.

We were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2009.

In addition, our secured borrowings may include yield maintenance, defeasance, or prepayment
penalty provisions, which would result in us incurring an additional charge in the event of a full
or partial prepayment of outstanding principal before the scheduled maturity. These provisions in
our secured borrowings are generally consistent with other similar types of debt instruments issued
during the same time period in which our borrowings were secured.

Continuous Equity Offering Program

In August 2009, we commenced the CEP, under which we may sell up to $400,000,000 of our common
stock. This program is available until the $400,000,000 is sold or August 2012, whichever occurs
first. We may sell the shares in amounts and at times to be determined by us. Actual sales will
depend on a variety of factors to be determined by us, including market conditions, the trading
price of our common stock and determinations of the appropriate sources of funding. In conjunction
with the CEP, we engaged sales agents who received compensation of 1.5% of the gross sales price
for shares sold. During the three months ended December 31, 2009 we sold 37,900 shares under this
program at an average sales price of $74.34 per share, for net proceeds of $2,775,000. During the
year ended December 31, 2009, we sold 1,504,901 shares under this program at an average sales price
of approximately $69.56 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $103,109,000.

Future Financing and Capital Needs — Debt Maturities

One of our principal long-term liquidity needs is the repayment of long-term debt at the time that
such debt matures. For unsecured notes, a portion of the principal of these notes may be repaid
prior to maturity. Early retirement of our unsecured notes could result in gains or losses on
extinguishment similar to those recognized in 2008 and 2009. If we do not have funds on hand
sufficient to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, it will be necessary for us to refinance
the debt. This refinancing may be accomplished by uncollateralized private or public debt
offerings, additional debt financing that is secured by mortgages on individual communities or
groups of communities, draws on our Credit Facility or by equity offerings. Although we believe we
will have the capacity to meet our currently anticipated liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that
additional debt financing or debt or equity offerings will be available or, if available, that they
will be on terms we consider satisfactory.

The following financing activity occurred during 2009:

•

we obtained secured financing for $741,140,000 pursuant to fourteen separate ten-year
mortgage loans, each secured by one of our current communities at an interest rate of
5.86%;

•

we obtained $93,440,000 in variable rate tax-exempt bond financing related to a
Development Right, the proceeds of which will be held in escrow until requisitioned for
construction funding;

•

we repaid $4,143,000 in 8.08% fixed rate debt secured by a real estate asset formerly
classified as a Development Right in Alexandria, Virginia in April 2009 pursuant to its
scheduled maturity;


•

$46,001,000 principal amount of our $200,000,000 7.5% unsecured notes
due December 2010 at a weighted average price of 107.50% of par;

•

$150,000,000 principal amount of our $300,000,000 6.625% unsecured
notes due September 2011 at a weighted average price of 109.00% of par;

•

$55,600,000 principal amount of our $250,000,000 5.5% unsecured notes
due January 2012 at a weighted average price of 106.25% of par; and

•

$48,399,000 principal amount of our $250,000,000 6.125% unsecured notes
due November 2012 at a weighted average price of 108.75% of par;


The following table details debt maturities for the next five years, excluding our Credit
Facility and amounts outstanding related to communities classified as held for sale, for debt
outstanding at December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands).

All-In

Principal

interest

maturity

Balance outstanding

Scheduled maturities

Community

rate (1)

date

12-31-08

12-31-09






Thereafter

Tax-exempt bonds

Fixed rate

CountryBrook

6.47

%

Mar-2012

$

14,680

$

13,961

$


$


$

12,379

$

—

$

—

$

—

Avalon at Symphony Glen

5.17

%

Jul-2024

9,780

9,780

—

—

—

—

—

9,780

Avalon at Lexington

6.95

%

Feb-2025

11,665

11,226






8,586

Avalon Campbell

6.50

%

Jun-2025

30,914

29,881

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

29,881

Avalon Pacifica

6.51

%

Jun-2025

14,023

13,554

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

13,554

Avalon Fields

7.79

%

May-2027

9,988

9,714






8,010

Avalon Oaks

7.49

%

Feb-2041

16,940

16,794






15,889

Avalon Oaks West

7.54

%

Apr-2043

16,795

16,661






15,847

Avalon at Chestnut Hill

6.15

%

Oct-2047

41,834

41,501






39,555

166,619

163,072

2,175

2,315

13,974

1,698

1,808

141,102

Variable rate

(3)

Avalon Burbank

1.99

%

Oct-2010

30,142

29,387

29,387

—

—

—

—

—

Waterford

1.09

%

Jul-2014

33,100

33,100

(4

)

—

—

—

—

33,100

—

Avalon at Mountain View

1.14

%

Feb-2017

18,300

18,300

(4

)

—

—

—

—

—

18,300

Avalon at Mission Viejo

1.44

%

Jun-2025

7,635

7,635

(4

)

—

—

—

—

—

7,635

Avalon at Nob Hill

1.31

%

Jun-2025

20,800

20,800

(4

)

—

—

—

—

—

20,800

Avalon Campbell

2.10

%

Jun-2025

7,886

8,919

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

8,919

Avalon Pacifica

2.12

%

Jun-2025

3,577

4,046

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

4,046

Avalon Bowery Place I

1.35

%

Nov-2037

93,800

93,800

—

—

—

—

—

93,800

Avalon Bowery Place II

1.57

%

Nov-2039

48,500

48,500

(5

)

—

—

—

—

—

48,500

Avalon Acton

1.67

%

Jul-2040

45,000

45,000

(5

)

—

—

—

—

—

45,000

Avalon Morningside Park

3.00

%

Nov-2040

100,000

100,000

(5

)

—

—

—

—

—

100,000

West Chelsea

0.18

%

May-2012

—

93,440

(5

)

—

—

93,440

—

—

—

Avalon Walnut Creek

2.95

%

Mar-2046

116,000

116,000

(5

)

—

—

—

—

—

116,000

Avalon Walnut Creek

2.89

%

Mar-2046

10,000

10,000

(5

)

—

—

—

—

—

10,000

534,740

628,927

29,387

—

93,440

—

33,100

473,000

Conventional loans (6)

Fixed rate

$150 million unsecured notes

—

Aug-2009

140,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

$200 million unsecured notes

7.67

%

Dec-2010

200,000

14,576

(7

) (12)

14,576

—

—

—

—

—

$300 million unsecured notes

6.79

%

Sep-2011

300,000

39,900

(8

) (12)

—

39,900

—

—

—

—

$50 million unsecured notes

6.31

%

Sep-2011

50,000

—

(12

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

$250 million unsecured notes

5.74

%

Jan-2012

235,000

104,400

(9

) (12)

—

—

104,400

—

—

—

$250 million unsecured notes

6.26

%

Nov-2012

250,000

201,601

(10

)

—

—

201,601

—

—

—

$100 million unsecured notes

5.11

%

Mar-2013

100,000

100,000

—

—

—

100,000

—

—

$150 million unsecured notes

5.52

%

Apr-2014

150,000

150,000

—

—

—

—

150,000

—

$250 million unsecured notes

5.89

%

Sep-2016

250,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

250,000

$250 million unsecured notes

5.82

%

Mar-2017

—

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

250,000

$250 million unsecured notes

6.19

%

Mar-2020

—

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

250,000

Avalon at Twinbrook

7.25

%

Oct-2011

7,801

7,578


7,339

—

—

—

—

Avalon at Tysons West

5.55

%

Jul-2028

6,218

6,045






5,020

4600 Eisenhower Avenue

—

Apr-2009

4,175

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Avalon Orchards

7.77

%

Jul-2033

19,322

19,011






17,092

Avalon at Arlington Square

4.81

%

Apr-2013

170,125

170,125

—

—

—

170,125

—

—

Avalon at Cameron Court

5.07

%

Apr-2013

94,572

94,572

—

—

—

94,572

—

—

Avalon Crescent

5.59

%

May-2015

110,600

110,600

—

—

—

—

—

110,600

Avalon Silicon Valley

5.74

%

Jul-2015

150,000

150,000

—

—

—

—

—

150,000

Avalon Darien

6.22

%

Nov-2015

51,749

51,172






47,428

Avalon Greyrock Place

6.13

%

Nov-2015

62,400

61,690





1,031

57,102

Avalon Commons

6.09

%

Jan-2019

55,100

55,100

—





52,068

Avalon Walnut Creek

4.00

%

Jul-2066

2,500

2,500

—

—

—

—

—

2,500

Avalon Shrewsbury

5.92

%

May-2019

—

21,130

—





20,042

Avalon Gates

5.93

%

May-2019

—

41,321

—





39,194

Avalon at Stamford Harbor

5.92

%

May-2019

—

65,695

—





62,313

Avalon Freehold

5.94

%

May-2019

—

36,630

—





34,745

Avalon Run East II

5.94

%

May-2019

—

39,250

—





37,230

Avalon Gardens

6.06

%

May-2019

—

66,237

—




1,000

62,828

Avalon Edgewater

6.10

%

May-2019

—

78,565

—


1,058

1,120

1,186

74,522

Avalon Foxhall

6.05

%

May-2019

—

59,010

—





55,973

Avalon Gallery Place I

6.05

%

May-2019

—

45,850

—





43,490

Avalon Traville

5.91

%

May-2019

—

77,700

—


1,047

1,108

1,173

73,700

Avalon Bellevue

5.91

%

May-2019

—

26,698

—





25,323

Avalon on the Alameda

5.91

%

May-2019

—

53,980

—





51,201

Avalon Mission Bay North

5.90

%

May-2019

—

73,269

—



1,045

1,106

69,498

Avalon Woburn

5.91

%

May-2019

—

55,805

—





52,933

2,409,562

2,830,010

16,802

56,451

318,966

378,434

164,555

1,894,802

Variable rate

(3)

Avalon at Flanders Hill

—

May-2009

19,735

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Avalon at Newton Highlands

—

Dec-2009

34,945

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Avalon at Crane Brook

2.11

%

Mar-2011

31,530

30,440

(4

)

1,169

29,271

—

—

—

—

Avalon at Bedford Center

1.74

%

May-2012

16,361

15,871

(4

)



14,784

—

—

—

Avalon Walnut Creek

3.03

%

Mar-2046

9,000

9,000

(5

)

—

—

—

—

—

9,000

$105.6 million unsecured notes

—

May-2009

105,600

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

$112.2 million unsecured notes

—

Jan-2010

112,200

—

(11

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

$112.2 million unsecured notes

—

Jan-2011

112,200

—

(11

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

$200 Million unsecured notes

7.034

%

Dec-2010

—

75,000

(12

)

75,000

—

—

—

—

—

$300 Million unsecured notes

5.663

%

Sep-2011

—

100,000

(12

)

—

100,000

—

—

—

—

$50 Million unsecured notes

5.663

%

Sep-2011

—

50,000

(12

)

—

50,000

—

—

—

—

$250 Million unsecured notes

4.352

%

Jan-2012

—

75,000

(12

)

—

—

75,000

—

—

—

441,571

355,311

76,696

179,831

89,784

—

—

9,000

Total indebtedness — excluding unsecured credit facility

$

3,552,492

$

3,977,320

$

125,060

$

238,597

$

516,164

$

380,132

$

199,463

$

2,517,904

(1)

Includes credit enhancement fees, facility fees, trustees’ fees and other fees.


(2)

Financed by variable rate, tax-exempt debt, but the interest rate on a portion of this debt is
effectively fixed at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 through an interest rate swap
agreement. The portion of the debt fixed through the interest rate swap agreement decreases (and
therefore the variable portion of the debt increases) monthly as payments are made to a principal
reserve fund.

(3)

Variable rates are given as of December 31, 2009.

(4)

Financed by variable rate debt, but interest rate is capped through an interest rate protection
agreement.

(5)

Represents full amount of the debt as of December 31, 2009. Actual amounts drawn on the debt
as of December 31, 2009 are $46,216 for Bowery Place II, $44,678 for Avalon Acton, $88,823 for
Morningside Park, $64,080 for Walnut Creek, and $0 for West Chelsea.

(6)

Balances outstanding represent total amounts due at maturity, and are not net of $2,448 of debt
discount and basis adjustments associated with the hedged unsecured notes as of December 31, 2009
and $2,035 of debt discount as of December 31, 2008, as reflected in unsecured notes on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets included elsewhere in this report.

(7)

In October 2009, we redeemed $46,001 principal amount of our $200,000 7.5% unsecured notes due
December 2010.

(8)

In October 2009, we redeemed $160,100 principal amount of our $300,000 6.625% unsecured notes
due September 2011.

(9)

In October 2009, we redeemed $55,600 principal amount of our $250,000 5.5% unsecured notes due
January 2012.

(10)

In October 2009, we redeemed $48,399 principal amount of our $250,000 6.125% unsecured notes
due November 2012.

(11)

In August and October 2009, we repaid $224,400 in unsecured debt, representing the second and
third tranches of our term loan, prior to its scheduled maturities in January 2010 and 2011,
respectively.

(12)

In October 2009, we executed $300,000 of interest rate swaps allowing us to effectively
convert $300,000 principal of our fixed rate unsecured notes to floating rate debt.

Future Financing and Capital Needs — Portfolio and Other Activity

As of December 31, 2009, we had seven new wholly owned communities under construction, for
which a total estimated cost of $245,046,000 remained to be invested. We also had seven wholly
owned communities under reconstruction, for which a total estimated cost of $49,527,000 remained to
be invested. In addition, we may be required to contribute our proportionate share of capital to
Fund II, if or to the extent that Fund II makes capital calls in conjunction with additional
community acquisitions during 2010. Substantially all of the capital expenditures necessary to
complete the communities currently under construction and reconstruction, development costs related
to pursuing Development Rights, as well as for equity contributions to Fund II, will be funded
from:

Before planned reconstruction activity, including reconstruction activity related to communities
acquired by the Funds, or the construction of a Development Right begins, we intend to arrange
adequate financing to complete these undertakings, although we cannot assure you that we will be
able to obtain such financing. In the event that financing cannot be obtained, we may have to
abandon Development Rights, write off associated pre-development costs that were capitalized and/or
forego reconstruction activity. In such instances, we will not realize the increased revenues and
earnings that we expected from such Development Rights or reconstruction activity and significant
losses could be incurred.

From time to time we use joint ventures to hold or develop individual real estate assets. We
generally employ joint ventures primarily to mitigate asset concentration or market risk and
secondarily as a source of liquidity. We may also use joint ventures related to mixed-use land
development opportunities where our partners bring development and operational expertise to the
venture. Each joint venture or partnership agreement has been individually negotiated, and our
ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying


degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture or partnership agreement. We cannot assure you
that we will achieve our objectives through joint ventures.

In evaluating our allocation of capital within our markets, we sell assets that do not meet our
long-term investment criteria or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion
of the value created over the past business cycle and redeploy the proceeds from those sales to
develop and redevelop communities. Because the proceeds from the sale of communities may not be
immediately redeployed into revenue generating assets, the immediate effect of a sale of a community for a gain is to increase net
income, but reduce future total revenues, total expenses and NOI. However, we believe that the
absence of future cash flows from communities sold will have a minimal impact on our ability to
fund future liquidity and capital resource needs.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In addition to our investment interests in consolidated and unconsolidated real estate
entities, we have certain off-balance sheet arrangements with the entities in which we invest.
Additional discussion of these entities can be found in Note 6, “Investments in Real Estate
Entities,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements located elsewhere in this report.

•

CVP I, LLC has outstanding tax-exempt, variable rate bonds maturing in November 2036 in
the amount of $117,000,000, which have permanent credit enhancement. We have agreed to
guarantee, under limited circumstances, the repayment to the credit enhancer of any
advances it may make in fulfillment of CVP I, LLC’s repayment obligations under the bonds

.

We have also guaranteed to the credit enhancer that CVP I, LLC will obtain a final
certificate of occupancy for the project (Chrystie Place in New York City), which is
expected in 2010. Our 80% partner in this venture has agreed that it will reimburse us
its pro rata share of any amounts paid relative to these guaranteed obligations. The
estimated fair value of and our obligation under these guarantees, both at inception and
as of December 31, 2009, were not significant. As a result we have not recorded any
obligation associated with these guarantees at December 31, 2009.

•

Subsidiaries of Fund I have 21 loans secured by individual assets with amounts
outstanding in the aggregate of $436,410,000, with varying maturity dates (or dates after
which the loans can be prepaid), ranging from October 2011 to September 2016. These
mortgage loans are secured by the underlying real estate. The mortgage loans are payable
by the subsidiaries of Fund I with operating cash flow or disposition proceeds from the
underlying real estate. We have not guaranteed the debt of Fund I, nor do we have any
obligation to fund this debt should Fund I be unable to do so.

In addition, as part of the formation of Fund I, we have provided to one of the limited
partners a guarantee. The guarantee provides that if, upon final liquidation of Fund I,
the total amount of all distributions to that partner during the life of Fund I (whether
from operating cash flow or property sales) does not equal a minimum of the total capital
contributions made by that partner, then we will pay the partner an amount equal to the
shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total capital contributions made by the
partner (maximum of approximately $7,500,000 as of December 31, 2009). As of December 31,
2009, the expected realizable value of the real estate assets owned by Fund I is considered
adequate to cover such potential payment to that partner under the expected Fund I
liquidation scenario. The estimated fair value of, and our obligation under this
guarantee, both at inception and as of December 31, 2009 was not significant and therefore we have not recorded any obligation for this guarantee as
of December 31, 2009.

•

A subsidiary of Fund II has one loan secured by an asset in the amount of $21,515,000
with a maturity of June 2019. This loan is payable by the subsidiary of Fund II. As of
December 31, 2009, Fund II also has $30,200,000 outstanding under a credit facility that
matures in December 2010. The mortgage loan is payable by the subsidiary of Fund II with
operating cash flow or disposition proceeds from the underlying real estate, and the
credit facility is payable by Fund II and is secured by capital commitments. We have not
guaranteed, beyond our proportionate share of capital commitments supporting the credit
facility of Fund II, the debt of Fund II, nor do we have any obligation to fund this debt
should Fund II be unable to do so.


There are no other lines of credit, side agreements, financial guarantees or any other derivative
financial instruments related to or between our unconsolidated real estate entities and us. In
evaluating our capital structure and overall leverage, management takes into consideration our
proportionate share of this unconsolidated debt.

Contractual Obligations

In 2009, we entered into a lease agreement for office space in Arlington, Virginia. The office
space will serve as our corporate headquarters, with relocation scheduled to occur in the first
half of 2010. The lease has a ten year lease term, with extension rights, with rent of
approximately $1,900,000 annually. We are marketing for lease or sale the building that serves as
our current headquarters in Alexandria, Virginia. Aside from this lease, there have not been any
other material changes outside of the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations
during 2009.


Scheduled contractual obligations required for the next five years and thereafter are as
follows as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands):

Payments due by period

Total

Less than 1 Year

1-3 Years

3-5 Years

More than 5 Years

Debt Obligations

$

3,977,320

$

125,060

$

754,761

$

579,595

$

2,517,904

Operating Lease Obligations (1)

3,412,947

20,732

50,815

53,850

3,287,550

Total

$

7,390,267

$

145,792

$

805,576

$

633,445

$

5,805,454

(1)

Includes land leases expiring between October 2026 and March 2142. Amounts do not include
any adjustment for purchase options available under the land leases.

Inflation and Deflation

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. In an inflationary
environment, this may allow us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the
beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the adverse effects of
inflation, although these leases generally permit residents to leave at the end of the lease term
and therefore expose us to the effect of a decline in market rents. In a deflationary rent
environment, we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under these shorter-term leases.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by our use
of the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “assume,” “project,” “plan,”
“may,” “shall,” “will” and other similar expressions in this Form 10-K, that predict or indicate
future events and trends and that do not report historical matters. These statements include,
among other things, statements regarding our intent, belief or expectations with respect to:

We cannot assure the future results or outcome of the matters described in these statements;
rather, these statements merely reflect our current expectations of the approximate outcomes of the
matters discussed. In addition, these


forward-looking statements represent our estimates and
assumptions only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake a duty to update these
forward-looking statements, and therefore they may not represent our estimates and assumptions
after the date of this report. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our
control. These risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or
achievements to differ materially from the anticipated future results, performance or achievements
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. In addition to the factors referred to
below, you should carefully review the discussion under Item 1a., “Risk Factors,” in this document
for a discussion of additional risks associated with our business and these forward-looking
statements.

Some of the factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include, but are not
limited to, the following:

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to use judgment
in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. If our
judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been
different, or different assumptions were made, it is possible that different accounting policies
would have been applied, resulting in different financial results or a different presentation of
our financial statements. Below is a discussion of the accounting policies that we consider
critical to an understanding of our financial condition and operating results that may require
complex or significant judgment in their application or require estimates about matters which are
inherently uncertain. A discussion of our significant accounting policies, including further
discussion of the accounting policies described below, can be found in Note 1, “Organization and
Basis of Presentation” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Principles of Consolidation

We may enter into various joint venture agreements with unrelated third parties to hold or develop
real estate assets. We must determine for each of these ventures whether to consolidate the entity
or account for our investment under the equity or cost basis of accounting.

We determine whether to consolidate certain entities based on our rights and obligations under the
joint venture agreements, applying the applicable accounting guidance. For investment interests
that we do not consolidate, we


evaluate the guidance to determine the accounting framework to
apply. The application of the rules in evaluating the accounting treatment for each joint venture
is complex and requires substantial management judgment. Therefore, we believe the decision to
choose an appropriate accounting framework is a critical accounting estimate.

If we were to consolidate the joint ventures that we accounted for using the equity method at
December 31, 2009, our assets would have increased by $1,030,260,000 and our liabilities would have
increased by $778,156,000. We would be required to consolidate those joint ventures currently not
consolidated for financial reporting purposes if the facts and circumstances changed, including but
not limited to the following reasons, none of which are currently expected to occur:

•

For entities not considered to be variable interest entities, the nature of the entity
changed such that it would be considered a variable interest entity and if we were
considered the primary beneficiary.

•

For entities in which we do not hold a controlling voting and/or variable interest, the
contractual arrangement changed resulting in our investment interest being either a
controlling voting and/or variable interest.

We evaluate our accounting for investments on a quarterly basis or when a significant change in the
design of an entity occurs.

Cost Capitalization

We capitalize costs during the development of assets beginning when we determine that development
of a future asset is probable until the asset, or a portion of the asset, is delivered and is ready
for its intended use. For redevelopment efforts, we capitalize costs either (i) in advance of
taking homes out of service when significant renovation of the common area has begun until the
redevelopment is completed, or (ii) when an apartment home is taken out of service for
redevelopment until the redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is available for a new
resident. Rental income and operating expenses incurred during the initial lease-up or
post-redevelopment lease-up period are fully recognized as they accrue.

During the development and redevelopment efforts we capitalize all direct costs and indirect costs
which have been incurred as a result of the development and redevelopment activities. These costs
include interest and related loan fees, property taxes as well as other direct and indirect costs.
Interest is capitalized for any project specific financing, as well as for general corporate
financing to the extent of our aggregate investment in the projects. Indirect project costs,
which include personnel and office and administrative costs that are clearly associated with our
development and redevelopment efforts, are also capitalized. The estimation of the direct and
indirect costs to capitalize as part of our development and redevelopment activities requires
judgment and, as such, we believe cost capitalization to be a critical accounting estimate.

There may be a change in our operating expenses in the event that there are changes in accounting
guidance governing capitalization or changes to our levels of development or redevelopment
activity. If changes in the accounting guidance limit our ability to capitalize costs or if we
reduce our development and redevelopment activities without a corresponding decrease in indirect
project costs, there may be an increase in our operating expenses. For example, if in 2009 our
development activities decreased by 10%, and there were no corresponding decrease in our indirect
project costs, our operating expenses would have increased by $2,493,200.

We capitalize pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of Development Rights. These costs include
legal fees, design fees and related overhead costs. Future development of these pursuits is
dependent upon various factors, including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market conditions,
construction costs and availability of capital. Pre-development costs incurred for pursuits for
which future development is not yet considered probable are
expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future
development no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written off with a charge
to expense.

Due to the subjectivity in determining whether a pursuit will result in the development of an
apartment community, and therefore should be capitalized, the accounting for pursuit costs is a
critical accounting estimate. If we had


determined that 10% of our capitalized pursuit costs were
associated with Development Rights that were no longer probable of occurring, net income for the
year ended December 31, 2009 would have decreased by $8,776,300.

Abandoned Pursuit Costs & Asset Impairment

We capitalize pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new development opportunities for which
we currently believe future development is probable. Future development of these Development Rights
is dependent upon various factors, including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market
conditions, construction costs and the availability of capital. Pre-development costs incurred for
pursuits for which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In
addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future development by us no longer
probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written off with a charge to expense. We
expensed costs related to abandoned pursuits, which includes the abandonment of Development Rights
and disposition pursuits, in the amounts of $5,842,000 in 2009 and $12,511,000 in 2008. These costs
are included in operating expenses, excluding property taxes on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. Abandoned pursuit costs can vary greatly,
and the costs incurred in any given period may be significantly different in future years.

During 2009, we concluded that the continued economic downturn and the related decline in
employment levels did not support the development and construction of certain new apartment
communities that were previously in planning. This resulted in the recognition of an impairment
charge of $20,302,000 related to the impairment of two land parcels which we currently do not
intend to develop. We looked to third-party pricing estimates to determine the fair values of the
land parcels considered to be impaired. Given the heterogeneous nature of multifamily real estate,
the third party values incorporated significant other unobservable inputs and are therefore
considered to be Level 3 prices in the fair value hierarchy. In addition, in 2009 we recognized a
further impairment charge of $850,000 on a land parcel for which an earlier impairment had been
recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008. The additional impairment charge reduces our carrying
basis to its current estimated selling price less costs to dispose.

Our focus on value creation through real estate development presents an impairment risk in the
event of a future deterioration of the real estate and/or capital markets or a decision by us to
reduce or cease development. We cannot predict the occurrence of future events that may cause an
impairment assessment to be performed, or the likelihood of any future impairment charges, if any.
You should also review Item 1a., “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K.

REIT Status

We are a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated, for federal income tax purposes, as a
REIT. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code for the year ended December 31, 1994 and
have not revoked such election. A corporate REIT is a legal entity which holds real estate
interests and must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a
requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its adjusted taxable income to
stockholders. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income tax on
taxable income if we distribute 100% of taxable income to our stockholders over time periods
allowed under the Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to
federal and state income taxes at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative
minimum tax) and may not be able to elect to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.
For example, if we failed to qualify as a REIT in 2009, our net income would have decreased by
approximately $62,000,000.

Our qualification as a REIT requires management to exercise significant judgment and consideration
with respect to operational matters and accounting treatment. Therefore, we believe our REIT
status is a critical accounting estimate.

ITEM 7a. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to market risks from our financial instruments primarily from changes in market
interest rates. We do not have exposure to any other significant market risk. We monitor interest
rate risk as an integral part of our overall risk management, which recognizes the unpredictability
of financial markets and seek to reduce the


potentially adverse effect on our results of
operations. Our operating results are affected by changes in interest rates, primarily, in
short-term LIBOR and the SIFMA index as a result of borrowings under our Credit Facility and
outstanding bonds with variable interest rates. In addition the fair value of our fixed rate
unsecured and secured notes are impacted by changes in market interest rates. The effect of
interest rate fluctuations on our results of operations historically has been small relative to
other factors affecting operating results, such as rental rates and occupancy.

We currently use interest rate protection agreements (consisting of interest rate swap and interest
rate cap agreements) for our risk management objectives, as well as for compliance with the
requirements of certain lenders, and not for trading or speculative purposes. In the fourth quarter
of 2009, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert fixed rate borrowings to
effective floating rate notes. In addition, we have interest rate caps and interest rate swaps that
serve to either convert floating rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings, or effectively limit the
amount of interest rate expense we would incur on a floating rate borrowing. Further discussion of
the financial instruments impacted and our exposure is presented below.

We had $1,271,273,000 and $1,088,848,000 in variable rate debt outstanding (excluding variable rate
debt effectively fixed through swap agreements and including fixed rate debt effectively swapped to
variable rates through swap agreements) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. If
interest rates on the variable rate debt had been 100 basis points higher throughout 2009 and 2008,
our annual interest costs would have increased by approximately $9,079,000 and $11,490,000,
respectively, based on balances outstanding during the applicable years.

As of December 31, 2009, we had executed interest rate swap agreements to hedge cash flow
variability for approximately $43,435,000 of our variable rate, tax-exempt debt and executed
interest rate swap agreements to hedge fair value exposure for approximately $300,000,000 of our
fixed rate unsecured notes. Had these interest rate swap agreements not been in place during 2009
and 2008, our annual interest costs would have been approximately $1,492,000 higher and $1,451,000
lower, respectively, based on balances outstanding and reported interest rates during the
applicable years. Additionally, if the variable interest rates on hedged floating rate debt had
been 100 basis points higher throughout 2009 and 2008 and these swap agreements had not been in
place, our annual interest costs would have been approximately $2,054,000 higher and $887,000
lower, respectively.

Because the counterparties providing the interest rate cap and swap agreements are major financial
institutions which have an A+ or better credit rating by the Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group and
the current valuation of the position is a net liability for us, we do not believe there is
exposure at this time to a default by a counterparty provider.

In addition, changes in interest rates affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt, computed using
a discounted cash flow model considering our current market yields, which impacts the fair value of
our aggregate indebtedness. Debt securities and notes payable (excluding amounts outstanding under
our Credit Facility) with an aggregate carrying value of $3,977,320,000 at December 31, 2009 had an
estimated aggregate fair value of $4,052,817,000 at December 31, 2009. Contractual fixed rate debt
represented $3,249,647,000 of the carrying value and $3,352,312,000 of the fair value at December
31, 2009. If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher as of December 31, 2009, the fair
value of this fixed rate debt would have decreased by $159,030,000.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9a. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

. As required by Rule 13a-15 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the
Company carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls
and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or
submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. We continue to
review and document our disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control
over financial reporting, and may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their
effectiveness and to ensure that our systems evolve with our business.

(b)

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

. Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 based on the framework in
Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.

Our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 has been audited by Ernst
& Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
is included elsewhere herein.

(c)

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

. There was no change in our internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of the period covered
by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9b. OTHER INFORMATION

None.


PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by Item 10 pertaining to directors and executive officers of the Company
and the Company’s Code of Conduct is incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy
Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of
the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to
be held on May 19, 2010.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by Item 11 pertaining to executive compensation is incorporated herein by
reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 19, 2010.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

The information required by Item 12 pertaining to security ownership of management and certain
beneficial owners of the Company’s common stock is incorporated herein by reference to the
Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after the end of the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 19, 2010, to the extent not set forth below.

The Company maintains the 2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the “2009 Plan”) and the 1996
Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”), pursuant to which common stock or other
equity awards may be issued or granted to eligible persons.

The following table gives information about equity awards under the 2009 Plan, the Company’s prior
1994 Stock Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”) under which awards were previously made, and the ESPP
as of December 31, 2009:

(b)

(c)

Weighted-

Number of securities

(a)

average

remaining available for

Number of securities

exercise price

future issuance under

to be issued upon

of outstanding

equity compensation

exercise of

options,

plans (excluding

outstanding options,

warrants and

securities reflected in

Plan category

warrants and rights

rights

column (a))

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders

(1)

2,964,394

(2)

$

80.76

(3)

4,164,064

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

(4)

—

n/a

755,484

Total

2,964,394

$

80.76

(3)

4,919,548

(1)

Consists of the 2009 Plan and the 1994 Plan.

(2)

Includes 128,141 deferred units granted under the 2009 Plan and the 1994 Plan, which, subject
to vesting requirements, will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis,
but does not include 244,640 shares of restricted stock that are outstanding and that are
already reflected in the Company’s outstanding shares.


(3)

Excludes deferred units granted under the 2009 Plan and the 1994 Plan, which, subject to
vesting requirements, will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis.

(4)

Consists of the ESPP.

The ESPP, which was adopted by the Board of Directors on October 29, 1996, has not been approved by
our shareholders. A further description of the ESPP appears in Note 10, “Stock-Based Compensation
Plans,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by Item 13 pertaining to certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this Form 10-K with
respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 19, 2010.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by Item 14 pertaining to the fees paid to and services provided by the
Company’s principal accountant is incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year
covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 19,
2010.


PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

15(a)(1)

Financial Statements

Index to Financial Statements

Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule:

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-8

15(a)(2)

Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

F-37

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulation of the
Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions or are
inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.

15(a)(3)

Exhibits

The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as a part of this report.


INDEX TO EXHIBITS

3(i).1

—

Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Articles of Incorporation of the
Company, dated as of June 4, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i).1 to
Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

3(i).2

—

Articles of Amendment, dated as of October 2, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3(i).2 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

3(ii).1

—

Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as adopted by the Board of Directors
on May 21, 2009. (Filed herewith.)

3(ii).2

—

Amendment to Amended and Restated Bylaws of AvalonBay Communities, Inc., dated
February 10, 2010. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K of the Company
filed February 12, 2010.)

4.1

—

Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of January 16, 1998, between
the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File No.
333-139839), filed January 8, 2007.)

4.2

—

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 20, 1998, between the
Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.2 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File No.
333-139839), filed January 8, 2007.)

4.3

—

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 7, 1998, between the Company
and State Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.3 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File No. 333-139839),
filed January 8, 2007.)

4.4

—

Amended and Restated Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 10, 2000
between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File
No. 333-139839), filed January 8, 2007.)

4.5

—

Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 18, 2006, between the
Company and U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.5 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File No. 333-139839),
filed January 8, 2007.)

4.6

—

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan of the Company. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 8.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File
No. 333-87063), filed September 14, 1999.)

4.7

—

Amendment to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
filed on December 17, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement
filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 on December 17, 1999.)

4.8

—

Amendment to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
filed on March 26, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed
pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 on March 26, 2004.)


4.9

—

Amendment to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
filed on May 15, 2006. (Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed
pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 on May 15, 2006.)

10.1

—

Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement, dated August 6, 2003, among the
Company and the Agents, including Administrative Procedures, relating to the MTNs.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 2,
2009.)

10.2

—

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of AvalonBay Value Added
Fund, L.P., dated as of March 16, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.3

—

Term Loan Agreement, dated May 15, 2008, among the Company, as Borrower,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation,
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, each as a
Documentation Agent, the other banks signatory thereto, each as a Bank, J.P. Morgan
Securities, Inc., as Sole Bookrunner and Lead Arranger, and Bank of America, N.A., as
Administrative Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K of the
Company filed May 19, 2008.)

10.4

—

Master Cross-Collateralization Agreement, dated as of April 24, 2009,
between Deutsche Bank Berkshire Mortgage, Inc., parties identified on Exhibit
A-Schedule 1 attached thereto, and Shady Grove Financing, LLC. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed August 10, 2009.)

10.5

—

Master Substitution Agreement, dated April 23, 2009, between Deutsche Bank
Berkshire Mortgage, Inc., AvalonBay Traville, LLC and the entities identified on
Schedule B attached thereto. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q of
the Company filed August 10, 2009.)

10.6

—

Form of Multifamily Note, dated April 24, 2009. (Used in connection with the
properties identified on Exhibit B to the Master Cross-Collateralization Agreement
dated April 24, 2009.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q of the
Company filed August 10, 2009.)

10.7

—

Form of Guaranty, dated April 24, 2009. (Used in connection with the
properties identified on Exhibit B to the Master Cross-Collateralization Agreement
dated April 24, 2009.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-Q of the
Company filed August 10, 2009.)

10.8+

—

Endorsement Split Dollar Agreements and Amendments thereto with Messrs.
Blair, Naughton, Fuller, Sargeant, Horey and Meyer (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.9+

—

Form of Amendment to Endorsement Split Dollar Agreement with Messrs. Blair,
Naughton, Sargeant, and Horey. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-K
of the Company filed March 2, 2009.)

10.10+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2003, between the Company and Thomas J.
Sargeant. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 3 to the
Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-103755), filed July 7,
2003.)


10.11+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Thomas J.
Sargeant, dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.12+

—

Form of Second Amendment to Employment Agreements between the Company and Certain
Executive Officers. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to form 8-K of the
Company filed May 22, 2008.)

10.13+

—

Third Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Thomas J.
Sargeant, dated as of December 14, 2008. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to
Form 10-K of the Company filed March 2, 2009.)

10.14+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of January 10, 2003, between the Company and Bryce
Blair. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Form 10-K of the Company filed
March 2, 2009.)

10.15+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Bryce Blair, dated
as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q of the
Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.16+

—

Third Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Bryce Blair, dated
as of December 14, 2008. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K of
the Company filed March 2, 2009.)

10.17+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of February 26, 2001, between the Company and
Timothy J. Naughton. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-K of the
Company filed March 1, 2007.)

10.18+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Timothy J.
Naughton, dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.19+

—

Third Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Timothy J.
Naughton, dated as of December 14, 2008. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15
to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 2, 2009.)

10.20+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2001, between the Company and Leo
S. Horey. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Form 10-K of the Company
filed March 1, 2007.)

10.21+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Leo S. Horey,
dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Form 10-Q of
the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.22+

—

Third Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Leo S. Horey,
dated as of December 14, 2008.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to Form
10-K of the Company filed March 2, 2009.)

10.23+

—

Retirement Agreement, dated as of March 24, 2000, between the Company and Gilbert
M. Meyer. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Form 10-K of the Company filed
March 1, 2007.)

10.24+

—

First Amendment to Retirement Agreement between the Company and Gilbert M. Meyer,
dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-Q of
the Company filed May 6, 2005.)


10.25+

—

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K of the Company filed May 28, 2009.)

10.26+

—

Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement (2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan).
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 of the
Company filed May 22, 2009.)

10.27+

—

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (2009 Stock Option and Incentive
Plan). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Registration Statement on Form
S-8 of the Company filed May 22, 2009.)

10.28+

—

Form of Stock Grant and Restricted Stock Agreement (2009 Stock Option and
Incentive Plan). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Registration Statement
on Form S-8 of the Company filed May 22, 2009.)

10.29+

—

Form of Director Restricted Stock Agreement (2009 Stock Option and Incentive
Plan). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Registration Statement on Form
S-8 of the Company filed May 22, 2009.)

10.30+

—

Form of Director Restricted Unit Agreement (2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan).
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 of
the Company filed May 22, 2009.)

10.31+

—

1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated June 26, 1997, as amended
and restated. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Post-effective Amendment
No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 of the Company (File No. 333-16837), filed
June 26, 1997.)

10.32+

—

1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan — Plan Information Statement dated
June 26, 1997. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Registration Statement on
Form S-8 of the Company (File No. 333-16837), filed November 26, 1996.)

10.33+

—

Form of Addendum to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option
Agreement for Certain Officers. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to Form
10-K of the Company filed March 2, 2009.)

10.34+

—

Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and its Directors. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed November 9, 2005.)

10.35+

—

The Company’s Officer Severance Plan, as amended and restated on November 18,
2008. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to Registration Statement on Form
10-K of the Company filed March 2, 2009.)

10.36+

—

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in
full on December 8, 2004 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to Form 10-K of
the Company filed March 2, 2009.)

10.37+

—

Amendment dated February 9, 2006, to the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock
Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on December 8, 2004. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.32 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 14, 2006.)


10.38+

—

Amendment, dated December 6, 2006, to the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock
Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on December 8, 2004. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.22 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

10.39+

—

Amendment, dated September 20, 2007, to the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock
Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on December 8, 2004. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed November 9, 2007.)

10.40+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (1994
Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 12, 2008.)

10.41+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Incentive Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock
Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 12, 2008.)

10.42+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Grant and Restricted Stock
Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated.) (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.33 of Form 10-K of the Company filed March 2, 2009.)

10.43+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Director Restricted Unit Agreement (1994 Stock
Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4
to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 9, 2007.)

10.44+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Director Restricted Stock Agreement (1994
Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 9, 2007.)

10.45

—

Second Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement, dated as of November
14, 2006, among the Company, as Borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Wachovia Bank,
National Association, each as a Bank and Syndication Agent, Bank of America, N.A., as a
Bank, Swing Lender and Issuing Bank, Morgan Stanley Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, National
Association, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, each as a Bank and Documentation
Agent, the other banks signatory thereto, each as a Bank, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc.,
as Sole Bookrunner and Lead Arranger, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative
Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K of the Company filed
November 17, 2006.)

10.46

—

First Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Revolving Loan
Agreement, dated as of November 13, 2007, among the Company, as Borrower, the banks
signatory thereto, each as a Bank, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K of the Company filed November
16, 2007.)

10.47+

—

Rules and Procedures for Non-Employee Directors’ Deferred Compensation Program.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1,
2007.)

10.48+

—

Amendment to Rules and Procedures for Non-Employee Directors’ Deferred
Compensation Program adopted December 11, 2008. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.38 to Form 10-K of the Company field March 2, 2009.)


10.49+

—

Amendment, effective September 30, 2007, to the Company’s quarterly compensation
of Non-Employee Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed November 9, 2007.)

10.50+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 2008 Performance Plan Deferred Stock Award
Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K of the Company filed
May 22, 2008).

10.51+

—

Amended and Restated AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 2,
2009.)

12.1

—

Statements re: Computation of Ratios. (Filed herewith.)

21.1

—

Schedule of Subsidiaries of the Company. (Filed herewith.)

23.1

—

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP. (Filed herewith.)

31.1

—

Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(Chief Executive Officer). (Filed herewith.)

31.2

—

Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(Chief Financial Officer). (Filed herewith.)


—

Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer). (Furnished herewith.)


—

XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language). The following materials from
AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2009, formatted in XBRL: (i) consolidated balance sheets, (ii) consolidated
statements of operations, (iii) consolidated statements of cash flows, (iv)
consolidated changes in stockholders’ equity, and (v) notes to consolidated financial
statements.

*

+

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed or incorporated
by reference as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of Form 10-K.

*

As provided in Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this information is furnished and not filed for
purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

AvalonBay Communities, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations and other
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. at December 31, 2009
and 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2009 in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
March 1, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

McLean, Virginia

March 1, 2010

F - 1

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

AvalonBay Communities, Inc.:

We have audited AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).
AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting in Item 9a. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, AvalonBay Communities, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria

.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations and other
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2009 of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. and our report dated March 1,
2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

McLean, Virginia

March 1, 2010

F - 2

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

12-31-09

12-31-08

ASSETS

Real estate:

Land

$

1,250,679

$

1,119,221

Buildings and improvements

5,988,330

5,281,134

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

186,301

170,466

7,425,310

6,570,821

Less accumulated depreciation

(1,477,772

)

(1,268,557

)

Net operating real estate

5,947,538

5,302,264

Construction in progress, including land

531,299

867,040

Land held for development

237,095

239,456

Operating real estate assets held for sale, net

117,555

240,983

Total real estate, net

6,833,487

6,649,743

Cash and cash equivalents

105,691

64,935

Cash in escrow

210,676

192,681

Resident security deposits

23,646

29,708

Investments in unconsolidated real estate entities

74,570

55,025

Deferred financing costs, net

34,531

31,350

Deferred development costs

87,763

57,365

Prepaid expenses and other assets

87,241

93,546

Total assets

$

7,457,605

$

7,174,353

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Unsecured notes, net

$

1,658,029

$

2,002,965

Variable rate unsecured credit facility

—

124,000

Mortgage notes payable

2,316,843

1,527,757

Dividends payable

72,773

208,209

Payables for construction

49,623

64,363

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

229,299

218,280

Accrued interest payable

35,069

32,651

Resident security deposits

33,646

38,643

Liabilities related to real estate assets held for sale

6,399

31,136

Total liabilities

4,401,681

4,248,004

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

5,797

10,234

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; $25 liquidation preference; 50,000,000 shares
authorized at both December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008; zero shares
issued and outstanding at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 140,000,000 shares authorized at both
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008; 81,528,957 and 77,119,963 shares
issued and outstanding at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively



Additional paid-in capital

3,200,367

2,940,499

Accumulated earnings less dividends

(149,988

)

(22,223

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(1,067

)

(2,932

)

Total stockholders’ equity

3,050,127

2,916,115

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

7,457,605

$

7,174,353

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F - 3

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

844,254

$

807,656

$

721,644

Management, development and other fees

7,328

6,568

6,142

Total revenue

851,582

814,224

727,786

Expenses:

Operating expenses, excluding property taxes

261,752

248,862

222,332

Property taxes

83,809

73,937

67,240

Interest expense, net

150,323

114,910

92,175

(Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net

25,910

(1,839

)

—

Depreciation expense

209,746

183,748

157,895

General and administrative expense

28,748

42,781

28,494

Impairment loss — land holdings

21,152

57,899

—

Total expenses

781,440

720,298

568,136

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

1,441

4,566

59,169

Gain on sale of land

4,830

—


Income from continuing operations

76,413

98,492

219,364

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

13,974

27,353

33,894

Gain on sale of communities

63,887

284,901

106,487

Total discontinued operations

77,861

312,254

140,381

Net income

154,274

410,746

359,745

Net (income) loss attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests

1,373


(1,585

)

Net income attributable to the Company

155,647

411,487

358,160

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

—

(10,454

)

(8,700

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

155,647

$

401,033

$

349,460

Other comprehensive income:

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

1,865



Comprehensive income

$

157,512

$

401,467

$

349,673

Earnings per common share — basic:

Income from
continuing operations attributable to common stockholders (net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

0.97

$

1.15

$

2.65

Discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders

0.97

4.06

1.78

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.94

$

5.21

$

4.43

Earnings per common share — diluted:

Income from
continuing operations attributable to common stockholders, net of preferred stock dividends

$

0.96

$

1.15

$

2.62

Discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders

0.97

4.02

1.76

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.93

$

5.17

$

4.38

Dividends per common share:

$

3.5700

$

5.3775

$

3.4000

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-4

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(Dollars in thousands)

Accumulated

Accumulated

Shares issued

Additional

earnings

other

Total

Preferred

Common

Preferred

Common

paid-in

less

comprehensive

stockholders’

stock

stock

stock

stock

capital

dividends

loss

equity

Balance at December 31, 2006

4,000,000

74,668,372

$


$


$

2,482,516

$

90,199

$

(3,579

)

$

2,569,923

Net income attributable to the Company

—

—

—

—

—

358,160

—

358,160

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—



Change in
redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

—

—

(3,826

)

—

(3,826

)

Dividends
declared to common and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

(276,823

)

—

(276,823

)

Issuance of common stock

—

5,130,855

—


619,359

(1,741

)

—

617,669

Purchase of common stock

—

(2,480,616

)

—

(25

)

(93,501

)

(164,403

)

—

(257,929

)

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

18,334

—

—

18,334

Balance at December 31, 2007

4,000,000

77,318,611



3,026,708

1,566

(3,366

)

3,025,721

Net income attributable to the Company

—

—

—

—

—

411,487

—

411,487

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—



Change in
redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

—

—

12,095

—

12,095

Dividends
declared to common and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

(423,118

)

—

(423,118

)

Issuance of common stock

—

323,085

—


5,838

(185

)

—

5,656

Purchase of common stock

—

(521,733

)

—

(5

)

(18,086

)

(24,068

)

—

(42,159

)

Redemption of preferred stock

(4,000,000

)

—

(40

)

—

(96,425

)

—

—

(96,465

)

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

22,464

—

—

22,464

Balance at December 31, 2008

—

77,119,963

—


2,940,499

(22,223

)

(2,932

)

2,916,115

Net income attributable to the Company

—

—

—

—

—

155,647

—

155,647

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,865

1,865

Change in
redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interest

—

—

—

—

—

3,373

—

3,373

Dividends declared to common stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

(287,983

)

—

(287,983

)

Issuance of common stock

—

4,442,180

—


245,676

1,198

—

246,918

Purchase of common stock

—

(33,186

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

14,192

—

—

14,192

Balance at December 31, 2009

—

81,528,957

$

—

$


$

3,200,367

$

(149,988

)

$

(1,067

)

$

3,050,127

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-5

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Dollars in thousands)

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

154,274

$

410,746

$

359,745

Adjustments
to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation expense

209,746

183,748

157,895

Depreciation expense from discontinued operations

8,540

15,704

23,830

Amortization of deferred financing costs and debt premium/discount

8,139

5,892

4,934

Amortization of stock-based compensation

6,098

11,888

14,353

Return on investment of unconsolidated entities

—

—


Equity in income of unconsolidated entities, net of eliminations

(810

)

(3,436

)

(58,122

)

Impairment loss — land holdings

21,152

57,899

—

Abandonment of development pursuits

2,461

9,428

3,429

(Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net

25,910

(1,839

)

—

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(68,717

)

(284,901

)

(107,032

)

(Increase) decrease in cash in operating escrows

(2,434

)

3,054

(7,403

)

(Increase) decrease in resident security deposits,
prepaid expenses and other assets

2,391

(5,673

)

8,747

Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses, other liabilities
and accrued interest payable

11,850

(16,426

)

54,368

Net cash provided by operating activities

378,600

386,084

454,874

Cash flows from investing activities:

Development/redevelopment of real estate assets including land acquisitions and deferred development costs

(560,155

)

(881,503

)

(1,112,590

)

Acquisition of real estate assets, including partner equity interest

—

—

(13,841

)

Capital expenditures — existing real estate assets

(11,114

)

(15,534

)

(13,851

)

Capital expenditures — non-real estate assets

(834

)

(5,290

)

(1,424

)

Proceeds from sale of real estate, net of selling costs

189,417

529,777

261,089

Increase (decrease) in payables for construction

(14,740

)

(27,018

)

32,348

Decrease in cash in construction escrows

77,754

126,611

54,149

(Increase) decrease in investments in unconsolidated real estate entities

(13,887

)

6,648

(15,127

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(333,559

)

(266,309

)

(809,247

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Issuance of common stock

108,860

7,433

621,029

Repurchase of common stock

—

(42,159

)

(257,929

)

Redemption of preferred stock

—

(100,000

)

—

Dividends paid

(283,710

)

(278,795

)

(268,966

)

Net borrowings (repayments) under unsecured credit facility

(124,000

)

(390,500

)

514,500

Issuance of mortgage notes payable and draws on construction loans

741,140

697,046

59,126

Repayments of mortgage notes payable

(65,229

)

(67,442

)

(27,256

)

Issuance of unsecured notes

500,000

330,000

—

Repayment of unsecured notes

(868,564

)

(219,050

)

(260,000

)

Payment of deferred financing costs

(12,523

)

(9,491

)

(6,550

)

Redemption of units for cash by minority partners

(202

)

(1,756

)

(6,851

)

Contributions from minority and profit-sharing partners

—

—

1,333

Distributions to DownREIT partnership unitholders

(57

)

(216

)

(280

)

Distributions to joint venture and profit-sharing partners

—

(181

)

(1,796

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

(4,285

)

(75,111

)

366,360

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

40,756

44,664

11,987

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

64,935

20,271

8,284

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

105,691

$

64,935

$

20,271

Cash paid during the year for interest, net of amount capitalized

$

168,651

$

110,290

$

98,594

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-6

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (continued)

Supplemental disclosures of non-cash investing and financing activities (dollars in thousands):

During the year ended December 31, 2009:

During the year ended December 31, 2008:

During the year ended December 31, 2007:

F-7

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

1.

Organization and Basis of Presentation

Organization

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the “Company,” which term, unless the context otherwise requires,
refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries), is a Maryland
corporation that has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) under the Code.
The Company focuses on the development, acquisition, ownership and operation of apartment
communities in high barrier to entry markets of the United States. These markets are located in the
New England, Metro New York/New Jersey, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and
Southern California regions of the country.

At December 31, 2009, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 165
operating apartment communities containing 47,926 apartment homes in ten states and the District of
Columbia, of which seven communities containing 2,615 apartment homes were under reconstruction.
In addition, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in seven communities
under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 2,438 apartment homes when
completed. The Company also owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in rights to
develop an additional 28 communities that, if developed as expected, will contain an estimated
7,180 apartment homes.

All capitalized terms have the meaning as provided in this Form 10-K.

Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its
wholly owned subsidiaries, certain joint venture partnerships, subsidiary partnerships structured
as DownREITs and any variable interest entities that qualified for consolidation. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

The Company accounts for joint venture entities and subsidiary partnerships, including those
structured as DownREITs, that are not variable interest entities in accordance with the guidance
applicable to limited partnerships or similar entities. The Company evaluates the partnership of
each joint venture entity and determines whether control over the partnership lies with the general
partner or, when the limited partners have certain rights, with the limited partners. The Company
consolidates an investment when both (i) the Company is the general partner, and (ii) the limited
partner interests do not overcome the Company’s presumption of control by having either substantive
participating rights, the ability to remove the Company as the general partner or the ability to
dissolve the partnership.

The Company generally uses the equity method under all other potential scenarios, including (i)
where the Company holds a general partner interest but the presumption of control by the Company is
overcome by the limited partner interests as described in the preceding paragraph, and (ii) where
the Company holds a limited partner interest in a joint venture. Investments in which the Company
has little or no influence are accounted for using the cost method.

In each of the partnerships structured as DownREITs, either the Company or one of the Company’s
wholly owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose
interest in the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each
DownREIT partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution of current
cash flow before any distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership
agreements for each of the DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to
the holders of units of limited partnership interests have approximated the Company’s current
common stock dividend per share. The holders of units of limited partnership interests have the
right to present all or some of their units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the
applicable partnership agreement and based on the fair value of the Company’s common stock. In
lieu of cash redemption, the Company may elect to exchange such units for an

F-8

equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock. In 2009, the Company redeemed 4,077
operating units for cash.

In conjunction with the acquisition and development of investments in unconsolidated entities, the
Company may incur costs in excess of its equity in the underlying assets. These costs are
capitalized and depreciated over the life of the underlying assets to the extent that the Company
expects to recover the costs.

In 2009, an unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company holds an interest determined that the
recent economic downturn impacted the recoverability of the carrying value of a long lived asset
held as an investment. Accordingly, the joint venture recognized an impairment loss. The Company
recognized its proportionate share of the impairment loss of approximately $2,600 as a component of
equity in income of unconsolidated entities on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. There were no impairment losses recognized by any of
the Company’s investments in unconsolidated entities during the years ended December 31, 2008 or
2007.

Revenue and Gain Recognition

Rental income related to leases is recognized on an accrual basis when due from residents as
required by the accounting guidance applicable to leases, which provides guidance on classification
and recognition. In accordance with the Company’s standard lease terms, rental payments are
generally due on a monthly basis. Any cash concessions given at the inception of the lease are
amortized over the approximate life of the lease, which is generally one year.

The Company accounts for sales of real estate assets and the related gain recognition in accordance
with the accounting guidance applicable to sales of real estate, which establishes standards for
recognition of profit on all real estate sales transactions, other than retail land sales. The
Company recognizes the sale, and associated gain or loss from the disposition, provided that the
earnings process is complete and the Company is not obligated to perform significant activities
after the sale.

Real Estate

Operating real estate assets are stated at cost and consist of land, buildings and improvements,
furniture, fixtures and equipment, and other costs incurred during their development, redevelopment
and acquisition. Significant expenditures which improve or extend the life of an asset are
capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.

The Company’s policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize only
non-recurring expenditures. Improvements and upgrades are capitalized only if the item exceeds $15,
extends the useful life of the asset and is not related to making an apartment home ready for the
next resident. Purchases of personal property, such as computers and furniture, are capitalized
only if the item is a new addition and exceeds $2.5. The Company generally expenses purchases of
personal property made for replacement purposes.

Project costs related to the development, construction and redevelopment of real estate projects
(including interest and related loan fees, property taxes and other direct costs) are capitalized
as a cost of the project. Indirect project costs that relate to several projects are capitalized
and allocated to the projects to which they relate. Indirect costs not clearly related to
development, construction and redevelopment activity are expensed as incurred. For development,
capitalization (i) begins when the Company has determined that development of the future asset is
probable, (ii) can be suspended if there is no current development activity underway, but future
development is probable and (iii) ends when the asset, or a portion of an asset, is delivered and
is ready for its intended use, or the Company’s intended use changes such that capitalization is no
longer appropriate. For redevelopment efforts, the Company capitalizes costs either (i) in advance
of taking homes out of service when significant renovation of the common area has begun until the
redevelopment is completed, or (ii) when an apartment home is taken out of service for
redevelopment until the redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is available for a new
resident. Rental income and operating costs incurred during the initial lease-up or
post-redevelopment lease-up period are recognized as they accrue.

F-9

The Company acquired as Development Rights eleven land parcels improved with office buildings,
industrial space and other commercial and residential ventures occupied by unrelated third parties.
As of December 31, 2009, the Company is pursuing development of four of these parcels. For the
seven parcels of land for which the Company does not intend to pursue development, rental revenue
from the incidental operations are recognized as a component of rental and other income. For those
land parcels for which the Company intends to pursue development, the Company will manage the
current improvements until such time as all tenant obligations have been satisfied or eliminated
through negotiation, and construction of new apartment communities is ready to begin. Revenue from
incidental operations received from the current improvements on the land parcels in excess of any
incremental costs are being recorded as a reduction of total capitalized costs of the Development
Right and not as part of net income.

In connection with the acquisition of an operating community, the Company performs a valuation,
allocating to each asset and liability acquired in such transaction its estimated fair value at the
date of acquisition. The purchase price allocations to tangible assets, such as land, buildings
and improvements, and furniture, fixtures and equipment, are reflected in real estate assets and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Any purchase price allocation to intangible assets,
such as in-place leases, is included in prepaid expenses and other assets on the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized over the average remaining lease term of the acquired
leases. The fair value of acquired in-place leases is determined based on the estimated cost to
replace such leases, including foregone rents during an assumed re-lease period, as well as the
impact on projected cash flow of acquired leases with leased rents above or below current market
rents. For acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 2008, all costs incurred with these acquisitions
will be expensed. Prior to January 1, 2009, third party costs directly associated with the
acquisition were capitalized as part of the purchase price.

Depreciation is calculated on buildings and improvements using the straight-line method over their
estimated useful lives, which range from seven to thirty years. Furniture, fixtures and equipment
are generally depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which
range from three years (primarily computer-related equipment) to seven years.

Income Taxes

As of December 31, 2009, the Company did not have any unrecognized tax benefits. The Company does
not believe that there will be any material changes in its unrecognized tax positions over the next
12 months. The Company is subject to examination by the respective taxing authorities for the tax
years 2006 through 2008.

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code, as amended, for the year ended December
31, 1994 and has not revoked such election. A corporate REIT is a legal entity which holds real
estate interests and must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a
requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its adjusted taxable income to
stockholders. As a REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal
income tax on taxable income if it distributes 100% of the taxable income over the time period
allowed under the Code to its stockholders. Management believes that all such conditions for the
avoidance of income taxes have been or will be met for the periods presented. Accordingly, no
provision for federal and state income taxes has been made. If the Company fails to qualify as a
REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates
(including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for
four subsequent taxable years. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company
may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its income and property, and to federal income
and excise taxes on its undistributed taxable income. The Company incurred net charges of $515 and
$3,200 for federal excise taxes as a component of general and administrative expense in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income as a result of the excess
income attributable to gains on asset sales from the Company’s disposition activities during 2009
and 2008, respectively. The Company did not incur any related charges in 2007. For further
discussion of the real estate disposition activities, see Note 7, “Real Estate Disposition
Activities.” In addition, taxable income from non-REIT activities performed through taxable REIT
subsidiaries is subject to federal, state and local income taxes.

The following reconciles net income attributable to common stockholders to taxable net income for
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (unaudited):

F-10




Estimate

Actual

Actual

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

155,647

$

401,033

$

349,460

Dividends
attributable to preferred stock, not deductible for tax

—

7,226

8,700

GAAP gain on sale of communities less than tax gain

20,410

62,540

12,245

Depreciation/Amortization timing differences on real estate

10,757

(18,997

)

(88,328

)

Tax compensation expense less than (in excess of) GAAP

13,512

10,131

(24,239

)

Impairment loss

19,037

50,100

—

Other adjustments

10,488

1,943

17,915

Taxable net income

$

229,851

$

513,976

$

275,753

The following summarizes the tax components of the Company’s common and preferred dividends
declared for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (unaudited):




Ordinary income


%


%


%

15% capital gain


%


%


%

Unrecaptured §1250 gain


%


%


%

Deferred Financing Costs

Deferred financing costs include fees and other expenditures necessary to obtain debt financing and
are amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over the
shorter of the term of the loan or the related credit enhancement facility, if applicable.
Unamortized financing costs are charged to earnings when debt is retired before the maturity date.
The Company recognized a charge of approximately $1,000 as a component of (gain) loss on
extinguishment of debt, net in 2009. Amounts recognized in earnings in 2008 and 2007 were not
significant. Accumulated amortization of deferred financing costs was $19,880 at December 31, 2009
and $24,264 at December 31, 2008.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Cash in Escrow

Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and liquid investments with an original maturity of
three months or less from the date acquired. Cash in escrow consists primarily of construction
financing proceeds that are restricted for use in the construction of a specific community. The
majority of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and cash in escrows are held at major commercial
banks.

Interest Rate Contracts

The Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. As of December
31, 2009, the Company had approximately $59,306 in variable rate debt subject to cash flow hedges
and $300,000 of fixed rate debt subject to fair value hedges; and $61,298 as of December 31, 2008
subject to cash flow hedges. Excluding debt on communities classified as held for sale, the Company
did not apply hedge accounting for an additional $110,275 in variable rate debt which is subject to
interest rate caps as of December 31, 2009. See Note 5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities,” for further discussion of derivative financial instruments.

F-11

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income, as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other
Comprehensive Income, is defined as all changes in equity during each period except for those
resulting from investments by or distributions to shareholders. Accumulated other comprehensive
loss, as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, reflects the effective
portion of the cumulative changes in the fair value of derivatives in qualifying cash flow hedge
relationships.

Earnings per Common Share

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by
the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. All outstanding unvested
restricted share awards contain rights to non-forfeitable dividends and participate in
undistributed earnings with common shareholders and, accordingly, are considered participating
securities that are included in the two-class method of computing basic EPS. All historical periods
presented have been restated to reflect the impact of including participating securities in the
basic earnings per share calculation. Both the unvested restricted shares and other potentially
dilutive common shares, and the related impact to earnings, are considered when calculating
earnings per share on a diluted basis. The Company’s earnings per common share are determined as
follows:

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

Basic and diluted shares outstanding

Weighted average common shares — basic

79,951,348

76,783,515

78,680,043

Weighted average DownREIT units outstanding

16,490

59,886

105,859

Effect of dilutive securities

631,819

735,451

1,071,025

Weighted average common shares — diluted

80,599,657

77,578,852

79,856,927

Calculation of Earnings per Share — basic

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

155,647

$

401,033

$

349,460

Net income allocated to unvested restricted shares

$

(486

)

$

(1,313

)

$

(1,144

)

Net income attributable to common stockholders, adjusted

$

155,161

$

399,720

$

348,316

Weighted average common shares — basic

79,951,348

76,783,515

78,680,043

Earnings per common share — basic

$

1.94

$

5.21

$

4.43

Calculation of Earnings per Share — diluted

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

155,647

$

401,033

$

349,460

Add: noncontrolling interests of DownREIT unitholders in

consolidated partnerships, including discontinued operations




Adjusted net income available to common stockholders

$

155,713

$

401,249

$

349,740

Weighted average common shares — diluted

80,599,657

77,578,852

79,856,927

Earnings per common share — diluted

$

1.93

$

5.17

$

4.38

Certain options to purchase shares of common stock in the amounts of 1,990,064 and 1,534,784
were outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, but were not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per share because such options are anti-dilutive.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company estimates the forfeiture of stock options and recognizes compensation cost net of the
estimated forfeitures. The estimated forfeitures included in compensation cost are adjusted to
reflect actual forfeitures at the end of the vesting period. The forfeiture rate at December 31,
2009 was 1.7%. The application of estimated forfeitures did not materially impact compensation
expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Abandoned Pursuit Costs and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

F-12

The Company evaluates its real estate and other long-lived assets for impairment when potential
indicators of impairment exist. Such assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and
amortization, unless the carrying
amount of the asset is not recoverable. If events or circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of a property may not be recoverable, the Company assesses its recoverability by comparing
the carrying amount of the property to its estimated undiscounted future cash flows. If the
carrying amount exceeds the aggregate undiscounted future cash flows, the Company recognizes an
impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the property.
Based on periodic tests of recoverability of long-lived assets, for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company did not record any impairment losses for wholly owned operating
real estate assets.

The Company capitalizes pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new development opportunities
for which the Company currently believes future development is probable. Future development of
these Development Rights is dependent upon various factors, including zoning and regulatory
approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and the availability of capital. Initial
pre-development costs incurred for pursuits for which future development is not yet considered
probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes,
making future development by the Company no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs
are written off with a charge to expense. The Company expensed costs related to abandoned
pursuits, which includes the abandonment of Development Rights and disposition pursuits, in the
amounts of $5,842 in 2009, $12,511 in 2008 and $6,974 in 2007. These costs are included in
operating expenses, excluding property taxes on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. Abandoned pursuit costs can vary greatly, and the costs
incurred in any given period may be significantly different in future years.

During 2009 the Company concluded that the economic downturn and the related decline in employment
levels did not support the development and construction of certain new apartment communities that
were previously in planning. This resulted in the recognition of impairment charges of $20,302
related to the impairment of two land parcels which the Company does not currently intend to
develop. The Company looked to third-party pricing estimates to determine the fair values of the
land parcels considered to be impaired. Given the heterogeneous nature of multifamily real estate,
the third party values incorporated significant other unobservable inputs and are therefore
considered to be Level 3 prices in the fair value hierarchy. In addition, in 2009 the Company
recognized a further impairment charge of $850 on a land parcel that was previously impaired in the
fourth quarter of 2008. The additional charge is to reduce the land basis to the Company’s
estimated selling price less costs to dispose. In 2008, the Company incurred charges of $57,899
for the impairment of land parcels for which the Company does not currently intend to develop. The
Company looked to a combination of internal models and third-party pricing estimates to determine
the fair values for these land parcels at December 31, 2008. Considering the Company’s knowledge
of multifamily residential development, the fair values of the land parcels that are zoned for
multifamily residential development were generated using an internal model, and the land parcels
zoned for other purposes were valued using third-party estimates of fair value. For the internally
generated fair values, the Company used a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows
for a multifamily residential rental community.

Assets Held for Sale & Discontinued Operations

The Company presents the assets and liabilities of any communities which have been sold, or
otherwise qualify as held for sale, separately in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, the
results of operations for those assets that meet the definition of discontinued operations are
presented as such in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive
Income. Held for sale and discontinued operations classifications are provided in both the current
and prior periods presented. Real estate assets held for sale are measured at the lower of the
carrying amount or the fair value less the cost to sell. Both the real estate assets and
corresponding liabilities are presented separately in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Subsequent to classification of an asset as held for sale, no further depreciation is recorded.
For those assets qualifying for classification as discontinued operations, specific components of
net income presented as discontinued operations include net operating income, minority interest
expense, depreciation expense and interest expense, net. For periods prior to the asset qualifying
for discontinued operations, the Company reclassifies the results of operations to discontinued
operations. In addition, the net gain or loss (including any impairment loss) on the eventual
disposal of assets held for sale will be presented as discontinued operations when recognized. A
change in presentation for held for sale or discontinued operations will not have any impact on the
Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company combines the operating,
investing and financing portions of cash flows attributable to discontinued operations with the
respective cash flows from continuing operations on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows. The Company had three assets

F-13

that qualified for held for sale presentation at December
31, 2009.

Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests

Redeemable noncontrolling interests are comprised of potential future obligations of the Company,
which allow the investors holding the noncontrolling interest to require the Company to purchase
their interest. The Company classifies obligations under the redeemable noncontrolling interests at
fair value, with a corresponding offset for changes in the fair value recorded in accumulated
earnings less dividends. Reductions in fair value are recorded only to the extent that the Company
has previously recorded increases in fair value above the redeemable noncontrolling interest’s
initial basis. The redeemable noncontrolling interests are presented outside of permanent equity as
settlement in the Company’s common shares, where permitted, may not be within the Company’s
control. In accordance with the accounting guidance, the Company has applied the presentation and
disclosure requirements for noncontrolling interests to all periods presented on a retrospective
basis. The nature and valuation of the Company’s redeemable noncontrolling interests are discussed
further in Note 11, “Fair Value.”

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain
estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts in prior years’ financial statements to conform
to current year presentations.

Recently Adopted Accounting Standards

In April 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on determining
fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly
decreased, and for identifying transactions that are not orderly for purposes of determining fair
value. This guidance clarifies the methodology used to determine fair value when there is no active
market or where the price inputs being used represent distressed sales. It also reaffirms the
objective of fair value measurement, as previously stated by the FASB, which is to reflect how much
an asset would be sold for in an orderly transaction. This pronouncement also reaffirms the need to
use judgment to determine if a formerly active market has become inactive, as well as to determine
fair values when markets have become inactive. The Company adopted this on a prospective basis.
The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of
operations.

In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance on subsequent events. This guidance defines subsequent
events as events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial
statements are issued or available to be issued. The requirements for disclosing subsequent events
remain unchanged from the previous requirements. However, the guidance contains an additional
requirement that companies must disclose the date through which subsequent events have been
evaluated and the rationale for selecting that date. The adoption of this guidance did not impact
the Company’s financial position or results of operations. See Note 14, “Subsequent Events.”

In June 2009, the FASB issued FASB Accounting Standards Codification (the “Codification”) which
established the Codification as the sole source of authoritative GAAP. The adoption of the
Codification did not impact the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Based on the
Company’s adoption of the Codification, all references to U.S. GAAP have been removed and replaced
with plain English explanations.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance to significantly amend the consolidation guidance applicable
to variable interest entities (“VIEs”). The consolidation model was modified to one based on
control and economics, and replaces the current quantitative primary beneficiary analysis with a
qualitative analysis. The primary beneficiary of a VIE will be the entity that has (i) the power
to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the

F-14

VIE’s economic performance and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits that could
potentially be significant to the VIE. If multiple unrelated parties share such power, as defined,
no party will be required to consolidate the VIE. Further, the guidance requires continual
reconsideration of the primary beneficiary of a VIE and adds an additional reconsideration event
for determination of whether an entity is a VIE. The amendments also require expanded disclosures
related to VIEs which are largely consistent with the disclosure framework currently applied by the
Company. The new guidance is effective January 1, 2010 for the Company. The Company is evaluating
the impact of the new guidance on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.

In August 2009, the FASB issued guidance on Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value to clarify the
measurement of liabilities at fair value. When a quoted price in an active market for the identical
liability is not available, the fair value of a liability is required to be measured using one or
more of the listed valuation techniques that should maximize the use of relevant observable inputs
and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. In addition, the guidance clarifies that when
estimating the fair value of a liability an entity is not required to include a separate input or
adjustment to other inputs relating to the existence of a restriction that prevents the transfer of
the liability, and clarifies how the price of a traded debt security should be considered in
estimating the fair value of a liability. The adoption of this did not impact the Company’s
financial position or results of operations.

2.

Interest Capitalized

The Company capitalizes interest during the development and redevelopment of real estate assets.
Capitalized interest associated with the Company’s development or redevelopment activities totaled
$48,226 for 2009, $74,621 for 2008 and $73,118 for 2007.

3.

Notes Payable, Unsecured Notes and Credit Facility

The Company’s mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and Credit Facility, as defined below, as of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 are summarized below. The following amounts and discussion
do not include the mortgage notes related to the communities classified as held for sale, if any,
as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 7, “Real
Estate Disposition Activities”).

12-31-09

12-31-08

Fixed rate unsecured notes (1)

$

1,358,257

$

1,672,965

Variable rate unsecured notes (2)

299,772

330,000

Fixed rate mortgage notes payable — conventional and tax-exempt

1,632,605

901,181

Variable rate mortgage notes payable — conventional and tax-exempt

684,238

646,311

Total notes payable and unsecured notes

3,974,872

3,550,457

Variable rate unsecured credit facility

—

124,000

Total mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and Credit Facility

$

3,974,872

$

3,674,457

(1)

Balances at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 include $2,220 and $2,035 of debt
discount.

(2)

Balance at December 31, 2009 includes $228 basis adjustments resulting from qualifying
fair value hedging relationships.

The following debt activity occurred during the year ended December 31, 2009:

•

In January 2009, the Company made a cash tender offer for any and all of its 7.5%
unsecured notes due August 2009 and December 2010. The Company purchased $37,438 principal
amount of its $150,000, 7.5% unsecured notes due August 2009 at par. In addition, the
Company purchased $64,423 principal amount of its $200,000, 7.5% unsecured notes due
December 2010 at 98% of par, for approximately $63,135, representing a yield to maturity of
8.66%. The Company recorded a gain of approximately $1,062, net of the write-off of related
deferred financing costs during the first quarter of 2009 in conjunction with the purchase
of the unsecured notes due December 2010 as a gain on extinguishment of debt, net. All of
the notes purchased in the tender offer were cancelled.

•

In April 2009, the Company completed a 5.86% fixed rate, pooled secured financing
transaction for aggregate borrowing of $741,140. The financing consists of fourteen
separate mortgage loans each with a 10-year term. Each loan provides for payment of
interest only during the first and second years of the loan

F-15

•

$46,001 principal amount of the Company’s $200,000 7.5% unsecured notes
due December 2010 at a weighted average price of 107.50% of par;

•

$150,000 principal amount of the Company’s $300,000 6.625% unsecured
notes due September 2011 at a weighted average price of 109.00% of par;

•

$55,600 principal amount of the Company’s $250,000 5.5% unsecured notes
due January 2012 at a weighted average price of 106.25% of par; and

•

$48,399 principal amount of the Company’s $250,000 6.125% unsecured
notes due November 2012 at a weighted average price of 108.75% of par.

•

In October 2009, the Company repurchased $10,100 principal amount of the Company’s
6.625% unsecured notes due September 2011 at a weighted average price of 107.0% of par.

•

The Company recorded a charge for the purchase premium as well as certain deferred
issuance costs related to the $300,000 cash tender offer and additional $10,100 unsecured
notes repurchase activity above of approximately $26,000 in (gain) loss on extinguishment
of debt, net.

•

In October 2009, the Company repaid the final $112,200 tranche of its Term Loan, in
advance of its scheduled maturity of January 2011.

•

In December 2009 the Company repaid $33,615 in variable rate secured debt pursuant to
its scheduled maturity.

In the aggregate, secured notes payable mature at various dates from October 2010 through July
2066, and are secured by certain apartment communities and improved land parcels (with a net
carrying value of $2,335,284 as of December 31, 2009). As of December 31, 2009, the Company has
guaranteed approximately $519,762 of mortgage notes payable held by wholly owned subsidiaries; all
such mortgage notes payable are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. The weighted
average interest rate of the Company’s fixed rate mortgage notes payable (conventional and
tax-exempt) was 5.0% and 5.7% at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. The
weighted average interest rate of the Company’s variable rate mortgage notes payable, including the
effect of certain financing related fees, was 3.0% at December 31, 2009. The weighted average
interest rate of the Company’s variable rate mortgage notes payable, Term Loan, and Credit Facility
including the effect of certain financing fees was 2.9% at December 31, 2008.

Scheduled payments and maturities of mortgage notes payable and unsecured notes outstanding at
December 31, 2009 are as follows:

F-16

Stated

Unsecured

interest rate

Secured notes

Secured notes

notes

of unsecured

Year

payments

(1)

maturities

maturities

notes


6,097

29,387

14,576

7.500

%

75,000

7.034

%

(2

)


12,087

36,610

39,900

6.625

%

150,000

5.663

%

(2

)


14,560

120,603

201,601

6.125

%

104,400

5.500

%

75,000

4.352

%

(2

)


15,435

264,697

100,000

4.950

%


16,363

33,100

150,000

5.375

%


15,356

365,130

—

—


16,270

—

250,000

5.750

%


17,244

18,300

250,000

5.700

%


18,278

—

—

—


3,391

699,529

—

—

Thereafter

115,722

498,684

250,000

6.100

%

$

250,803

$

2,066,040

$

1,660,477

(1)

Secured note payments are comprised of the principal pay downs for amortizing mortgage notes.

(2)

The weighted average interest rate for the swapped unsecured notes as of December 31, 2009.

The Company’s unsecured notes are redeemable at our option, in whole or in part, at a
redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their principal amount or (ii) the sum of the
present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted at a rate
equal to the yield on U.S. Treasury securities with a comparable maturity plus a spread between 25
and 45 basis points depending on the specific unsecured note, plus accrued and unpaid interest to
the redemption date. The indenture under which the Company’s unsecured notes were issued contains
restrictions on incurring debt and using our assets as security in other financing transactions and
other customary financial and other covenants, with which the Company was in compliance at December
31, 2009.

The Company has a variable rate Credit Facility in the amount of $1,000,000 with a syndicate of
commercial banks, to whom the Company pays an annual facility fee of approximately $1,250. The
Company did not have any amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility and $44,105 outstanding in
letters of credit as of December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008, there was $124,000 outstanding
under the Credit Facility and $45,976 outstanding in letters of credit. The
Credit Facility bears interest at varying levels based on LIBOR, rating levels achieved on the
Company’s unsecured notes and on a maturity schedule selected by the Company. The current stated
pricing is LIBOR plus 0.40% per annum (0.63% at December 31, 2009). The stated spread over LIBOR
can vary from LIBOR plus 0.325% to LIBOR plus 1.00% based on the Company’s credit ratings. In
addition, the Credit Facility includes a competitive bid option, which allows banks that are part
of the lender consortium to bid to make loans to the Company at a rate that is lower than the
stated rate provided by the Credit Facility for up to $650,000. The competitive bid option may
result in lower pricing than the stated rate if market conditions allow. The Company did not have
any amounts outstanding under this competitive bid option as of December 31, 2009. The Credit
Facility matures in November 2011, assuming exercise of a one-year renewal option by the Company.

The Company was in compliance at December 31, 2009 with certain customary financial and other
covenants under the Credit Facility and the Company’s unsecured notes.

F-17

4. Stockholders’ Equity

As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had authorized for issuance 140,000,000 shares
of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. In October 2008, the Company redeemed all
4,000,000 outstanding shares of Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, including accrued
but unpaid dividends, for $100,701. The average dividend for all non-redeemed preferred shares was
$1.81 per share in 2008 and $2.18 per share in 2007.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company:

In addition, the Company granted 344,801 options for common stock to employees. Any deferred
compensation related to the Company’s stock option and restricted stock grants during 2009 is not
reflected on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2009, and will not be
reflected until earned as compensation cost.

Dividends per common share were $3.57 for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $5.3775 for the
year ended December 31, 2008. Dividends per common share for December 31, 2008 included a special
dividend declared in December 2008, of $1.8075 per share (the “Special Dividend”) in conjunction
with the fourth quarter 2008 regular dividend of $0.8925 per share. The Special Dividend was
declared to distribute a portion of the excess income attributable to gains on asset sales from the
Company’s disposition activities during 2008. The Special Dividend was declared to qualify for the
dividends paid deduction for tax purposes and to minimize corporate level income taxes for 2008 and
reduce federal excise taxes.

In August 2009, the Company commenced the CEP, under which the Company may sell up to $400,000 of
its common stock until August 2012. The Company may sell common stock in amounts and at times to
be determined by the Company. Actual sales will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by
the Company, including market conditions, the trading price of the Company’s common stock and
determinations by the Company of the appropriate sources of funding for the Company. In conjunction
with the CEP, the Company engaged sales agents who received compensation of 1.5% of the gross sales
price per share for the common stock sold. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, the
Company sold 37,900 shares under this program at an average sales price of $74.34 per share, for
net proceeds of $2,775. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company sold 1,504,901 shares
under this program at an average sales price of $69.56 per share, resulting in net proceeds of
$103,109.

F-18

5.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

The Company enters into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements (collectively, the
“Hedging Derivatives”) for interest rate risk management purposes and in conjunction with certain
variable rate secured debt to satisfy lender requirements. The Company does not enter into
derivative transactions for trading or other speculative purposes. The following table summarizes
the consolidated Hedging Derivatives at December 31, 2009, excluding derivatives executed to hedge
debt on communities classified as held for sale (dollars in thousands):

Non-designated

Fair Value

Hedges

Cash Flow Hedges

Hedges

Interest

Interest

Interest

Interest

Rate Caps

Rate Caps

Rate Swaps

Rate Swaps

Notional balance

$

109,847

$

15,743

$

43,435

$

300,000

Weighted average interest rate (1)

1.5

%

1.7

%

6.5

%

5.4

%

Weighted average capped interest rate

6.9

%

6.0

%

n/a

n/a

Earliest maturity date

Apr-11

Jun-12

Jun-10

Dec-10

Latest maturity date

Mar-14

Jun-12

Jun-10

Jan-12

Estimated fair value, asset/(liability)

$


$


$

(900

)

$

(228

)

(1)

For interest rate caps, this represents the weighted average interest rate on the debt.

In October 2009, the Company executed $300,000 notional amount of interest rate swaps to convert
$300,000 principal amount of the Company’s fixed rate unsecured notes with a weighted average
maturity of approximately two years to effective floating rate instruments at a weighted average
rate of three month LIBOR plus 5.42%. The Company designated the interest rate swaps as fair value
hedges of the unsecured notes.

Excluding derivatives executed to hedge debt on communities classified as held for sale, the
Company had three derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, five derivatives designated as fair
value hedges and five derivatives not designated as hedges at December 31, 2009. Fair value changes
for derivatives that are not in qualifying hedge relationships are reported as a component of
general and administrative expenses on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Other Comprehensive Income. Fair value changes for derivatives not in qualifying hedge
relationships for the full year ended December 31, 2009, were not material. For the derivative
positions that the Company has determined qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company has
recorded the effective portion of cumulative changes in the fair value of the Hedging Derivatives
in other comprehensive income. Amounts recorded in other comprehensive income will be reclassified
into earnings in the periods in which earnings are affected by the hedged cash flow. To adjust the
Hedging Derivatives in qualifying cash flow hedges to their fair value and recognize the impact of
hedge accounting, the Company recorded an increase in other comprehensive income of $1,865, $434
and $213 during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The amount
reclassified into earnings in 2009, as well as the estimated amount included in accumulated other
comprehensive income as of December 31, 2009, expected to be reclassified into earnings within the
next twelve months to offset the variability of cash flows of the hedged items during this period
are not material. For the derivative positions that the Company has determined qualify as effective
fair value hedges, the Company has recorded the derivatives at fair value as a component of accrued
expenses and other liabilities, with the associated gain or loss as an adjustment to the carrying
amount of the corresponding debt being hedged on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The Company assesses, both at inception and on an on-going basis, the effectiveness of qualifying
cash flow and fair value hedges. Hedge ineffectiveness, reported as a component of general and
administrative expenses, did not have a material impact on earnings of the Company for any prior
period, and the Company does not anticipate that it will have a material effect in the future. The
fair values of the Hedging Derivatives and non-designated derivatives are included in
accrued expenses and other liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Derivative financial instruments expose the Company to credit risk in the event of nonperformance
by the counterparties under the terms of the Hedging Derivatives. The Company minimizes its credit
risk on these transactions by dealing with major, creditworthy financial institutions which have an
A+ or better credit rating by the Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group. As part of its on-going control
procedures, the Company monitors the credit

F-19

ratings of counterparties and the exposure of the Company to any single entity, thus minimizing
credit risk concentration. Because of our counterparties’ credit rating and that our derivative
transactions are a net liability as of December 31, 2009, the Company believes the likelihood of
realizing losses from counterparty non-performance is remote. The Company incorporates credit
valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both its own nonperformance risk and the respective
counterparty’s nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements of its derivative financial
instruments. Refer to Note 11, “Fair Value Measurements,” for further discussion.

6.

Investments in Real Estate Entities

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated real estate entities under the equity
method of accounting, except as otherwise noted below, as discussed in Note 1, “Organization and
Basis of Presentation,” under

Principles of Consolidation

.

As of December 31, 2009, the Company had investments in the following real estate entities:

•

CVP I, LLC

— In February 2004, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with
an unrelated third-party for the development of Avalon Chrystie Place, a 361 apartment-home
community located in New York, New York, for which construction was completed in late 2005.
The Company has contributed $6,270 to this joint venture and holds a 20% equity interest
(with a right to 50% of distributions after achievement of a threshold return, which was
achieved in 2009). The Company is the managing member of CVP I, LLC, however, property
management services at the community are performed by an unrelated third party.

As of December 31, 2009, CVP I, LLC has outstanding tax-exempt, variable rate bonds maturing
in November 2036 in the amount of $117,000, which have permanent credit enhancement. The
Company has agreed to guarantee, under limited circumstances, the repayment to the credit
enhancer of any advances it may make in fulfillment of CVP I, LLC’s repayment obligations
under the bonds

.

The Company has also guaranteed to the credit enhancer that CVP I, LLC will
obtain a final certificate of occupancy for the project (Chrystie Place in New York City),
which is expected in 2010. Our 80% partner in this venture has agreed that it will reimburse
us its pro rata share of any amounts paid relative to these guaranteed obligations. The
estimated fair value of and our obligation under these guarantees, both at inception and as
of December 31, 2009, were not significant. As a result the Company has not recorded any
obligation associated with these guarantees at December 31, 2009.

•

MVP I, LLC

— In December 2004, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with
an unrelated third-party for the development of Avalon at Mission Bay North II.
Construction for Avalon at Mission Bay North II, a 313 apartment-home community located in
San Francisco, California, was completed in December 2006. The Company has contributed
$6,433 to this venture and holds a 25% equity interest. The Company is responsible for the
day-to-day operations of the community and is the management agent subject to the terms of
a management agreement. In December 2007, MVP I, LLC executed a seven-year, fixed rate
conventional loan, which is secured by the underlying real estate assets of the community
for $105,000. The loan is a fixed rate, interest-only note bearing interest at 6.02%,
maturing in December 2015. The Company has not guaranteed the debt of MVP I, LLC, nor does
the Company have any obligation to fund this debt should MVP I, LLC be unable to do so.

•

Avalon Del Rey Apartments, LLC

— In March 2004, the Company entered into an agreement
with an unrelated third party which provided that, upon construction completion, Avalon Del
Rey would be owned and operated by a joint venture between the Company and the third party.
Avalon Del Rey is a 309 apartment-home community located in Los Angeles, California that
was developed by the Company, with construction completed during the third quarter of 2006.
During the fourth quarter of 2006, the third-party venture partner invested $49,000 and
was granted a 70% ownership interest in the venture, with the Company retaining a 30%
equity interest. The Company continues to be responsible for the day-to-day operations of
the community and is the management agent subject to the terms of a management agreement.

Avalon Del Rey Apartments, LLC has a loan secured by the underlying real estate assets of
the community for $45,943 maturing in April 2016. The variable rate loan had an interest
rate of 3.69% at December 31,

F-20

2009.

The Company has not guaranteed the debt of Avalon Del Rey Apartments, LLC, nor does
the Company have any obligation to fund this debt should Avalon Del Rey Apartments, LLC be
unable to do so.

F-21

Company have any obligation to fund this debt should Fund I be unable to do so. Fund I
had a credit facility that matured in December 2009.

In addition, as part of the formation of Fund I, the Company has provided to one of the
limited partners a guarantee. The guarantee provides that if, upon final liquidation of Fund
I, the total amount of all distributions to that partner during the life of Fund I (whether
from operating cash flow or property sales) does not equal a minimum of the total capital
contributions made by that partner, then the Company will pay the partner an amount equal to
the shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total capital contributions made by the
partner (maximum of approximately $7,500 as of December 31, 2009). As of December 31, 2009,
the expected realizable value of the real estate assets owned by Fund I is considered
adequate to cover such potential payment to that partner under the expected Fund I
liquidation scenario. The estimated fair value of, and the Company’s obligation under this
guarantee, both at inception and as of December 31, 2009, was not significant and therefore
the Company has not recorded any obligation for this guarantee as of December 31, 2009.

As of December 31, 2009, subsidiaries of Fund I owned the following 19 communities, subject
to certain mortgage debt. The Company has not guaranteed any of Fund I debt, nor does it
have any obligation to fund this debt should Fund I subsidiaries be unable to do so.

Outstanding Debt

# of apt

Interest

Maturity

Community Name

Location

homes

Amount

Type

Rate

Date

Avalon at Redondo Beach

Los Angeles, CA


$

21,033

Fixed

4.87%

Oct 2011

Avalon Lakeside

Chicago, IL


12,056

Fixed

5.74%

Mar 2012

Avalon Columbia

Baltimore, MD


22,275

Fixed

5.48%

Apr 2012

Avalon Sunset

Los Angeles, CA


12,750

Fixed

5.41%

Feb 2014

Avalon at Poplar Creek

Chicago, IL


16,500

Fixed

4.83%

Oct 2012

Avalon at Civic Center

Norwalk, CA


27,001

Fixed

5.38%

Aug 2013

Avalon Paseo Place

Fremont, CA


11,800

Fixed

5.74%

Nov 2013

Avalon at Yerba Buena

San Francisco, CA


41,500

Fixed

5.88%

Mar 2014

Avalon at Aberdeen Station

Aberdeen, NJ


39,842

Fixed

5.64%

Sep 2013

The Springs

Corona, CA


26,000

Fixed

6.06%

Oct 2014

Avalon Lombard

Lombard, IL


17,243

Fixed

5.43%

Jan 2014

Avalon Cedar Place

Columbia, MD


12,000

Fixed

5.68%

Feb 2014

Avalon Centerpoint (1)

Baltimore, MD


45,000

Fixed

5.74%

Dec 2013

Middlesex Crossing

Billerica, MA


24,100

Fixed

5.49%

Dec 2013

Avalon Crystal Hill

Ponoma, NY


24,500

Fixed

5.43%

Dec 2013

Skyway Terrace

San Jose, CA


37,500

Fixed

6.11%

Mar 2014

Avalon Rutherford Station

East Rutherford, NJ


20,094

Fixed

6.13%

Sep 2016

South Hills Apartments

West Covina, CA


11,761

Fixed

5.92%

Dec 2013

Weymouth Place

Weymouth, MA


13,455

Fixed

5.12%

Mar 2015

(1)

Borrowing on this community is comprised of three mortgage loans.

•

Fund II

— On September 2, 2008, the Company announced the formation of Fund II, a
private, discretionary investment vehicle with commitments from five institutional
investors including the Company. In the second quarter of 2009, the Company announced the
second and final closing of Fund II, admitting an additional joint venture partner, and
additional equity commitments, both from existing as well as the new joint venture partner.
The additional joint venture partner capital commitments raised as part of the second
closing, reduced the Company’s equity ownership interest to 31% from 45%. A subsidiary of
Fund II has one loan secured by an asset in the amount of $21,515 with a maturity of June
2019. This loan is payable by a subsidiary of Fund II. As of December 31, 2009, Fund II
also has $30,200 outstanding under a credit facility that matures in December 2010.

In addition, as part of the formation of Fund II, the Company has provided to one of the
limited partners a guarantee. The guarantee provides that if, upon final liquidation of Fund
II, the total amount of all

F-22

distributions to that partner during the life of Fund II
(whether from operating cash flow or property sales) does not equal a minimum of the total
capital contributions made by that partner, then the Company will pay the partner an amount
equal to the shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total capital contributions
made by the partner (maximum of approximately $1,470 as of December 31, 2009). As of
December 31, 2009, the expected realizable value of the real estate assets owned by Fund II
is considered adequate to cover such potential payment to that partner under the expected
Fund II liquidation scenario. The estimated fair value of, and the Company’s obligation
under this guarantee, both at inception and as of December 31, 2009 was not significant and
therefore the Company has not recorded any obligation for this guarantee as of December 31,
2009.

As of December 31, 2009, subsidiaries of Fund II owns the following two communities, subject
to certain mortgage debt. The Company has not guaranteed any of Fund II’s debt, nor does it
have any obligation to fund this debt should the subsidiaries of Fund II be unable to do so.

Outstanding Debt

# of apt

Interest

Maturity

Community Name

Location

homes

Amount

Type

Rate

Date

Avalon Bellevue Park

Bellevue, WA


$

21,515

Fixed

5.52

%

Jun-19

The Hermitage

Fairfax, VA


—

n/a

n/a

n/a

F-23

The following is a combined summary of the financial position of the entities accounted for using
the equity method, as of the dates presented:

12-31-09

12-31-08

(unaudited)

(unaudited)

Assets:

Real estate, net

$

1,065,328

$

995,680

Other assets

39,502

38,027

Total assets

$

1,104,830

$

1,033,707

Liabilities and partners’ capital:

Mortgage notes payable and credit facility

$

758,487

$

705,332

Other liabilities

19,669

17,578

Partners’ capital

326,674

310,797

Total liabilities and partners’ capital

$

1,104,830

$

1,033,707

The following is a combined summary of the operating results of the entities accounted for using
the equity method, for the years presented:

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

(unaudited)

(unaudited)

(unaudited)

Rental and other income

$

101,748

$

105,421

$

92,078

Operating and other expenses

(49,730

)

(43,992

)

(39,952

)

Impairment loss

(17,162

)

—

—

Gain on sale of communities

—

25,417

—

Interest expense, net

(37,156

)

(38,478

)

(40,791

)

Depreciation expense

(32,909

)

(31,152

)

(26,622

)

Net loss

$

(35,209

)

$

17,216

$

(15,287

)

In conjunction with the acquisition and development of investments in unconsolidated entities, the
Company incurred costs in excess of its equity in the underlying net assets of the respective
investments. These costs represent $11,047 at December 31, 2009 and $4,817 at December 31, 2008 of
the respective investment balances.

The following is a summary of the Company’s equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated entities for
the years presented: (unaudited)

F-24

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

Town Grove, LLC

(1)

$

—

$


$

57,821

Avalon Del Rey, LLC

(2)



3,616

CVP I, LLC

(3)

7,330

1,109


MVP I, LLC

(684

)

(474

)

(1,261

)

AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P.

(4)(5)

(4,109

)

2,532

(1,775

)

AvalonBay Value Added Fund II, L.P.

(48

)

—

—

Other

—

—


Aria at Hathorne, LLC

(1,127

)

1,127

—

Total

$

1,441

$

4,566

$

59,169

(1)

Equity in income from this entity for 2007 includes a gain of $56,320 for the Company
from the fourth quarter disposition of its partnership interest in Avalon Grove, an asset
held by Town Grove, LLC.

(2)

Equity in income from this entity for 2007 includes a gain of $3,607 for the Company
from the fourth quarter disposition of its ownership interest in Avalon Del Rey, the
sole asset held by Avalon Del Rey, LLC.

(3)

Equity in income from this entity for 2009 includes $6,192 relating to the Company’s
recognition of its promoted interest.

(4)

Equity in income from this entity for 2008 includes a gain of $3,483 for the Company’s 15.2%
share of the gain from the second quarter disposition of Avalon Redmond, an asset held
by the Fund.

(5)

Equity in income for 2009 includes an impairment loss of $2,600 for the Company’s
proportionate share of the impairment charge on an operating community.

7.

Real Estate Disposition Activities

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company sold five wholly owned communities for an
aggregate gross sales price of $179,675. These dispositions resulted in a gain in accordance with
GAAP of approximately $61,117. In conjunction with the settlement of previously disclosed
litigation with the Equal Rights Center involving accessibility of our communities, the Company
recognized an additional gain of approximately $2,770 associated with communities sold in prior
years, which was previously deferred.

Details regarding the community asset sales are summarized in the following table:

Period

Apartment

Gross sales

Net

Community Name

Location

of sale

homes

Debt

price

proceeds

Avalon at River Oaks

San Jose, CA

Q309


$

—

$

42,250

$

41,626

Avalon at Faxon Park

Quincy, MA

Q309


—

27,250

26,633

Avalon at Parkside

Sunnyvale, CA

Q409


—

43,800

43,283

Avalon Orange

Orange, CT

Q409


—

25,500

24,858

Avalon at Flanders Hill

Westborough, MA

Q409


—

40,875

40,081

Total of all 2009 asset sales

1,037

$

—

$

179,675

$

176,481

Total of all 2008 asset sales

3,059

$

43,715

$

564,950

$

503,377

Total of all 2007 asset sales

1,384

$

8,116

$

268,096

$

257,396

The operations for any real estate assets sold from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2009 and
the real estate assets that qualified as discontinued operations and held for sale as of December
31, 2009 have been presented as such in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Accordingly, certain reclassifications have been made to prior years to reflect discontinued
operations consistent with current year presentation.

The following is a summary of income from discontinued operations for the periods presented:

F-25

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

Rental income

$

35,086

$

68,481

$

95,866

Operating and other expenses

(11,891

)

(22,127

)

(32,085

)

Interest expense, net

(681

)

(3,297

)

(6,057

)

Depreciation expense

(8,540

)

(15,704

)

(23,830

)

Income from discontinued
operations

$

13,974

$

27,353

$

33,894

The Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets include other assets (excluding net real estate) of
$2,185 and $2,965 as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, $0 and $19,735 of mortgage notes
as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively and other liabilities of $6,399 and $11,401 as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively relating to real estate assets sold or classified as held
for sale.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company sold two land parcels, one of which was
previously impaired by the Company

.

The Company had gains on the sale of land parcels of $4,830,
$0 and $545 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

8.

Commitments and Contingencies

Employment Agreements and Arrangements

As of December 31, 2009, the Company had employment agreements with four executive officers. The
employment agreements provide for severance payments and generally provide for accelerated vesting
of stock options and restricted stock in the event of a termination of employment (except for a
termination by the Company with cause or a voluntary termination by the employee). The current
terms of these agreements end on dates that vary between November 2010 and June 2011. The
employment agreements provide for one-year automatic renewals (two years in the case of the Chief
Executive Officer (“CEO”)) after the initial term unless an advance notice of non-renewal is
provided by either party. Upon a notice of non-renewal by the Company, each of the officers may
terminate his employment and receive a severance payment. Upon a change in control, the agreements
provide for an automatic extension of up to three years from the date of the change in control.
The employment agreements provide for base salary and incentive compensation in the form of cash
awards, stock options and stock grants subject to the discretion of, and attainment of performance
goals established by, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

The Company’s stock incentive plan, as described in Note 10, “Stock-Based Compensation Plans,”
provides that upon an employee’s Retirement (as defined in the plan documents) from the Company,
all outstanding stock options and restricted shares of stock held by the employee will vest, and
the employee will have up to 12 months to exercise any options held upon retirement. Under the
plan, Retirement means a termination of employment, other than for cause, after attainment of age
50, provided that (i) the employee has worked for the Company for at least 10 years, (ii) the
employee’s age at Retirement plus years of employment with the Company equals at least 70, (iii)
the employee provides at least six months written notice of his intent to retire, and (iv) the
employee enters into a one year non-compete and employee non-solicitation agreement.

The Company also has an Officer Severance Program (the “Program”) for the benefit of those officers
of the Company who do not have employment agreements. Under the Program, in the event an officer
who is not otherwise covered by a severance arrangement is terminated (other than for cause) within
two years following a change in control (as defined) of the Company, such officer will generally
receive a cash lump sum payment equal to the sum of such officer’s base salary and cash bonus, as
well as accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock. Costs related to the Company’s
employment agreements and the Program are deferred and recognized over the requisite service period
when considered by management to be probable and estimable.

Construction and Development Contingencies

The Company holds a 99% controlling interest in PHVP I, LLC, a consolidated joint venture. In
conjunction with the development of an operating community, Avalon Walnut Creek, PHVP I, LLC
constructed a public garage adjacent to the community. As part of providing construction management
services to PHVP I, LLC for the

F-26

construction of the public garage, the Company provided a
construction completion guarantee to the related lender in order to fulfill their standard
financing requirements related to the garage construction financing. The Company’s obligations
under this guarantee terminated following construction completion of the garage in the third
quarter of 2009.

In 2007 the Company entered into a commitment to acquire parcels of land in Brooklyn, New York for
an aggregate purchase price of approximately $111,000. Under the terms of the commitment, the
Company is closing on the various parcels over a period determined by the seller’s ability to
execute unrelated purchase transactions and achieve deferral of gains for the land sold under this
commitment. However, under no circumstances will the commitment extend beyond 2011, at which time
either the Company or the seller can compel execution of the remaining transactions. At December
31, 2009, the Company has an outstanding commitment to purchase the remaining land for
approximately $51,500.

Legal Contingencies

As previously reported, the Company has been involved in litigation alleging that communities
constructed by the Company violate the accessibility requirements of the FHA and the Americans with
Disabilities Act. The ERC filed a complaint against the Company on September 23, 2005 in the U.S.
District Court, District of Maryland with respect to 100 properties. In November 2009, the Company
settled this litigation by entering into a court approved consent decree. Under the consent decree
the Company will inspect and, if necessary, remediate up to 8,250 apartment units and related
public and common areas at the Company’s communities. The Company expects that the remediation
resulting from the inspections, which should occur over approximately a four year period, will
enhance and/or extend the useful life of the applicable communities and will therefore be
capitalized. Although the Company will not be able to determine the exact remediation or associated
costs until inspections are completed, the Company does not believe that the remediation costs will
be material to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In a separate matter related to FHA accessibility matters, on August 13, 2008 the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Southern District of New York filed a civil lawsuit against the Company and the
joint venture in which it has an interest that owns Avalon Chrystie Place. The lawsuit alleges
that Avalon Chrystie Place was not designed and constructed in accordance with the accessibility
requirements of the FHA. The Company designed and constructed the community to address compliance
with New York City’s Local Law 58, which for more than 20 years has been New York City’s code
regulating the accessible design and construction of apartments. After the filing of its answer and
affirmative defenses, during the fourth quarter of 2009 the plaintiff served the Company with
discovery requests relating to communities owned by the Company nationwide. The Company objected to
these discovery requests as being overly broad, as the plaintiff’s complaint made factual
allegations with regard to Avalon Chrystie Place only. A magistrate judge agreed with the Company
and limited discovery to Avalon Chrystie Place. The plaintiff is appealing the magistrate judge’s
ruling. As there are uncertainties relating to this lawsuit, (such as the legal requirements to
meet and demonstrate accessibility under the applicable statutes, the cost to remediate, if
necessary and whether the scope of this lawsuit will be extended to other properties by an amended
complaint or otherwise) the Company cannot predict or determine the outcome of this lawsuit, nor is
it reasonably possible at this time to estimate the cost of remediation or any other costs, if any,
that would be associated with an adverse decision or settlement.

In addition, the Company is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims that arise in the
ordinary course of business. These matters are frequently covered by insurance. If it has been
determined that a loss is probable to occur and can be reasonably estimated, the estimated amount
of the loss is recorded in the financial statements. While the resolution of these other matters
cannot be predicted with certainty, management currently believes the final outcome of such matters
will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of the
Company. In instances where the Company has a gain contingency associated with legal proceedings,
the Company records a gain in the financial statements, to the extent of a loss recovery, when it
is deemed probable to occur, can be reasonably estimated and is considered to be collectible.

Lease Obligations

The Company owns 14 apartment communities and Development Rights and two commercial properties
which are located on land subject to land leases expiring between October 2026 and March 2142. In
addition, the Company

F-27

leases certain office space. These leases are accounted for as operating
leases recognizing rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. These leases have
varying escalation terms, and nine of these leases have purchase options exercisable through 2142.
The Company incurred costs of $19,442, $16,937 and $15,516 in the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively, related to these leases.

The following table details the future minimum lease payments under the Company’s current leases:

Payments due by period






Thereafter

$20,732

$

24,101

$

26,714

$

26,884

$

26,966

$

3,287,550

9.

Segment Reporting

The Company’s reportable operating segments include Established Communities, Other Stabilized
Communities, and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Annually as of January 1

st

, the
Company determines which of its communities fall into each of these categories and maintains that
classification, unless disposition plans regarding a community change, throughout the year for the
purpose of reporting segment operations.

•

Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities)

are communities where a
comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as
these communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the
beginning of the prior year. For the year 2009, the Established Communities are
communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, had stabilized
occupancy and operating expenses as of January 1, 2008, are not conducting or planning to
conduct substantial redevelopment activities and are not held for sale or planned for
disposition within the current year. A community is considered to have stabilized
occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year
anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.

•

Other Stabilized Communities

includes all other completed communities that have
stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized Communities do not include
communities that are conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment
activities within the current year.

•

Development/Redevelopment Communities

consists of communities that are under
construction and have not received a final certificate of occupancy, communities where
the Company owns a majority interest and where substantial redevelopment is in
progress or is planned to begin during the current year and communities under lease-up
that had not reached stabilized occupancy, as defined above, as of January 1, 2009.

In addition, the Company owns land for future development and has other corporate assets that are
not allocated to an operating segment.

The Company’s segment disclosures present the measure(s) used by the chief operating decision maker
for purposes of assessing such segments’ performance. The Company’s chief operating decision maker
is comprised of several members of its executive management team who use NOI as the primary
financial measure for Established Communities and Other Stabilized Communities. NOI is defined by
the Company as total revenue less direct property operating expenses. Although the Company
considers NOI a useful measure of a community’s or communities’ operating performance, NOI should
not be considered an alternative to net income or net cash flow from operating activities, as
determined in accordance with GAAP. NOI excludes a number of income and expense categories as
detailed in the reconciliation of NOI to net income.

F-28

A reconciliation of NOI to net income for years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as
follows:

For the year ended

12-31-09

12-31-08

12-31-07

Net income

$

154,274

$

410,746

$

359,745

Indirect operating expenses, net of
corporate income

30,315

33,010

31,285

Investments and investment management expense

3,844

4,787

4,763

Expensed development and other pursuit costs

5,842

12,511

6,974

Interest expense, net

150,323

114,910

92,175

(Gain) loss on extinguishment of debt, net

25,910

(1,839

)

—

General and administrative expense

28,748

42,781

28,494

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

(1,441

)

(4,566

)

(59,169

)

Depreciation expense

209,746

183,748

157,895

Impairment loss — land holdings

21,152

57,899

—

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(68,717

)

(284,901

)

(107,032

)

Income from discontinued operations

(13,974

)

(27,353

)

(33,894

)

Net operating income

$

546,022

$

541,733

$

481,236

The primary performance measure for communities under development or redevelopment depends on the
stage of completion. While under development, management monitors actual construction costs
against budgeted costs as well as lease-up pace and rent levels compared to budget.

The following table provides details of the Company’s segment information as of the dates
specified. The segments are classified based on the individual community’s status as of the
beginning of the given calendar year. Therefore, each year the composition of communities within
each business segment is adjusted. Accordingly, the amounts between years are not directly
comparable. Segment information for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 have been
adjusted for the communities that were sold from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2009, or
otherwise qualify as discontinued operations as of December 31, 2009, as described in Note 7, “Real
Estate Disposition Activities.”

F-29

Total

% NOI change

Gross

revenue

NOI

from prior year

real estate (1)

For the period ended December 31, 2009

Established

New England

$

121,455

$

75,766

(7.5

%)

$

858,858

Metro NY/NJ

155,468

103,558

(7.4

%)

1,048,636

Mid-Atlantic/Midwest

122,001

74,983

(3.5

%)

775,979

Pacific Northwest

28,184

19,101

(9.3

%)

239,215

Northern California

98,529

70,819

(7.9

%)

857,321

Southern California

62,751

42,900

(9.7

%)

428,241

Total Established (2)

588,388

387,127

(7.1

%)

4,208,250

Other Stabilized

126,166

81,517

n/a

1,421,651

Development / Redevelopment

129,700

77,378

n/a

2,264,590

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

237,095

Non-allocated (3)

7,328

n/a

n/a

62,118

Total

$

851,582

$

546,022

0.8

%

$

8,193,704

For the period ended December 31, 2008

Established

New England

$

115,834

$

75,180

2.3

%

$

748,824

Metro NY/NJ

133,501

91,376

2.1

%

814,523

Mid-Atlantic/Midwest

119,194

75,256

1.9

%

725,471

Pacific Northwest

21,525

15,493

7.5

%

175,504

Northern California

123,204

91,547

7.9

%

1,000,952

Southern California

61,449

44,048

1.1

%

377,841

Total Established (2)

574,707

392,900

3.5

%

3,843,115

Other Stabilized

103,212

68,709

n/a

959,224

Development / Redevelopment

129,737

80,124

n/a

2,502,820

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

239,456

Non-allocated (3)

6,568

n/a

n/a

132,702

Total

$

814,224

$

541,733

12.6

%

$

7,677,317

For the year ended December 31, 2007

Established

New England

$

116,930

$

75,317

3.0

%

$

776,255

Metro NY/NJ

130,511

90,253

4.5

%

786,115

Mid-Atlantic/Midwest

110,929

69,685

6.8

%

692,989

Pacific Northwest

28,294

19,671

16.1

%

237,464

Northern California

135,642

98,453

12.4

%

1,156,162

Southern California

56,091

40,219

5.9

%

349,719

Total Established (2)

578,397

393,598

7.2

%

3,998,704

Other Stabilized

47,822

30,324

n/a

356,038

Development / Redevelopment

95,425

57,314

n/a

2,171,207

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

288,423

Non-allocated (3)

6,142

n/a

n/a

47,793

Total

$

727,786

$

481,236

14.6

%

$

6,862,165

(1)

Does not include gross real estate assets held for sale of $166,387, $325,170 and
$694,574 as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

(2)

Gross real estate for the Company’s established communities includes capitalized
additions of approximately $10,783, $15,534 and $13,851 in 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively.

(3)

Revenue represents third-party management, accounting and developer fees and
miscellaneous income which are not allocated to a reportable segment.

F-30

10.

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

On May 21, 2009, the stockholders of the Company, upon the recommendation of the Board of
Directors, approved the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 2009 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the “2009
Plan”). The 2009 Plan includes an authorization to issue up to 4,199,822 shares of the Company’s
common stock, par value $0.01 per share, (2,930,000 newly authorized shares plus 1,269,822 shares
that were available for grant as of May 21, 2009 under the Company’s 1994 Stock Option and
Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”)), pursuant to awards under the 2009 Plan. The 2009 Plan provides
for various types of equity awards to employees, officers, non-employee directors and other key
personnel of the Company and its subsidiaries. The types of awards that may be granted under the
2009 Plan include restricted and deferred stock, stock options that qualify as incentive stock
options (“ISOs”) under Section 422 of the Code, non-qualified stock options, and stock appreciation
rights. The 2009 Plan will expire on May 21, 2019.

Effective as of the close of business on May 21, 2009, and as part of the proposal to approve the
2009 Plan described above, the Board of Directors terminated the 1994 Plan with respect to new
awards. The 1994 Plan provided for the same types of equity awards as the 2009 Plan, and would have
expired by its terms on May 8, 2011. Outstanding awards previously granted under the 1994 Plan will
not be affected by termination of the 1994 Plan, the terms of which shall continue to govern such
previously granted awards. In addition to the 4,199,822 shares authorized for issue under the 2009
Plan as described above, any awards that were outstanding under the 1994 Plan on May 21, 2009 that
are subsequently forfeited, canceled, surrendered or terminated (other than by exercise) will
become available for awards under the 2009 Plan.

Information with respect to stock options granted under the 1994 Plan is as follows:

Weighted

Avalon 1995

Weighted

average

and Avalon

average

1994 Plan

exercise price

1993 Plan

exercise price

shares

per share

shares

per share

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2006

2,487,239

$

69.65

4,240

$

36.81

Exercised

(471,024

)

56.57

(3,472

)

36.86

Granted

344,429

147.39

—

—

Forfeited

(38,929

)

110.28

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2007

2,321,715

$

83.15


$

36.61

Exercised

(154,523

)

46.15

(768

)

36.61

Granted

401,212

89.06

—

—

Forfeited

(23,413

)

112.51

—

—

Special Dividend Option Adjustment (1)

78,144

n/a

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2008

2,623,135

$

83.49


n/a

Exercised

(115,675

)

44.20

—

—

Granted

344,801

48.60

—

—

Forfeited

(16,007

)

98.83

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2009

2,836,254

$

80.76


n/a

Options
Exercisable:

December 31, 2007

1,230,428

$

60.84


$

36.61

December 31, 2008
(1)

1,711,508

$

72.97

—

n/a

December 31, 2009

2,127,829

$

81.90

—

n/a

(1)

In accordance with the applicable equity award plan documents, the number and exercise
price of outstanding awards have been adjusted as a result of the special dividend declared in
the fourth quarter of 2008, to maintain their value.

The following summarizes the exercise prices and contractual lives of options outstanding as of December 31, 2009:

F-31

Weighted Average

Remaining Contractual Term

Number of Options

Range - Exercise Price

(in years)

88,255

30.00 — 39.99

1.4

757,935

40.00 — 49.99

3.2

463,096

60.00 — 69.99

5.2

1,030

70.00 — 79.99

5.5

414,016

80.00 — 89.99

7.0

773,857

90.00 — 99.99

6.1

6,698

100.00 — 109.99

6.4

5,152

110.00 — 119.99

7.5

326,215

140.00 — 149.99

7.1

2,836,254

Options outstanding under the 1994 Plan at December 31, 2009 had an intrinsic value of $3,815.
Options exercisable at December 31, 2009 under the 1994 plan had a weighted average contractual
life of 4.8 years and $438 intrinsic value. The intrinsic value of options exercised during 2009,
2008 and 2007 was $2,199, $8,565 and $17,895, respectively.

The cost related to stock-based employee compensation for employee stock options included in the
determination of net income is based on estimated forfeitures for the given year. Estimated
forfeitures are adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures at the end of the vesting period. The
following table summarizes the weighted average fair value of employee stock options for the
periods shown and the associated assumptions used to calculate the value:




Weighted average fair value per share

$

6.53

$

9.91

$

21.83

Life of options (in years)

7.0

7.0

7.0

Dividend yield

8.5

%

5.5

%

4.0

%

Volatility

36.57

%

22.17

%

17.32

%

Risk-free interest rate

2.17

%

3.09

%

4.73

%

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had 244,640 and 207,070 outstanding unvested shares
granted under restricted stock awards. The Company issued 169,851 shares of restricted stock valued
at $8,360 as part of its stock-based compensation plan during the year ended December 31, 2009.
Restricted stock vesting during the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled 130,981 shares and had
fair values at the grant date ranging from $48.60 to $147.75 per share. The total fair value of
shares vested was $10,731, $10,668 and $8,590 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Total employee stock-based compensation cost recognized in income was $11,446, $17,268, and $13,502
for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and total capitalized
stock-based compensation cost was $6,000, $6,499, and $5,106 for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively. At December
31, 2009, there was a total of $1,595 and $5,953 in unrecognized compensation cost for unvested
stock options and unvested restricted stock, respectively, which does not include estimated
forfeitures. The unrecognized compensation cost for unvested stock options and restricted stock is
expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.52 years and 2.26 years,
respectively.

Deferred Stock Performance Plan

The Company’s Board of Directors and its Compensation Committee approved a multiyear performance
plan (“the 2008 Performance Plan”). On June 1, 2008, awards in connection with this plan with an
estimated compensation cost of $8,958 were granted to senior management and other selected officers
(“2008 Performance Plan Awards”). The 2008 Performance Plan awards are initially in the form of
deferred stock awards, with no dividend rights, granted under the Company’s 1994 Plan. These
deferred stock awards will be forfeited in their entirety unless the Company’s total return to
shareholders, consisting of stock price appreciation plus cumulative dividends without reinvestment
or compounding (the “Actual TRS”), over the measurement period exceeds both (i) an Absolute TRS

F-32

Target and (ii) a Relative TRS Target. The measurement period of the 2008 Performance Plan began
on June 1, 2008 with a starting common stock price equal to the average closing price of the
Company’s common stock on the twenty trading days prior to June 1, 2008. The measurement period
will end on May 31, 2011, again using a twenty-day average closing price. The measurement period
will end earlier upon a change in control of the Company.

The “Absolute TRS Target” that must be exceeded during the measurement period is a 32% total return
performance (or a pro rated amount in the event the measurement period is less than three years due
to a change in control). The “Relative TRS Target” that must be exceeded is the total return
performance (stock price appreciation plus cumulative dividends without reinvestment or
compounding) during the measurement period of the Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange
(FTSE) NAREIT Apartment Index. If the Actual TRS exceeds both the Absolute TRS Target and the
Relative TRS Target, the total funding pool will equal 10% of the simple average of (i) the excess
shareholder value created by the Actual TRS exceeding the Absolute TRS Target and (ii) the excess
shareholder value created by the Actual TRS exceeding the Relative TRS Target, provided that in no
event will the total funding pool exceed $60 million.

Each participating officer’s 2008 Performance Plan award is designated as a specified
“Participation Percentage” in the 2008 Performance Plan. If both TRS targets are exceeded at the
end of the measurement period, then each participating officer will earn deferred stock awards
having a total value (based on the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the last day of
the measurement period) equal to that officer’s participation percentage multiplied by the total
funding pool. The total funding pool will under no circumstance exceed $60 million. Any unearned
deferred stock awards (i.e., deferred stock awards in excess of the number of awards having a value
equal to that officer’s participation percentage in the total funding pool) will be forfeited.
Earned deferred stock awards will convert into vested unrestricted common stock (50%), and unvested
restricted common stock with a one-year vesting period (50%), subject to earlier forfeiture or
acceleration under certain circumstances. Dividends will be paid on both the unrestricted common
stock and the restricted common stock.

The Company will recognize compensation expense for the 2008 Performance Plan over the three year
measurement period for the 50% of each award which vests at the end of the measurement period. For
the remaining 50% of each award, the Company will recognize compensation expense over the four year
period which includes the measurement period as well as the one-year vesting period subsequent to
the end of the measurement period. The recognition of compensation cost will take into account
actual forfeitures as well as retirement eligibility. The Company used a Monte Carlo model to
assess the compensation cost associated with the 2008 Performance Plan. The estimated compensation
cost was derived using the following assumptions: baseline share value of $102.16, dividend yield
of 3.53%, estimated volatility figures over the life of the plan using 50% historical volatility
and 50% implied volatility and risk free rates over the life of the plan ranging from 2.13% to
2.97%, resulting in an estimated fair value per share of $14.15. During the years ended December
31, 2009 and 2008, the Company recognized expense of $1,673 and $1,013, respectively in earnings
and capitalized stock-based compensation costs of $895 and $582, respectively for the 2008
Performance Plan.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

In October 1996, the Company adopted the 1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (as
amended, the “ESPP”). Initially 1,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under
this plan. There are currently 755,484 shares remaining available for issuance under the plan.
Full-time employees of the Company generally are eligible to participate in the ESPP if, as of the
last day of the applicable election period, they have been employed by the Company for at least one
month. All other employees of the Company are eligible to participate provided that, as of the
applicable election period, they have been employed by the Company for 12 months. Under the ESPP,
eligible employees are permitted to acquire shares of the Company’s common stock through payroll
deductions, subject to maximum purchase limitations. The purchase period is a period of seven
months beginning each April 1 and ending each October 30. The purchase price for common stock
purchased under the plan is 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of the Company’s common
stock on the first day of the applicable purchase period or the last day of the applicable purchase
period. The offering dates, purchase dates and duration of purchase periods may be changed, if the
change is announced prior to the beginning of the affected date or purchase period. The Company
issued 16,971, 8,460 and 8,577 shares and recognized compensation expense of $118, $90 and $158
under the ESPP for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company
accounts for transactions under the ESPP using the fair value method prescribed by accounting
guidance

F-33

applicable to entities that use employee share purchase plans, as further discussed in
Note 1, “Organization and Basis of Presentation.”

11.

Fair Value

Fair Value Methodology

As a basis for applying a market-based approach in fair value measurements, GAAP establishes a fair
value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data
obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity and the reporting entity’s own
assumptions about market participant assumptions. The valuation of financial instruments can be
determined using widely accepted valuation techniques.

The Company applies valuation models such as discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash
flows of each instrument which considers the contractual terms of the instruments, including the
period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and
market prices, as available and applicable. In addition, the Company incorporates credit valuation
adjustments to appropriately reflect both its own nonperformance risk and the respective
counterparty’s nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements as discussed below. When
market-based inputs are not available in valuing the Company’s financial instruments, such as for
valuing redeemable noncontrolling interests, the Company uses unobservable inputs considering the
assumptions that market participants would make in deriving the fair value. The use of different
market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the Company’s
estimates of fair value.

Financial Instruments Carried at Fair Value

Derivative Financial Instruments

Currently, the Company uses interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to manage its
interest rate risk. These instruments are carried at fair value in the Company’s financial
statements. See Note 5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” for derivative values at
December 31, 2009 and a description of where these amounts are recorded in the financial
statements. In adjusting the fair value of its derivative contracts for the effect of counterparty
nonperformance risk, the Company has considered the impact of its net position with a given
counterparty, as well as any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings,
thresholds, mutual puts, and guarantees. Although the Company has determined that the majority of
the inputs used to value its derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the
credit valuation adjustments associated with its derivatives use Level 3 inputs, such as estimates
of current credit spreads, to evaluate the likelihood of default by itself and its counterparties.
As of December 31, 2009, the Company assessed the significance of the impact of the credit
valuation adjustments on the overall valuation of its derivative positions and has determined it is
not significant. As a result, the Company has determined that its derivative valuations are
classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests

Redeemable noncontrolling interests are reported at fair value, with reductions in fair value
recorded only to the extent that the Company has previously recorded increases in fair value above
the redeemable noncontrolling interests’ initial basis.

•

Puts — The Company provided redemption options (the “Puts”) that allow two of the
Company’s joint venture partners to require the Company to purchase their interests in the
investments at the future fair market value. One Put is payable in cash or, at the
Company’s option, common stock of the Company, and the second is payable in cash. The
Company determines the fair value of the Puts based on unobservable inputs considering the
assumptions that market participants would make in pricing the obligations, including
applying discount factors to the estimated future cash flows of the asset underlying the
associated joint venture, which in the case of the Puts is the NOI from an apartment
community, as well as potential disposition proceeds utilizing market capitalization rates,
to derive the fair value of the position. Given the significance of the unobservable
inputs, the valuations are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

F-34

At December
31, 2008, the Puts’ aggregate fair value was $9,057. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate
fair value of the Puts was $4,101.

•

DownREIT units — The Company issued units of limited partnership interest in DownREITs
which provide the DownREIT limited partners the ability to present all or some of their
units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the applicable partnership
agreement. Under the DownREIT agreements, for each limited partnership unit, the limited
partner is entitled to receive cash in the amount equal to the fair value of the Company’s
common stock on or about the date of redemption. In lieu of cash redemption, the Company
may elect to exchange such units for an equal number of shares in the Company’s common
stock. The limited partnership units in DownREITs are valued using the market price of the
Company’s common stock, a Level 1 price under the fair value hierarchy. At December 31,
2008, the fair value of the DownREIT units was $1,177. At December 31, 2009, the fair value
of the DownREIT units was $1,260.

Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with various financial institutions within principal
protected accounts. The Company monitors credit ratings of these financial institutions and the
concentration of cash and cash equivalent balances with any one financial institution and believes
the likelihood of realizing material losses related to cash and cash equivalent balances is remote.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried at their face amounts, which reasonably approximate their
fair values.

Other Financial Instruments

Rents receivable, accounts and construction payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities are
carried at their face amounts, which reasonably approximate their fair values.

The Company values its bond indebtedness, notes payable and outstanding amounts under the Credit
Facility using a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each instrument. This
analysis reflects the contractual terms of the instrument, including the period to maturity, and
uses observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves. The process also considers
credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect the Company’s nonperformance risk. The
Company has concluded that the value of its bond indebtedness and notes payable are Level 2 prices
as the majority of the inputs used to value its positions fall within Level 2 of the fair value
hierarchy. Bond indebtedness, notes payable and outstanding amounts under the Company’s Credit
Facility (as applicable) with an aggregate outstanding par amount of approximately $3,977,320 and
$3,676,000 had an estimated aggregate fair value of $4,052,817 and $3,612,130 at December 31, 2009
and December 31, 2008, respectively.

12.

Related Party Arrangements

Unconsolidated Entities

The Company manages unconsolidated real estate entities for which it receives asset management,
property
management, development and redevelopment fee revenue. From these entities, the Company received
fees of $7,328, $6,568 and $6,142 in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. These fees are included in management, development and other fees on the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. In addition, the
Company has outstanding receivables associated with its management role of $2,344 and $5,043 as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Director Compensation

Directors of the Company who are also employees receive no additional compensation for their
services as a director. Following each annual meeting of stockholders starting with the 2006
annual meeting, non-employee directors receive (i) a number of shares of restricted stock (or
deferred stock awards) having a value of $100 and (ii) a cash payment of $40, payable in quarterly
installments of $10. After September 20, 2007, the cash payment increased to $50, payable in
quarterly installments of $12.5. The value of the restricted stock or deferred stock award
increased to $125 following

F-35

the 2008 annual meeting. The number of shares of restricted stock (or
deferred stock awards) is calculated based on the closing price on the day of the award.
Non-employee directors may elect to receive all or a portion of cash payments in the form of a
deferred stock award. In addition, the Lead Independent Director receives an annual fee of $30
payable in equal monthly installments of $2.5.

The Company recorded non-employee director compensation expense relating to the restricted stock
grants and deferred stock awards in the amount of $856, $2,170 and $855 for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively as a component of general and administrative
expense. Deferred compensation relating to these restricted stock grants and deferred stock awards
was $365 and $137 on December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Compensation expense
during 2008 includes additional expense associated primarily with the accelerated award vesting for
directors.

13.

Quarterly Financial Information

The following summary represents the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December
31, 2009 and
2008: (unaudited)

For the three months ended (4)

3-31-09

6-30-09

9-30-09

12-31-09

Total revenue

(1)

$

209,733

$

212,259

$

215,160

$

214,429

Income (loss) from continuing operations

(1) (2) (3)

$

43,153

$

13,076

$

27,623

$

(7,437

)

Income from discontinued operations

(1)

$

3,948

$

3,647

$

30,478

$

39,787

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

47,425

$

17,674

$

58,154

$

32,394

Net income per common share — basic

$

0.60

$

0.22

$

0.72

$

0.40

Net income per common share — diluted

$

0.59

$

0.22

$

0.72

$

0.40

For the three months ended (4)

3-31-08

6-30-08

9-30-08

12-31-08

Total revenue

(1)

$

194,314

$

201,165

$

208,378

$

210,366

Income (loss) from continuing operations

(1) (5)

$

40,145

$

44,636

$

43,460

$

(29,749

)

Income from discontinued operations

(1)

$

8,411

$

82,803

$

189,426

$

31,615

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

46,275

$

125,159

$

231,406

$

(1,806

)

Net income (loss) per common share — basic

$

0.60

$

1.63

$

3.00

$

(0.02

)

Net income (loss) per common share — diluted

$

0.60

$

1.61

$

2.98

$

(0.02

)

(1)

Amounts may not equal previously reported results due to reclassification between
income from continuing
operations and income from discontinued operations.

(2)

Income from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2009 includes an
impairment charge of
approximately $20,302 associated with the Company’s planned reduction in development
activity.

(3)

Income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2009 includes an
impairment charge of
approximately $850 associated with the Company’s planned reduction in development activity
and a
charge of approximately $26,000 related to the October 2009 tender offer.

(4)

Amounts may not equal full year results due to rounding.

(5)

Income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2008 includes an
impairment charge of
approximately $57,899 associated with the Company’s planned reduction in development
activity.

14.

Subsequent Events

The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date on which this Form 10-K was filed, the date on which these
financial statements were issued, and identified the items below for discussion.

In January 2010, the Company sold one community, Avalon at Danada Farms, located in Wheaton,
Illinois. Avalon at Danada Farms contains 295 apartment homes and was sold for $45,450. The Company
estimates that it will record at gain of approximately $18,000 related to this disposition.

In February 2010, Fund II purchased its third community, located in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
The community, renamed Avalon Rothbury, contains 203 homes and was acquired for a purchase price of
$31,250.

In February 2010, the Company sold one community, Avalon Knoll, located in Germantown, Maryland.
Avalon Knoll

F-36

contains 300 apartment homes and was sold for $37,500. The Company estimates that it
will record a gain of approximately $32,000 related to this disposition.

Also in February 2010, the Company repaid a 6.47% fixed rate secured mortgage note in the amount of
$13,961 in advance of its March 2012 schedule maturity date.

F-37

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Current Communities

City and state

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Avalon at Lexington

Lexington, MA

$

2,124

$

12,599

$

1,737

$

2,124

$

14,336

$

16,460

$

7,665

$

8,795

$

11,226


Avalon Oaks

Wilmington, MA

2,129

18,656


2,129

19,161

21,290

7,377

13,913

16,794


Avalon Summit

Quincy, MA

1,743

14,670

1,281

1,743

15,951

17,694

7,650

10,044

—

1986/1996

Avalon Essex

Peabody, MA

5,184

16,303


5,184

16,839

22,023

5,879

16,144

—


Avalon at Prudential Center

Boston, MA

25,811

104,399

27,123

25,811

131,522

157,333

48,332

109,001

—

1968/1998

Avalon Oaks West

Wilmington, MA

3,318

13,467


3,318

13,666

16,984

3,887

13,097

16,661


Avalon Orchards

Marlborough, MA

2,983

18,037


2,983

18,434

21,417

5,157

16,260

19,011


Avalon at Newton Highlands

Newton, MA

11,039

45,527


11,039

46,219

57,258

10,424

46,834

—


Avalon at The Pinehills I

Plymouth, MA

3,623

16,292


3,623

16,385

20,008

3,157

16,851

—


Avalon at Crane Brook

Peabody, MA

12,381

42,298


12,381

42,580

54,961

8,233

46,728

30,440


Essex Place

Peabody, MA

4,645

19,007

11,759

4,645

30,766

35,411

4,203

31,208

—


Avalon at Bedford Center

Bedford, MA

4,257

20,547

—

4,257

20,547

24,804

2,974

21,830

15,871


Avalon Chestnut Hill

Chestnut Hill, MA

14,572

45,911

—

14,572

45,911

60,483

5,190

55,293

41,501


Avalon Shrewsbury

Shrewsbury, MA

5,152

30,608

—

5,152

30,608

35,760

3,501

32,259

21,130


Avalon Danvers

Danvers, MA

7,009

75,947

—

7,009

75,947

82,956

5,981

76,975

—


Avalon Woburn

Woburn, MA

20,649

62,678

—

20,649

62,678

83,327

6,028

77,299

55,805


Avalon at Lexington Hills

Lexington, MA

8,544

78,440

—

8,544

78,440

86,984

5,278

81,706

—


Avalon Acton

Acton, MA

13,125

49,758

—

13,125

49,758

62,883

3,041

59,842

45,000


Avalon Sharon

Sharon, MA

4,719

25,502

—

4,719

25,502

30,221

1,379

28,842

—


Avalon at Center Place

Providence, RI

—

26,816

2,721

—

29,537

29,537

13,094

16,443

—

1991/1997

Avalon at Hingham Shipyard

Hingham, MA

12,208

42,013

—

12,208

42,013

54,221

1,551

52,670

—


Avalon Northborough I

Northborough, MA

3,304

21,726

—

3,304

21,726

25,030


24,704

—


Avalon Blue Hills

Randolph, MA

11,051

34,265

—

11,051

34,265

45,316


44,771

—


Avalon Gates

Trumbull, CT

4,414

31,268

2,030

4,414

33,298

37,712

14,481

23,231

41,321


Avalon Glen

Stamford, CT

5,956

23,993

2,617

5,956

26,610

32,566

14,513

18,053

—


Avalon Springs

Wilton, CT

2,116

14,664


2,116

15,183

17,299

6,711

10,588

—


Avalon Valley

Danbury, CT

2,277

23,781


2,277

24,166

26,443

8,970

17,473

—


Avalon on Stamford Harbor

Stamford, CT

10,836

51,989


10,836

52,133

62,969

13,974

48,995

65,695


Avalon New Canaan

New Canaan, CT

4,834

19,485


4,834

19,635

24,469

5,296

19,173

—


Avalon at Greyrock Place

Stamford, CT

13,819

56,499


13,819

57,025

70,844

14,761

56,083

61,690


Avalon Danbury

Danbury, CT

4,933

30,581


4,933

30,688

35,621

4,841

30,780

—


Avalon Darien

Darien, CT

6,926

34,594


6,926

34,672

41,598

7,571

34,027

51,172


Avalon Milford I

Milford, CT

8,746

22,699


8,746

22,755

31,501

4,444

27,057

—


Avalon Huntington

Shelton, CT

5,048

20,166

—

5,048

20,166

25,214


24,444

—


Avalon Commons

Smithtown, NY

4,679

28,509


4,679

29,426

34,105

12,484

21,621

55,100


Avalon Towers

Long Beach, NY

3,118

12,709

5,767

3,118

18,476

21,594

8,200

13,394

—

1990/1995

Avalon Court

Melville, NY

9,228

50,021

1,162

9,228

51,183

60,411

19,362

41,049

—

1997/2000

Avalon at Glen Cove South

Glen Cove, NY

7,871

59,969


7,871

60,281

68,152

11,516

56,636

—


Avalon Pines I & II

Coram, NY

8,700

62,931


8,700

63,012

71,712

9,957

61,755

—


Avalon at Glen Cove North

Glen Cove, NY

2,577

37,336


2,577

37,367

39,944

3,447

36,497

—


Avalon Cove

Jersey City, NJ

8,760

82,453

2,368

8,760

84,821

93,581

37,233

56,348

—


Avalon at Edgewater

Edgewater, NJ

14,528

60,240


14,528

60,910

75,438

17,650

57,788

78,565


Avalon at Florham Park

Florham Park, NJ

6,647

34,906


6,647

35,468

42,115

11,522

30,593

—


Avalon Lyndhurst

Lyndhurst, NJ

18,621

62,363

—

18,621

62,363

80,984

5,989

74,995

—


Avalon Run & Run East

Lawrenceville, NJ

14,650

60,486

1,589

14,650

62,075

76,725

12,208

64,517

—


Avalon Watch

West Windsor, NJ

5,585

22,394

8,132

5,585

30,526

36,111

14,120

21,991

—


Avalon at Freehold

Freehold, NJ

4,119

30,514


4,119

30,707

34,826

8,788

26,038

36,630


F-38

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Current Communities

City and state

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Avalon Run East II

Lawrenceville, NJ

6,766

45,377


6,766

45,472

52,238

8,300

43,938

39,250


Avalon at Tinton Falls

Tinton Falls, NJ

7,939

33,106

—

7,939

33,106

41,045

1,745

39,300

—


Avalon Gardens

Nanuet, NY

8,428

45,660

1,491

8,428

47,151

55,579

19,573

36,006

66,237


Avalon Green

Elmsford, NY

1,820

10,525

1,606

1,820

12,131

13,951

5,859

8,092

—


Avalon Willow

Mamaroneck, NY

6,207

40,791


6,207

41,396

47,603

14,622

32,981

—


The Avalon

Bronxville, NY

2,889

28,324


2,889

28,690

31,579

10,346

21,233

—


Avalon on the Sound

New Rochelle, NY

—

116,239

1,115

—

117,354

117,354

30,833

86,521

—


Avalon Riverview I

Long Island City, NY

—

94,166

1,068

—

95,234

95,234

24,868

70,366

—


Avalon Bowery Place I

New York, NY

18,575

73,555


18,575

74,235

92,810

8,354

84,456

93,800


Avalon Riverview North

Long Island City, NY

—

169,057


—

169,329

169,329

12,779

156,550

—


Avalon on the Sound East

New Rochelle, NY

—

179,427


—

179,654

179,654

13,750

165,904

—


Avalon Bowery Place II

New York, NY

9,104

46,628


9,104

46,662

55,766

3,384

52,382

48,500


Avalon White Plains

White Plains, NY

15,328

135,103

—

15,328

135,103

150,431

3,336

147,095

—


Avalon Morningside Park

New York, NY

—

109,654

—

—

109,654

109,654

4,356

105,298

100,000


Avalon Charles Pond

Coram, NY

14,719

33,359

—

14,719

33,359

48,078


47,320

—


Avalon at Fairway Hills I, II, & III

Columbia, MD

8,603

34,432

9,913

8,603

44,345

52,948

20,007

32,941

—

1987/1996

Avalon Symphony Woods (SGlen)

Columbia, MD

1,594

6,384

5,850

1,594

12,234

13,828

4,880

8,948

9,780


Avalon Symphony Woods (SGate)

Columbia, MD

7,207

29,151

5,394

7,207

34,545

41,752

3,207

38,545

—

1986/2006

Avalon at Foxhall

Washington, DC

6,848

27,614

10,624

6,848

38,238

45,086

18,068

27,018

59,010


Avalon at Gallery Place I

Washington, DC

8,800

39,731


8,800

40,245

49,045

9,641

39,404

45,850


Avalon at Decoverly

Rockville, MD

11,865

49,686

1,973

11,865

51,659

63,524

15,969

47,555

—

1991/1995

Avalon Fields I

Gaithersburg, MD

2,608

11,707


2,608

11,933

14,541

5,773

8,768

9,714


Avalon Fields II

Gaithersburg, MD

1,439

6,846


1,439

6,894

8,333

2,811

5,522

—


Avalon at Rock Spring

North Bethesda, MD

—

81,796


—

82,586

82,586

19,880

62,706

—


Avalon at Grosvenor Station

North Bethesda, MD

29,159

53,001


29,159

53,293

82,452

11,571

70,881

—


Avalon at Traville

North Potomac, MD

14,365

55,398


14,365

55,737

70,102

11,754

58,348

77,700


Avalon Fair Lakes

Fairfax, VA

6,096

24,400

7,390

6,096

31,790

37,886

12,046

25,840

—

1989/1996

Avalon at Ballston — Washington
Towers

Arlington, VA

7,291

29,177

2,747

7,291

31,924

39,215

16,970

22,245

—


Avalon at Cameron Court

Alexandria, VA

10,292

32,930

1,360

10,292

34,290

44,582

13,844

30,738

94,572


Avalon at Providence Park

Fairfax, VA

2,152

8,907


2,152

9,790

11,942

4,320

7,622

—

1988/1997

Avalon Crescent

McLean, VA

13,851

43,397


13,851

44,070

57,921

19,071

38,850

110,600


Avalon at Arlington Square

Arlington, VA

22,041

90,296

1,342

22,041

91,638

113,679

26,837

86,842

170,125


Avalon Knoll

Germantown, MD

1,412

5,673

1,918

1,412

7,591

9,003

4,849

4,154

—


Avalon at Danada Farms

Wheaton, IL

7,535

31,299

1,196

7,535

32,495

40,030

13,150

26,880

—


Avalon at Stratford Green

Bloomingdale, IL

4,326

17,569


4,326

17,927

22,253

7,381

14,872

—


Avalon Arlington Heights

Arlington Heights, IL

9,750

39,661

7,575

9,750

47,236

56,986

14,041

42,945

—

1987/2000

Avalon Redmond Place

Redmond, WA

4,558

18,368

8,996

4,558

27,364

31,922

9,630

22,292

—

1991/1997

Avalon at Bear Creek

Redmond, WA

6,786

27,641

1,856

6,786

29,497

36,283

11,304

24,979

—


Avalon Bellevue

Bellevue, WA

6,664

24,119


6,664

24,429

31,093

7,790

23,303

26,698


Avalon RockMeadow

Bothell, WA

4,777

19,742


4,777

20,255

25,032

6,776

18,256

—


Avalon WildReed

Everett, WA

4,253

18,676


4,253

18,879

23,132

6,266

16,866

—


Avalon HighGrove

Everett, WA

7,569

32,041


7,569

32,373

39,942

10,327

29,615

—


Avalon ParcSquare

Redmond, WA

3,789

15,146


3,789

15,753

19,542

5,267

14,275

—


Avalon Brandemoor

Lynwood, WA

8,608

36,679


8,608

37,083

45,691

11,437

34,254

—


Avalon Belltown

Seattle, WA

5,644

12,733


5,644

12,855

18,499

3,947

14,552

—


Avalon Meydenbauer

Bellevue, WA

12,654

76,711

—

12,654

76,711

89,365

4,347

85,018

—


Avalon Fremont

Fremont, CA

10,746

43,399

3,166

10,746

46,565

57,311

18,921

38,390

—


Avalon Dublin

Dublin, CA

5,276

19,642

3,776

5,276

23,418

28,694

9,316

19,378

—

1989/1997

Avalon Pleasanton

Pleasanton, CA

11,610

46,552

7,864

11,610

54,416

66,026

21,581

44,445

—

1988/1994

F-39

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Current Communities

City and state

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Avalon at Union Square

Union City, CA

4,249

16,820

1,855

4,249

18,675

22,924

7,781

15,143

—

1973/1996

Waterford

Hayward, CA

11,324

45,717

5,149

11,324

50,866

62,190

21,665

40,525

33,100

1985/1986

Avalon at Willow Creek

Fremont, CA

6,581

26,583

3,329

6,581

29,912

36,493

12,690

23,803

—

1985/1994

Avalon at Dublin Station

Dublin, CA

10,058

74,298


10,058

74,322

84,380

4,782

79,598

—


Avalon Union City

Union City, CA

14,731

104,009

—

14,731

104,009

118,740

1,419

117,321

—


Avalon at Cedar Ridge

Daly City, CA

4,230

9,659

15,252

4,230

24,911

29,141

9,494

19,647

—

1972/1997

Avalon at Nob Hill

San Francisco, CA

5,403

21,567

1,222

5,403

22,789

28,192

9,230

18,962

20,800

1990/1995

Crowne Ridge

San Rafael, CA

5,982

16,885

10,233

5,982

27,118

33,100

11,722

21,378

—

1973/1996

Avalon Foster City

Foster City, CA

7,852

31,445

4,894

7,852

36,339

44,191

14,202

29,989

—

1973/1994

Avalon Towers by the Bay

San Francisco, CA

9,155

57,631


9,155

57,900

67,055

20,408

46,647

—


Avalon Pacifica

Pacifica, CA

6,125

24,796

1,560

6,125

26,356

32,481

10,728

21,753

17,600

1971/1995

Avalon Sunset Towers

San Francisco, CA

3,561

21,321

4,008

3,561

25,329

28,890

10,779

18,111

—

1961/1996

Avalon at Diamond Heights

San Francisco, CA

4,726

19,130

5,077

4,726

24,207

28,933

8,727

20,206

—

1972/1994

Avalon at Mission Bay North

San Francisco, CA

14,029

78,452


14,029

79,119

93,148

19,006

74,142

73,269


Avalon at Mission Bay III

San Francisco, CA

28,686

118,227

—

28,686

118,227

146,913

1,575

145,338

—


Avalon Campbell

Campbell, CA

11,830

47,828

1,014

11,830

48,842

60,672

19,295

41,377

38,800


CountryBrook

San Jose, CA

9,384

38,791

4,699

9,384

43,490

52,874

16,369

36,505

13,961

1985/1996

Avalon on the Alameda

San Jose, CA

6,119

50,230


6,119

50,820

56,939

18,997

37,942

53,980


Avalon Rosewalk

San Jose, CA

15,814

62,028

2,130

15,814

64,158

79,972

25,022

54,950

—

1997/1999

Avalon Silicon Valley

Sunnyvale, CA

20,713

99,573

3,241

20,713

102,814

123,527

40,874

82,653

150,000


Avalon Mountain View

Mountain View, CA

9,755

39,393

9,735

9,755

49,128

58,883

17,196

41,687

18,300


Avalon at Creekside

Mountain View, CA

6,546

26,301

10,810

6,546

37,111

43,657

14,259

29,398

—

1962/1997

Avalon at Cahill Park

San Jose, CA

4,765

47,600


4,765

47,982

52,747

12,627

40,120

—


Avalon Towers on the Peninsula

Mountain View, CA

9,560

56,136


9,560

56,251

65,811

15,440

50,371

—


Countrybrook II

San Jose, CA

3,536

14,256


3,536

14,469

18,005

1,232

16,773

—


Avalon Newport

Costa Mesa, CA

1,975

3,814

4,652

1,975

8,466

10,441

3,450

6,991

—

1956/1996

Avalon Mission Viejo

Mission Viejo, CA

2,517

9,257

2,346

2,517

11,603

14,120

5,014

9,106

7,635

1984/1996

Avalon at South Coast

Costa Mesa, CA

4,709

16,063

5,255

4,709

21,318

26,027

9,051

16,976

—

1973/1996

Rancho Santa

Avalon Santa Margarita

Margarita, CA

4,607

16,911

3,009

4,607

19,920

24,527

8,276

16,251

—

1990/1997

Avalon at Pacific Bay

Huntington Beach, CA

4,871

19,745

8,617

4,871

28,362

33,233

11,177

22,056

—

1971/1997

Avalon Warner Place

Canoga Park, CA

7,920

44,822

—

7,920

44,822

52,742

2,468

50,274

—


Avalon Anaheim Stadium

Anaheim, CA

27,853

69,188


27,853

69,960

97,813

1,880

95,933

—


Avalon at Mission Bay

San Diego, CA

9,922

40,633

16,331

9,922

56,964

66,886

21,989

44,897

—

1969/1997

Avalon at Mission Ridge

San Diego, CA

2,710

10,924

9,032

2,710

19,956

22,666

8,278

14,388

—

1960/1997

Avalon at Cortez Hill

San Diego, CA

2,768

20,134

11,843

2,768

31,977

34,745

12,525

22,220

—

1973/1998

Avalon Fashion Valley

San Diego, CA

19,627

44,913

—

19,627

44,913

64,540

1,823

62,717

—


Avalon at Media Center

Burbank, CA

22,483

28,104

27,138

22,483

55,242

77,725

20,885

56,840

—

1961/1997

Avalon Woodland Hills

Woodland Hills, CA

23,828

40,372

43,701

23,828

84,073

107,901

21,299

86,602

—

1989/1997

Avalon at Warner Center

Woodland Hills, CA

7,045

12,986

7,533

7,045

20,519

27,564

9,012

18,552

—

1979/1998

Avalon Glendale

Burbank, CA

—

41,434


—

41,567

41,567

9,350

32,217

—


Avalon Burbank

Burbank, CA

14,053

56,827

20,773

14,053

77,600

91,653

15,264

76,389

29,387

1988/2002

Avalon Camarillo

Camarillo, CA

8,447

40,291

—

8,447

40,291

48,738

5,205

43,533

—


Avalon Wilshire

Los Angeles, CA

5,459

41,182


5,459

41,417

46,876

3,708

43,168

—


Avalon Encino

Los Angeles, CA

12,788

48,866


12,788

49,027

61,815

1,955

59,860

—


1,138,797

5,796,633

420,833

1,138,797

6,217,466

7,356,263

1,493,630

5,862,633

2,072,280

Development Communities

Avalon Irvine

Irvine, CA

6,750

46,416

22,938

6,750

69,354

76,104


75,538

—

N/A

Avalon Walnut Creek

Walnut Creek, CA

—


98,450

—

98,820

98,820

—

98,820

137,500

N/A

F-40

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Current Communities

City and state

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Avalon Norwalk

Norwalk, CT

—


50,612

—

50,771

50,771

—

50,771

—

N/A

Avalon Fort Greene

Brooklyn, NY

10,423

29,562

219,687

10,423

249,249

259,672


259,589

—

N/A

Avalon Towers Bellevue

Bellevue, WA

—


73,449

—

73,799

73,799

—

73,799

—

N/A

Avalon Northborough II

Northborough, MA

—


18,717

—

18,901

18,901

—

18,901

—

N/A

Avalon at West Long Branch

West Long Branch, NJ

—

—

2,219

—

2,219

2,219

—

2,219

—

N/A

17,173

77,041

486,072

17,173

563,113

580,286


579,637

137,500

Land held for development

237,095

—

—

237,095

—

237,095

—

237,095

107,063

Corporate Overhead

103,656

39,633

43,158

103,656

82,791

186,447

32,325

154,122

1,658,029

$

1,496,721

$

5,913,307

$

950,063

$

1,496,721

$

6,863,370

$

8,360,091

$

1,526,604

$

6,833,487

$

3,974,872

F-41

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2009

(Dollars in thousands)

Amounts include real estate assets held for sale.

Depreciation of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. building, improvements, upgrades and furniture,
fixtures and equipment (FF&E) is calculated over the following useful lives, on a straight line
basis:

Building — 30 years

Improvements, upgrades and FF&E — not to exceed 7 years

The aggregate cost of total real estate for federal income tax purposes was approximately
$8,179,000 at December 31, 2009.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are as
follows:

Years ended December 31,




Balance, beginning of period

$

8,002,487

$

7,556,740

$

6,615,593

Acquisitions, construction costs and improvements

493,196

757,835

1,097,959

Dispositions, including impairment loss on
planned dispositions

(135,592

)

(312,088

)

(156,812

)

Balance, end of period

$

8,360,091

$

8,002,487

$

7,556,740

The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, are
as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Balance, beginning of period

$

1,352,744

$

1,259,558

$

1,105,231

Depreciation, including
discontinued operations

218,286

199,452

180,697

Dispositions

(44,426

)

(106,266

)

(26,370

)

Balance, end of period

$

1,526,604

$

1,352,744

$

1,259,558

F - 42