ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



Unum Group, a Delaware general business corporation, and its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, which collectively with Unum Group we refer to as the Company, operate in the United States, the United Kingdom, and, to a limited extent, in certain other countries.  The principal operating subsidiaries in the United States are Unum Life Insurance Company of America (Unum America), Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company (Provident), The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company (Paul Revere Life), and Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company, and in the United Kingdom, Unum Limited.  We are the largest provider of disability insurance products in the United States and the United Kingdom.  We also provide a complementary portfolio of other insurance products, including employer- and employee-paid group benefits, life insurance, and other related services.



We have three principal operating business segments: Unum US, Unum UK, and Colonial Life.  Our other segments are the Closed Block and Corporate segments.  These segments are discussed more fully under "Reporting Segments" included herein in this Item 1.



Business Strategies



The benefits we provide help protect people from the financial hardship of illness, injury, or loss of life by providing support when it is needed most.  As one of the leading providers of employee benefits in the U.S. and the U.K., we offer a broad portfolio of products and services through the workplace.



Specifically, we offer group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that help employers of all sizes attract and retain a stronger workforce while protecting the incomes and livelihood of their employees.  We believe employer-sponsored benefits represent the single most effective way to provide workers with access to the information and options they need to protect their financial stability.  Working people and their families, particularly those at lower and middle incomes, are perhaps the most vulnerable in today's economy yet are often overlooked by many providers of financial services and products.  For many of these people, employer-sponsored benefits are the primary defense against the potentially catastrophic fallout of death, illness, or injury.



We have established a corporate culture consistent with the social values our products provide.  We are committed not only to meeting the needs of our customers who depend on us, but also to operating with integrity and being accountable for our actions.  Our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently as well as to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business.  We have also applied these same values to our social responsibility efforts.  Because we see important links between the obligations we have to all of our stakeholders, we place a strong emphasis on contributing to positive change in our communities.



We believe our disciplined approach to providing financial protection products at the workplace puts us in a position of strength as we seek to capitalize on the growing and largely unfilled need for our products and services.  While we anticipate the environment for 2014 will be somewhat similar to modestly improving from 2013, with below-average economic growth, relatively low interest rates, and continued political uncertainty, we have strategies in place which we believe will help us navigate this environment.










Reporting Segments



Our reporting segments are comprised of the following: Unum US, Unum UK, Colonial Life, Closed Block, and Corporate.  Measured as a percentage of our 2013 consolidated premium income, our premium income was approximately 59.2 percent for Unum US, 7.3 percent for Unum UK, 16.2 percent for Colonial Life, and 17.3 percent for Closed Block.  Financial information is provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.



Unum US Segment



Our Unum US segment includes group long-term and short-term disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment products, and supplemental and voluntary lines of business.  The supplemental and voluntary lines of business are comprised of individual disability - recently issued insurance and voluntary benefits products.  Unum US products are issued primarily by Unum America and Provident.  Paul Revere Life previously issued products reported in our Unum US segment and continues to service the in-force policies, but Paul Revere Life no longer actively markets new business.  Premium income for Unum US totaled $4,517.1 million in 2013.  These products are marketed through our field sales personnel who work in conjunction with independent brokers and consultants.  Our market strategy for Unum US is to effectively deliver an integrated offering of employee benefit products, with a focus on benefit offerings in the group core market segment, which we define for Unum US as employee groups with fewer than 2,000 lives, and the voluntary benefits market segment.



Group Long-term and Short-term Disability



Group long-term and short-term disability products contributed approximately 45.9 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2013.  We sell group long-term and short-term disability products to employers for the benefit of employees.  Group long-term disability provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury.  We offer services to employers and insureds to encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment.  Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee reaches a certain age, generally between 65 and 70.  The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.



Group short-term disability insurance generally provides coverage from loss of income due to injury or sickness, effective immediately for accidents and after one week for sickness, for up to 26 weeks, limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.



Premiums for group long-term and short-term disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  In some cases, coverage for large employers will include retrospective experience rating provisions or will be underwritten on an experience-rated basis.  Premiums for experience-rated group long-term and short-term disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given its demographics, industry group, and location, adjusted for the credibility of the specific claim experience of the client.  Both group long-term and short-term disability are sold primarily on a basis permitting periodic repricing to address the underlying claims experience.  We also offer fee-based administrative services only (ASO) products, where the responsibility for funding claim payments remains with the customer, and fee-based family medical leave products.



We have defined underwriting practices and procedures.  If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability.  Policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees.  For new group policyholders, the usual rate guarantee is one to three years.  For group policies being renewed, the rate guarantee is generally one year, but may be longer.  The profitability of the policy depends on the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period.  The contracts provide for certain circumstances in which the rate guarantees can be overridden.



Profitability of group long-term and short-term disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.  Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience, and many economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for disability insurance.  We routinely make pricing adjustments on our group insurance products, when contractually permitted, which take into account emerging experience and external factors.










Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment



Group life and accidental death and dismemberment products contributed approximately 29.6 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2013.  Group life and accidental death and dismemberment products are sold to employers as employee benefit products.  Group life consists primarily of renewable term life insurance with the coverages frequently linked to employees' wages and includes a provision for waiver of premium, if disabled.  Accidental death and dismemberment consists primarily of an additional benefit amount payable if death or severe injury is attributable to an accident.



Premiums are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Underwriting practices and rate guarantees are similar to those used for group disability products, and evidence of insurability is required for benefits in excess of a specified limit.



Profitability of group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Individual Disability - Recently Issued



Individual disability - recently issued products generated approximately 10.3 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2013.  The policies included in this line of business were issued subsequent to the mid 1990s after substantial changes in product design were implemented to improve the overall risk profile of this type of product.  Individual disability is offered primarily to multi-life employer groups to supplement their group disability plans and may be funded by the employer, but the policy is owned by the employee and is portable.  Individual disability insurance provides the insured with a portion of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury.  The benefits, including the underlying group disability coverage, typically range from 30 percent to 75 percent of the insured's monthly earned income.  We provide various options with respect to length of benefit periods, product features, and waiting periods before benefit payments begin, which permits tailoring of the multi-life plan to a specific employer's needs.  We also market individual disability policies which include payments for the transfer of business ownership between partners and payments for business overhead expenses, also on a multi-life basis.  Individual disability products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.



Premium rates for individual disability products vary by age, product feature, and occupation based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own experience.  Our underwriting rules, issue limits, and plan designs reflect the financial circumstances of prospective insureds.  Individuals in multi-life groups may be subject to limited medical underwriting.  The majority of our individual disability - recently issued policies are written on a noncancelable basis.  Under a noncancelable policy, as long as the insured continues to pay the fixed annual premium for the policy's duration, we cannot cancel the policy or change the premium.



Profitability of individual disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Voluntary Benefits



Voluntary benefits products generated approximately 14.2 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2013.  Voluntary benefits products are primarily sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at the workplace and include life, disability, accident, hospital indemnity, cancer, and critical illness offered on both a group and individual basis.



Premium rates for voluntary benefits products are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables.  Our underwriters evaluate the medical condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy on a simplified basis.  Underwriting requirements may be waived for cases that meet certain criteria, including participation levels.  Individual voluntary benefits products other than life insurance, and generally our group products as well, are offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval.



Profitability of voluntary benefits products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.










Unum UK Segment



Our Unum UK segment includes insurance for group long-term disability, group life, and supplemental lines of business which include individual disability and critical illness products.  Unum UK's products are issued primarily by Unum Limited and are sold in the United Kingdom through field sales personnel and independent brokers and consultants.  Premium income for Unum UK totaled $556.6 million in 2013, or £355.9 million in local currency.  Our market strategy for Unum UK is to offer benefits to employers and employees through the workplace with a focus on expansion of the number of employers and employees covered in our core market segment, which we define for Unum UK as employee groups with fewer than 500 lives.



Group Long-term Disability



Group long-term disability products contributed approximately 70.1 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2013.  Group long-term disability products are sold to employers for the benefit of employees.  Group long-term disability provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury.  Services are offered to employers and insureds to encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment.  Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee reaches a certain age, generally between 60 and 67.  The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.



Premiums for group long-term disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Some cases carry experience rating provisions.  Premiums for experience-rated group long-term disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given its demographics, industry group, and location, adjusted for the credibility of the specific claim experience of the client.



We have defined underwriting practices and procedures.  If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability.  Policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees.  The usual rate guarantee is two years but may vary depending on circumstances.  The profitability of the policy is dependent upon the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period.  The contracts provide for certain circumstances in which the rate guarantees can be overridden.



Profitability of group long-term disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.  Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience.



Group Life



Group life products contributed approximately 19.1 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2013.  Group life products are sold to employers as employee benefit products.  Group life consists of two types of products, a renewable term life insurance product providing a lump sum benefit to the beneficiary on death of an employee and a group dependent life product, which we discontinued offering to new customers in 2012, which provides an annuity to the beneficiary upon the death of an employee.  Both coverages are frequently linked to employees' wages.  Premiums for group life are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those utilized for group long-term disability products.



Profitability of group life is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Individual Disability



Individual disability products generated approximately 6.1 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2013.  Individual disability is offered primarily to individual retail customers.  Individual disability insurance provides the insured with a portion of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury.  Under an individual disability policy, monthly benefits generally are fixed at the time the policy is written.  The benefits typically range from 30 percent to 50 percent of the insured's monthly earned income.  Various options with respect to length of benefit periods and waiting periods before payment begins are available and permit tailoring of the policy to a specific policyholder's needs.  Individual disability products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.










Premium rates for individual disability products vary by age and occupation based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables.  Our underwriters evaluate the medical and financial condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy.  Approximately one half of our individual disability policies are written on a noncancelable basis.  The remainder is offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies.



Profitability of individual disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Critical Illness



Critical illness products generated approximately 4.7 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2013.  Group critical illness products are sold to groups of employees.  Individual critical illness products are offered to individual retail customers.  Critical illness products provide a lump-sum benefit on the occurrence of a covered critical illness event.



Premiums for group critical illness products are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those utilized for group long-term disability products.  Premium rates for individual critical illness products vary by age and are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Individual critical illness insurance is offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims experience and published industry tables.  Our underwriters evaluate the medical condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy.



Profitability of these products is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Colonial Life Segment



Our Colonial Life segment includes insurance for accident, sickness, and disability products, life products, and cancer and critical illness products issued primarily by Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company and marketed to employees, on both a group and an individual basis, at the workplace through an independent contractor agency sales force and brokers.  Premium income for Colonial Life totaled $1,232.2 million in 2013.  Our market strategy for Colonial Life is to effectively deliver a broad set of voluntary products and services with a focus on the core market segment, which we define for Colonial Life as accounts with fewer than 1,000 lives, and in the commercial and public sector markets.



We have defined underwriting practices and procedures for each of our products.  Most policies are issued on a simplified issue basis, based on answers to simple health and employment questions.  If the amount applied for exceeds certain levels, the applicant may be asked to answer additional health questions or submit to additional medical examinations.



Accident, Sickness, and Disability



The accident, sickness, and disability product line, which generated approximately 60.0 percent of the Colonial Life segment premium income in 2013, consists of short-term disability plans as well as accident-only plans providing benefits for injuries on a specified loss basis.  It also includes accident and health plans covering hospital admissions, confinement, and surgeries on an indemnity basis.



Premiums for accident, sickness, and disability products are generally based on assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own experience.  Premiums are primarily individual guaranteed renewable for which we have the ability to change premiums on a state by state basis.  A small percentage of the policies are written on a group basis for which we retain the right to change premiums at the individual account level.



Profitability is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.










The accident and health products qualify as fringe benefits that can be purchased with pre-tax employee dollars as part of a flexible benefits program pursuant to Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code.  Flexible benefits programs assist employers in managing benefit and compensation packages and provide policyholders the ability to choose benefits that best meet their needs.  Laws could be changed to limit or eliminate fringe benefits available on a pre-tax basis, eliminating our ability to continue marketing our products this way.  However, we believe our products provide value to our policyholders that will remain even if the tax advantages offered by flexible benefits programs are modified or eliminated.



Life



Life products contributed approximately 17.9 percent of the Colonial Life segment premium income in 2013 and are primarily comprised of universal life, whole life, and term life policies.



Premium rates vary by age and are based on assumptions concerning mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own experience and published industry tables.  Premiums for the whole life and level term products are guaranteed for the life of the contract.  Premiums for the universal life products are flexible and may vary at the individual policyholder level.  For the group term life products, we retain the right to change premiums at the account level based on the experience of the account.



Profitability is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Cancer and Critical Illness



Cancer and critical illness policies generated approximately 22.1 percent of the Colonial Life segment premium income in 2013.  Cancer policies provide various benefits for the treatment of cancer including hospitalization, surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy.  Critical illness policies provide a lump-sum benefit and/or fixed payments on the occurrence of a covered critical illness event.



Premiums are generally based on assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own experience.  Premiums are primarily individual guaranteed renewable wherein we have the ability to change premiums on a state by state basis.



Profitability of these products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Closed Block Segment



Our Closed Block segment consists of individual disability, group and individual long-term care, and other insurance products no longer actively marketed.  Premium income for Closed Block totaled $1,318.8 million in 2013.



Individual Disability



Individual disability policies generated approximately 52.1 percent of the Closed Block segment premium income in 2013.  We sold these types of policies on a limited basis subsequent to the mid-1990s and entirely discontinued issuing new policies in this closed block of business in 2004, other than through update features contractually allowable on existing policies.



The majority of the policies represent individual disability insurance which was written on a noncancelable basis and was marketed on a single-life customer basis.



Profitability is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.










Group and Individual Long-term Care



Long-term care policies generated approximately 47.8 percent of the Closed Block segment premium income in 2013.  We discontinued offering individual long-term care in 2009 and group long-term care in 2012, other than features contractually allowable on existing group policies.  Group long-term care was previously offered to employers for the benefit of employees. Individual long-term care was previously marketed on a single-life customer basis.



Long-term care insurance pays a benefit upon the loss of two or more activities of daily living and the insured's requirement of standby assistance or cognitive impairment.  Payment is generally made on an indemnity basis, regardless of expenses incurred, up to a lifetime maximum.  Benefits begin after a waiting period, usually 90 days or less, and are generally paid for a period of three years, six years, or lifetime.



Our long-term care insurance was sold on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval.  Premium rates for long-term care vary by age and are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables.



Profitability is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Other



Other insurance products not actively marketed include group pension, individual life and corporate-owned life insurance, reinsurance pools and management operations, and other miscellaneous product lines.  The majority of these products have been reinsured, with approximately 80 percent of reserves at December 31, 2013 ceded to other insurance companies.  These products contributed approximately 0.1 percent of the Closed Block segment premium income in 2013.



Corporate Segment



Our Corporate segment includes investment income on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, interest expense on corporate debt other than non-recourse debt, and certain other corporate income and expense not allocated to a line of business.



Reinsurance



In the normal course of business, we assume reinsurance from and cede reinsurance to other insurance companies.  In a reinsurance transaction, a reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurer for part or all of its liability under a policy or policies it has issued for an agreed upon premium.  We undertake reinsurance transactions for both risk management and capital management.  If the assuming reinsurer in a reinsurance agreement is unable to meet its obligations, we remain contingently liable.  In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreement, reinsurance recoverable balances could become uncollectible.  We evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers to whom we cede business and monitor concentration of credit risk to minimize our exposure.  We may also require assets to be held in trust, letters of credit, or other acceptable collateral to support reinsurance recoverable balances.  The collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers.  Although we have controls to minimize our exposure, the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



In general, the maximum amount of life insurance risk retained by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries and not ceded is $750,000 per covered life per policy under a group or individual life policy and under a group or individual accidental death and dismemberment policy.  For Unum Limited life insurance risk, during 2013 we had reinsurance agreements which provided50 percentcoverage up to £500,000 per covered life and100 percentcoverage per covered life above that amount for the existing in-force block of group life business as well as any new policies issued during the term of the agreements.  During 2014, we intend to continue with Unum Limited's reinsurance program, although we have increased our retention level for group life products that provide lump sum benefits.



We have reinsurance agreements on approximately 77 percent of our Closed Block individual disability business.  As of December 31, 2013, this reinsurance covers approximately 67 percent of that portion of the consolidated risk above a $6.6 billion retention limit.  The risk limit for the reinsurer grows over time to a maximum of $2.2 billion, after which any further losses will revert to us.








We have global catastrophic reinsurance coverage which includes five layers of coverage to limit our exposure under life, accidental death and dismemberment, long-term care, and disability policies in regards to a catastrophic event.  We have 50 percent reinsurance coverage in the first layer, 80 percent coverage in the second, third, and fourth layers, and 60 percent coverage in the fifth layer, for a total of $475 million of catastrophic coverage, after a $50 million deductible.  Layer one provides $25 million of coverage, layers two through four provide $40 million, $80 million, and $120 million of coverage, respectively, and layer five provides $210 million of coverage.  Each layer provides coverage for all catastrophic events, including acts of war and any type of terrorism.  In addition to the global catastrophic reinsurance coverage noted above, Unum Limited has additional catastrophic coverage via an arms-length, inter-company reinsurance agreement with Unum America, under similar terms as the global catastrophic treaties.  The coverage is placed at 40 percent reinsurance for a total of £75 million of catastrophic coverage, after a £225 million deductible.  Events may occur which limit or eliminate the availability of catastrophic reinsurance coverage in future years.



We have a quota share reinsurance agreement under which we cede certain blocks of Unum US group long-term disability claims.  The agreement is on a combination coinsurance with funds withheld and modified coinsurance basis and provides 80 percent quota share reinsurance on the ceded claims.  We also have three reinsurance agreements that collectively cede approximately 50 percent of Unum US group life risk up to our per person retention limit for our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.These reinsurance agreements for Unum US group disability and group life allow us to more effectively manage capital in conformity with statutory accounting principles but do not meet insurance risk transfer in accordance with applicable U.S generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and therefore are not accounted for as reinsurance in our consolidated GAAP financial statements.



Certain of our domestic insurance subsidiaries cede blocks of business to Northwind Reinsurance Company (Northwind Re), Tailwind Reinsurance Company (Tailwind Re), and UnumProvident International Ltd. (UPIL), all of which are affiliated captive reinsurance subsidiaries (captive reinsurers) with Unum Group as the ultimate parent.  These captive reinsurers were established for the limited purpose of reinsuring risks attributable to specified policies issued or reinsured by our insurance subsidiaries in order to effectively manage risks in connection with certain blocks of our business as well as to enhance our capital efficiency.  The captive reinsurers are domiciled in the United States.  UPIL, which was previously domiciled in Bermuda, was re-domesticated to the United States during 2013.  On a consolidated reporting basis for Unum Group, financial statement impacts of these intercompany reinsurance arrangements are eliminated in accordance with GAAP.



For further discussion of our reinsurance activities, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A, "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Captive Reinsurance Subsidiaries" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 1, 12, and 15 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.



Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits



The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require that they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies.  These reserves are the amounts which, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature.  These laws specify that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates, and methods of valuation required for statutory accounting.



The reserves reported in our financial statements contained herein are calculated in conformity with GAAP and differ from those specified by the laws of the various states and reported in the statutory financial statements of our life insurance subsidiaries.  These differences result from the use of mortality and morbidity tables and interest assumptions which we believe are more representative of the expected experience for these policies than those required for statutory accounting purposes and also result from differences in actuarial reserving methods.



The assumptions we use to calculate our reserves are intended to represent an estimate of experience for the period that policy benefits are payable.  If actual experience is not less favorable than our reserve assumptions, then reserves should be adequate to provide for future benefits and expenses.  If experience is less favorable than the reserve assumptions, additional reserves may be required.  The key experience assumptions include disability claim incidence rates, disability claim recovery rates, mortality rates, policy persistency, interest rates, and policy benefit offsets, including those for social security and other government-based welfare benefits.  We periodically review our experience and update our policy reserves for new issues and reserves for all claims incurred, as we believe appropriate.










The consolidated statements of income include the annual change in reserves for future policy and contract benefits.  The change reflects a normal accretion for premium payments and interest buildup and decreases for policy terminations such as lapses, deaths, and benefit payments.  If policy reserves using best estimate assumptions as of the date of a test for loss recognition are higher than existing policy reserves net of any deferred acquisition costs, the increase in reserves necessary to recognize the deficiency is also included in the change in reserves for future policy and contract benefits.



For further discussion of reserves, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A, "Critical Accounting Estimates" and the discussion of segment operating results included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 1 and 6 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.



Investments



Investment activities are an integral part of our business, and profitability is significantly affected by investment results.  We segment our invested assets into portfolios that support our various product lines.  Generally, our investment strategy for our portfolios is to match the effective asset cash flows and durations with related expected liability cash flows and durations to consistently meet the liability funding requirements of our businesses.  We seek to earn investment income while assuming credit risk in a prudent and selective manner, subject to constraints of quality, liquidity, diversification, and regulatory considerations.  Our overall investment philosophy is to invest in a portfolio of high quality assets that provide investment returns consistent with that assumed in the pricing of our insurance products.  Assets are invested predominately in fixed maturity securities.  Changes in interest rates may affect the amount and timing of cash flows.



We actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. We may redistribute investments among our different lines of business, when necessary, to adjust the cash flow and/or duration of the asset portfolios to better match the cash flow and duration of the liability portfolios.  Asset and liability portfolio modeling is updated on a quarterly basis and is used as part of the overall interest rate risk management strategy.  Cash flows from the in-force asset and liability portfolios are projected at current interest rate levels and also at levels reflecting an increase and a decrease in interest rates to obtain a range of projected cash flows under the different interest rate scenarios.  These results enable us to assess the impact of projected changes in cash flows and duration resulting from potential changes in interest rates.  Testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes.  We use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments for managing interest rate risk and the risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities.  We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.



Refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A, "Critical Accounting Estimates" and the discussion of investments in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for information on our investments and derivative financial instruments.



Ratings



AM Best, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's), and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) are among the third parties that assign issuer credit ratings to Unum Group and financial strength ratings to our insurance subsidiaries.  Issuer credit ratings reflect an agency's opinion of the overall financial capacity of a company to meet its senior debt obligations.  Financial strength ratings are specific to each individual insurance subsidiary and reflect each rating agency's view of the overall financial strength (capital levels, earnings, growth, investments, business mix, operating performance, and market position) of the insuring entity and its ability to meet its obligations to policyholders.  Both the issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings incorporate quantitative and qualitative analyses by rating agencies and are routinely reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis.



Rating agencies assign an outlook statement of "positive," "negative," or "developing" to indicate an intermediate-term trend in credit fundamentals which could lead to a rating change.  "Positive" means that a rating may be raised, "negative" means that a rating may be lowered, and "developing" means that a rating may be raised or lowered with equal probability.  Alternatively, a rating may have a "stable" outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change.










"Credit watch" or "under review" highlights the potential direction of a short-term or long-term rating.  It focuses on identifiable events and short-term trends that cause a rating to be placed under heightened surveillance by a rating agency.  Events that may trigger this action include mergers, acquisitions, recapitalizations, regulatory actions, criteria changes, or operating developments.  Ratings may be placed on credit watch or under review when an event or a change in an expected trend occurs and additional information is needed to evaluate the current rating level.  This status does not mean that a rating change is inevitable, and ratings may change without first being placed on a watch list.



Our financial strength ratings as of February 2014 for our principal U.S. domiciled insurance company subsidiaries were:



•A (Excellent) by AM Best - 3rd of 16 rankings

•A (Strong) by Fitch - 6th of 19 rankings

•A2 (Good) by Moody's - 6th of 21 rankings

•A (Strong) by S&P - 6th of 21 rankings



Our issuer credit ratings for Unum Group as of February 2014 were:



•bbb (Good) by AM Best - 9th of 22 rankings

•BBB (Good) by Fitch - 9th of 21 rankings

•Baa2 (Adequate) by Moody's - 9th of 21 rankings

•BBB (Adequate) by S&P - 9th of 22 rankings



As of February 2014, all four rating agencies have a "stable" outlook for our Company, and none of the ratings are currently under review or on credit watch.  See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Ratings" contained herein in Item 7.  A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.



Competition



There is significant competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell.  We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of customer service and claims management, integrated product choices, and financial strength.  In the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the United States with a limited number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products.  Our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the United States.  Some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings.  Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete.



In the United Kingdom, we compete for the individual and group products we sell with a number of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers.  These providers have been aggressively trying to maintain market share in a difficult economic environment, characterized by very low interest rates and expense pressures on employers and individuals.



We believe the need for the types of products we offer is significant.  In both the United States and the United Kingdom, individuals and families often live paycheck to paycheck with a considerable chance of being out of work.  Pressure is also mounting on governments as to the sustainability of public assistance.  Based on current penetration levels, we believe there is substantial upside growth potential.



All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market.  There is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us.  The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.



We must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products.  Strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers.  We compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation.  Sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers.



For further discussion, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A.








Regulation



We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive supervision and regulation both in the United States and in the United Kingdom.  The laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change.  New or existing laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations.  As a result of the financial market and economic challenges over the past few years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase.



Insurance Regulation and Oversight





Our U.K. insurance subsidiary, Unum Limited, is subject to dual regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), both of which replaced the Financial Services Authority (FSA) effective April 1, 2013.  The PRA oversees the financial health and stability of financial services firms and is responsible for the prudential regulation and day-to-day supervision of insurance companies.  The FCA seeks to protect consumers and takes over the authority in that area previously exercised by the FSA in overseeing financial services products and practices, including those governing insurance companies in the U.K.



Capital Requirements



Risk‑based capital (RBC) standards for U.S. life insurance companies have been prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC).  The domiciliary states of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the RBC model formula of the NAIC, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers.  The basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer.  The life and health RBC formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks.  The formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized.  The formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally.



The NAIC's Solvency Modernization Initiative (SMI) began in June 2008.  The SMI is a self-examination of the United States' insurance solvency regulation framework and includes a review of international developments regarding insurance supervision, banking supervision, and international accounting standards and their potential use in U.S. insurance regulation.  The SMI is a wide-ranging initiative that, by its nature, will evolve to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments.  Current SMI goals and the principles developed through the SMI's exploration of capital requirements, governance and risk management, group supervision, statutory accounting and financial reporting, and reinsurance will likely result in significant changes to U.S. insurance regulation and solvency standards, including those for our U.S. insurance subsidiaries.  Progress on the various initiatives is expected to continue throughout 2014.














See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 15 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.



Insurance Holding Company Regulation



We and our U.S. insurance subsidiaries (excluding captive insurers) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which they are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), which currently include Maine, Massachusetts, Tennessee, South Carolina, New York, and California.  These laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions.  Transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator.



In addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our Company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries.  See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Available from Subsidiaries" contained herein in Item 7.










There are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries.  The NAIC has adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level.  Although these changes are only beginning to be adopted by individual state regulators, it can be expected that most will ultimately adopt them in some form.  The various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to RBC calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies.  A completed activity within the SMI includes the recent adoption by the NAIC of the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act and the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) Guidance Manual which require insurers to provide a group-level perspective on the risks of the current and future business plans and the sufficiency of capital to support those risks.  We expect to file our ORSA summary report with the applicable insurance regulators in 2015.





These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.



Federal Laws and Regulations



Enacted in 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States.  Dodd-Frank directs various government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years.  Among other provisions, Dodd-Frank creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requiring that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse and subjecting major swap participants to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which will likely have the effect of increasing the costs of hedging generally and the credit risk posed by some counterparties.  We use derivative transactions to help us manage certain risks in our business.  New margin requirements for cleared and uncleared transactions are expected to require the posting of higher margin levels for our derivatives activities and also may narrowly restrict the range of eligible collateral, which may require us to hold more of our assets in cash or cash equivalents that generate lower yields than other investments.



Dodd-Frank also established a Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) with authority to subject systemically important financial companies (including non-bank financial companies such as us) to supervision and stricter prudential regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress testing, and credit exposure, and in certain circumstances limitations on acquisitions or combinations, restrictions on product offerings, and/or requirements to sell assets.  In April 2012, the FSOC adopted final rules for evaluating whether a non-bank financial company should be designated as systemically important.  We have not been designated as a systemically important financial company, and based on the quantitative criteria set forth in the final rules, at this time we believe it is unlikely that we will be subject to such designation.










In addition, Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the Department of the Treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry (other than with respect to health insurance, certain long-term care insurance, and crop insurance), including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the U.S. financial system and recommending insurers (potentially including us) that should be designated for stricter regulation.  In December 2013, the FIO released its report on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States.  The report concludes that modernization and improvement are possible through a combination of steps by states and certain actions by the federal government.  The report makes recommendations for enhanced uniformity and efficiency by states in the areas of insolvency and marketplace regulation and for direct federal involvement in certain areas, such as for the FIO to engage in supervisory colleges and also to study and report on the manner in which personal information is used for insurance pricing and coverage purposes.



We are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading.  Further, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas.



The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies.  The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering.  Anti-money laundering laws outside of the United States contain some similar provisions.  Additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Asset's Controls, as well as the U.K.'s Bribery Act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls.



For further discussion of regulation, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A.



Geographic Areas



Operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our Unum UK segment totaled $705.2 million, $865.5 million, and $877.8 million for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  These amounts were approximately 6.8 percent, 8.3 percent, and 8.5 percent of consolidated operating revenue for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  As of December 31, 2013, total assets and liabilities for our Unum UK segment were $3.7 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, or approximately 6.2 percent and 5.9 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities, respectively.  Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of our Unum UK segment will impact our reported operating results.  See "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" contained herein in Item 7A for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  See "Reporting Segments" contained herein in Item 1; "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7; and Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of Unum UK's operating results.



Employees



At December 31, 2013, we had approximately 9,200 full-time employees.



Available Information



Our internet website address iswww.unum.com.  We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission.










Executive Officers of the Registrant



Our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by Unum Group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.



NameAgePositionThomas R. Watjen59President and Chief Executive Officer and a DirectorListon Bishop III67Executive Vice President and General CounselBreege A. Farrell54Executive Vice President and Chief Investment OfficerRandall C. Horn61Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial LifeChristopher J. Jerome53Executive Vice President, Global ServicesKevin P. McCarthy58Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerJohn F. McGarry56Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Closed Block OperationsRichard P. McKenney45Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerPeter G. O'Donnell47Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum UKMichael Q. Simonds40Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum US



Mr. Watjen became President and Chief Executive Officer in March 2003.  He served as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer from May 2002 until March 2003.  He became Executive Vice President, Finance in June 1999 and assumed the additional Risk Management responsibilities in November 1999.  Mr. Watjen originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1994.



Mr. Bishop was named Executive Vice President and General Counsel in October 2008.  From August 1979 through September 2008, Mr. Bishop practiced corporate and securities law as a member of the law firm of Miller & Martin PLLC, except during the period from January 2005 through July 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.



Ms. Farrell was named Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer in August 2013, after having joined the Company as Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer in April 2011.  Before joining the Company, she held a number of executive-level investment positions within the organization of The Allstate Corporation, a personal lines insurer, including as Senior Managing Director of Allstate Investments, LLC and certain affiliated companies from January 2010 to April 2011, and as Managing Director of these companies from August 2004 to January 2010.



Mr. Horn was named Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial Life in May 2006.  Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial Life from March 2004.  Before joining the Company, he served as Executive Vice President of Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company from 1993 until 2003, having joined that company in 1981.



Mr. Jerome was named Executive Vice President, Global Services in July 2013, after having served as Senior Vice President, Global Services from January 2012.  He previously served as Senior Vice President, Risk Operations from July 2010, as Senior Vice President, Underwriting & Service Operations, Unum US from May 2010, and as Senior Vice President, Group Underwriting Operations from August 2006.  Mr. Jerome originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company in 1983.



Mr. McCarthy was named Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in January 2012. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Unum US from May 2007 through June 2013.  He previously served as Executive Vice President, President, Unum US from January 2007.  Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Risk Operations from January 2006.  He previously served as Executive Vice President, Underwriting from May 2003.  Mr. McCarthy originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company in 1976.










Mr. McGarry was named Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Closed Block Operations in August 2013, after having served as Executive Vice President, Individual Disability and Long-term Care Closed Block Operations from September 2012.  He previously served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum UK from July 2010, and as Senior Vice President, Benefits, Individual Disability, and National Client Group Business, Unum US from January 2010.  Prior to that, he served in various other capacities within Unum US, including as Senior Vice President, Benefits Operations and Risk Management from March 2008 to January 2010, and as Senior Vice President, Benefits Operations from January 2006 to March 2008.  Mr. McGarry originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company in 1986.



Mr. McKenney was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2009, having joined the Company in July 2009.  Before joining the Company, Mr. McKenney served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sun Life Financial Inc., an international financial services company, from February 2007, having joined that company as Executive Vice President in September 2006.  He served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Genworth Financial, Inc., a global financial security company, from May 2004 until August 2006.



Mr. O'Donnell was named President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum UK, in September 2012, after having joined the Company as Unum Limited's Chief Financial Officer in 2010.  Prior to joining Unum Limited, Mr. O'Donnell served as Director of Group Finance at Prudential plc, an international financial services company, from May 2008 to May 2010.  He served as Finance director at Royal & SunAlliance plc, an international financial services company, from May 2005 to May 2008.



Mr. Simonds was named Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum US in July 2013, after having served as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Unum US from June 2012.  He previously served as Senior Vice President, Growth Operations, Unum US from July 2010, and as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Unum US from March 2008.  Mr. Simonds originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company in 1994, left the Company in 2000 to further his education and to serve as a consultant with McKinsey & Company, a global management consulting firm, and rejoined the Company in 2003.










