ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



Unum Group, a Delaware general business corporation, and its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, which collectively with Unum Group we refer to as the Company, operate in the United States, the United Kingdom, and, to a limited extent, in certain other countries around the world.  The principal operating subsidiaries in the United States are Unum Life Insurance Company of America (Unum America), Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company (Provident), The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company (Paul Revere Life), and Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company, and in the United Kingdom, Unum Limited.  We are the largest provider of disability insurance products in the United States and the United Kingdom.  We also provide a complementary portfolio of other insurance products, including employer- and employee-paid group benefits, life insurance, and other related services.



We have three major business segments: Unum US, Unum UK, and Colonial Life.  Our other segments are the Closed Block and the Corporate segments.  These segments are discussed more fully under "Reporting Segments" included herein in this Item 1.



Business Strategies



As one of the leading providers of employee benefits in the U.S. and the U.K., we offer a broad portfolio of products and services to meet the diverse and rapidly changing needs of employers and their employees.  The unfortunate reality is that most lower- and middle-income workers in the U.S. and the U.K. lack financial protection for themselves and their families should something unexpected occur, a need that has been made even more apparent following the recent financial crisis.  Additionally, governments in the U.S. and U.K., and throughout the world, are struggling to address growing deficit problems, limiting their ability to offer some of the financial protections that they have provided in the past.  As a result, we anticipate governments will likely require citizens to take more responsibility for their own financial security.



Specifically, we offer group, individual, and voluntary benefits, either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages, that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers of all sizes by helping them attract and retain a stronger workforce while protecting the incomes and lifestyles of their employees.  We believe employer-sponsored benefits represent the single most effective way to provide workers with access to the information and options they need to protect their lifestyle and provide financial security.  Working people and their families, particularly those at lower and middle incomes, are perhaps the most vulnerable in today's economy yet are often overlooked by many providers of financial services and products.  For many of these people, employer-sponsored benefits are the primary defense against the potentially catastrophic fallout of death, illness, or injury.



We have established a corporate culture consistent with the social values our products provide.  We are committed not only to meeting the needs of our customers who depend on us, but also to operating with integrity and being accountable for our actions.  Our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently as well as to identify and address potential areas of risk in our business.  We have also applied these same values to our social responsibility efforts.  Because we see important links between the obligations we have to all of our stakeholders, we place a strong emphasis on contributing to positive change in our communities.



We are an industry leader, and we believe we are well positioned in our sector with solid long-term growth prospects.  Given the nature of our business, however, we are sensitive to economic and financial market movements, including interest rates, consumer confidence, and employment levels.  Our business outlook, which recognizes both the challenges of the current economic environment as well as the mitigating impact of risk-reducing actions we have taken in recent years, is consistent with our risk appetite.  Although the occurrence of one or more of the risk factors discussed herein may cause our results to differ materially from our outlook, our business plan has been tested against a variety of economic scenarios, and we believe we can continue to meet the challenges presented by the current economic environment.  We remain cautious of the near-term outlook for employment levels and wages, both of which limit opportunities for premium growth, but we believe we are poised to profitably grow as employment trends improve.












During 2012, we intend to remain focused on disciplined top-line growth in select markets and a sustainable capital generation and deployment strategy.  We continue to believe that our strategy of delivering a broad set of financial protection choices to employees while also enabling employers to define their financial contribution in support of those choices should enable us to continue in a leadership position in our markets over the long term.



Reporting Segments



Our reporting segments are comprised of the following: Unum US, Unum UK, Colonial Life, Closed Block, and Corporate.  Measured as a percentage of consolidated premium income for the year ended December 31, 2011, premium income was approximately 57.2 percent for the Unum US segment, 9.1 percent for Unum UK, 15.1 percent for Colonial Life, and 18.6 percent for Closed Block.  In the fourth quarter of 2011, we reclassified our group and individual long-term care products from the Unum US segment to the Closed Block segment.  We also reclassified our other insurance products not actively marketed, including individual life and corporate-owned life insurance, reinsurance pools and management operations, group pension, health insurance, and individual annuities, which were previously reported in the Corporate and Other segment to the Closed Block segment.  Prior period segment results have been restated to reflect these changes in our reporting classifications.



Financial information is provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 12 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.



Unum US Segment



The Unum US segment includes group long-term and short-term disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment products, and supplemental and voluntary lines of business.  The supplemental and voluntary lines of business are comprised of individual disability - recently issued insurance and voluntary benefits products.  These products are issued primarily by Unum America, Provident, and Paul Revere Life.  Paul Revere Life no longer actively markets new business but continues to service its existing business.  Premium income for this segment totaled $4,296.0 million in 2011.  These products are marketed through our field sales personnel who work in conjunction with independent brokers and consultants.  Our market strategy for Unum US is to effectively deliver a broad selection of employee benefit products, with a focus on benefit offerings in the group core market segment, which we define for Unum US as employee groups with fewer than 2,000 lives, and the voluntary benefits market segment.



Group Long-term and Short-term Disability



Group long-term and short-term disability products contributed approximately 47.4 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2011.  We sell group long-term and short-term disability products to employers for the benefit of employees.  Group long-term disability provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury.  We offer services to employers and insureds to encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment.  Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee reaches a certain age, generally between 65 and 70.  The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.



Group short-term disability insurance generally provides coverage from loss of income due to injury or sickness, effective immediately for accidents and after one week for sickness, for up to 26 weeks, limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.



Premiums for group long-term and short-term disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Some cases carry experience rating provisions.  Premiums for experience-rated group long-term and short-term disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given its demographics, industry group, and location, adjusted for the credibility of the specific claim experience of the client.  We offer accounts handled on an administrative services only (ASO) basis, with the responsibility for funding claim payments remaining with the customer.  We also offer fee-based family medical leave products.  Both group long-term and short-term disability are sold primarily on a basis permitting periodic repricing to address the underlying claims experience.












We have defined underwriting practices and procedures.  If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability.  Policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees.  For new group policyholders, the usual rate guarantee is one to three years.  For group policies being renewed, the rate guarantee is generally one year, but may be longer.  The profitability of the policy depends on the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period.  The contracts provide for certain circumstances in which the rate guarantees can be overridden.



Profitability of group long-term and short-term disability insurance is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.  Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience, and many economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for disability insurance.  In general, experience-rated disability coverage for large groups has narrower profit margins and represents less risk to us than business of this type sold to small employers because we bear all of the risk of adverse claims experience in small case fully insured coverages while larger employers often bear a portion of this risk themselves.  We routinely make pricing adjustments, when contractually permitted, which take into account the emerging experience on our group insurance products.



Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment



Group life and accidental death and dismemberment products contributed approximately 28.3 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2011.  Group life and accidental death and dismemberment products are sold to employers as employee benefit products.  Group life consists primarily of renewable term life insurance with the coverages frequently linked to employees' wages and includes a provision for waiver of premium, if disabled.  Accidental death and dismemberment consists primarily of an additional benefit amount payable if death or severe injury is attributable to an accident.



Premiums are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Underwriting practices and rate guarantees are similar to those used for group disability products, and evidence of insurability is required for benefits in excess of a specified limit.



Profitability of group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.



Individual Disability - Recently Issued



Individual disability - recently issued products generated approximately 10.8 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2011.  Individual disability - recently issued generally consists of those individual disability policies issued after the substantial changes in product offerings, pricing, distribution, and underwriting which occurred during the period 1994 through 1998 and were generally implemented to improve the overall risk profile of the product.  Individual disability is offered primarily to multi-life employer groups and may be funded by the employer, but the policy is owned by the employee and is portable should the employee change employers.  Individual disability insurance provides the insured with a portion of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury.  Under an individual disability policy, monthly benefits generally are fixed at the time the policy is written.  The benefits typically range from 30 percent to 75 percent of the insured's monthly earned income.  We provide various options with respect to length of benefit periods and waiting periods before benefit payments begin, which permits tailoring of the policy to a specific policyholder's needs.  We also market individual disability policies which include payments for the transfer of business ownership between partners and payments for business overhead expenses.  Individual disability products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.



Premium rates for individual disability products vary by age, gender, and occupation based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience.  Our underwriters evaluate the medical and financial condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy.  For larger multi-life groups, some underwriting requirements may be waived.  The majority of our individual disability - recently issued policies are written on a noncancelable basis.  Under a noncancelable policy, as long as the insured continues to pay the fixed annual premium for the policy's duration, we cannot cancel the policy or raise the premium.



Profitability of individual disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.












Voluntary Benefits



Voluntary benefits products generated approximately 13.5 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2011.  Voluntary benefits products are sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at the workplace and include individual universal life and interest-sensitive life, individual disability, group and individual critical illness, and individual cancer products.



Premium rates for voluntary benefits products are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables.  Our underwriters evaluate the medical condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy on a simplified basis.  For larger groups with high participation rates, some underwriting requirements may be waived.  Voluntary benefits products other than life insurance are offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval.



Profitability of voluntary benefits products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Unum UK Segment



The Unum UK segment includes insurance for group long-term disability, group life, and supplemental and voluntary lines of business.  The supplemental and voluntary lines of business are comprised of individual disability, critical illness, and voluntary benefits products.  Unum UK's products are issued primarily by Unum Limited and are sold in the United Kingdom through field sales personnel and independent brokers and consultants.  Premium income for this segment totaled $687.6 million in 2011, or £428.7 million in local currency.  Our market strategy for Unum UK is benefit offerings to employers and employees through the workplace with a focus on expanding the number of employers and employees covered.



Group Long-term Disability



Group long-term disability products contributed approximately 61.0 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2011.  Group long-term disability products are sold to employers for the benefit of employees.  Group long-term disability provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury.  Services are offered to employers and insureds to encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment.  Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee reaches a certain age, generally between 60 and 67.  The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.



Premiums for group long-term disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Some cases carry experience rating provisions.  Premiums for experience-rated group long-term disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given its demographics, industry group, and location, adjusted for the credibility of the specific claim experience of the client.



We have defined underwriting practices and procedures.  If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability.  Policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees.  In both cases the usual rate guarantee is two years.  Guarantees of one year may be offered either at the request of the client or as required by us to manage risk. In a very limited number of circumstances guarantees of three years may be offered, but this will be at an additional cost.  The profitability of the policy is dependent upon the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period.  The contracts provide for certain circumstances in which the rate guarantees can be overridden.



Profitability of group long-term disability insurance is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.  Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience.












Group Life



Group life products contributed approximately 29.6 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2011.  Group life products are sold to employers as employee benefit products.  Group life consists of two types of products, a renewable term life insurance product providing a lump sum benefit to the beneficiary on death of an employee and a group dependent life product which provides an annuity to the beneficiary on death of an employee.  Both coverages are frequently linked to employees' wages.  Premiums for group life are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those utilized for group long-term disability products.



Profitability of group life is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.



Individual Disability



Individual disability products generated approximately 5.3 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2011.  Individual disability is offered primarily to individual retail customers.  Individual disability insurance provides the insured with a portion of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury.  Under an individual disability policy, monthly benefits generally are fixed at the time the policy is written.  The benefits typically range from 30 percent to 50 percent of the insured's monthly earned income.  Various options with respect to length of benefit periods and waiting periods before payment begins are available and permit tailoring of the policy to a specific policyholder's needs.  Individual disability products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.



Premium rates for individual disability products vary by age, gender, and occupation based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables.  Our underwriters evaluate the medical and financial condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy.  Approximately one half of our individual disability policies are written on a noncancelable basis.  The remainder is offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies.



Profitability of individual disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Critical Illness



Critical illness products generated approximately 4.1 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2011.  Group critical illness products are sold to groups of employees.  Individual critical illness products are offered to individual retail customers.  Critical illness products provide a lump-sum benefit on the occurrence of a covered critical illness event.



Premiums for group critical illness products are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those utilized for group long-term disability products.  Premium rates for individual critical illness products vary by age and gender based on assumptions concerning morbidity, persistency, administrative expenses, and investment income.  Individual critical illness insurance is offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims experience and published industry tables.  Our underwriters evaluate the medical condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy.



Profitability of these products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment returns, and the level of administrative expenses.



Voluntary Benefits



Unum UK is in the early stages of establishing its voluntary benefits product offering in the UK marketplace.  The product offering includes group disability, group life, and group critical illness products.  These products are sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at the workplace.












Premium rates for voluntary benefits products are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables.  The extent of underwriting for these policies is based on guaranteed issue amounts, size of policy, and participation percentage.  Policies include rate guarantees at inception and at renewal, generally for a period of two years.



Profitability of voluntary benefits products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



Colonial Life Segment



The Colonial Life segment includes insurance for accident, sickness, and disability products, life products, and cancer and critical illness products issued primarily by Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company and marketed to employees at the workplace through an independent contractor agency sales force and brokers.  Premium income for this segment totaled $1,135.3 million in 2011.  Our market strategy for Colonial Life is to effectively deliver a broad set of voluntary products and services with a focus on core commercial and public sector markets.



Accident, Sickness, and Disability



The accident, sickness, and disability product line, which generated approximately 61.2 percent of the Colonial Life segment premium income in 2011, consists of short-term disability plans as well as accident-only plans providing benefits for injuries on a specified loss basis.  It also includes accident and health plans covering hospital admissions, confinement, and surgeries on an indemnity basis and group limited benefit medical plans which provide limited indemnity benefits for basic healthcare expenses.



Premiums for accident, sickness, and disability products are generally based on assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own experience.  Premiums are primarily individual guaranteed renewable wherein we have the ability to change premiums on a state by state basis.  A small percentage of the policies are written on a group basis wherein we retain the right to change premiums at the individual account level.  We have defined underwriting practices and procedures for each of our products.  Most policies are issued on a simplified issue basis, based on answers to simple health and employment questions.  If the amount applied for exceeds certain levels, the applicant may be asked to answer additional health questions or submit to additional medical examinations.



Profitability is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment returns, and the level of administrative expenses.



The accident and health products qualify as fringe benefits that can be purchased with pre-tax employee dollars as part of a flexible benefits program pursuant to Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code.  Flexible benefits programs assist employers in managing benefit and compensation packages and provide policyholders the ability to choose benefits that best meet their needs.  Laws could be changed to limit or eliminate fringe benefits available on a pre-tax basis, eliminating our ability to continue marketing our products this way.  However, we believe our products provide value to our policyholders that will remain even if the tax advantages offered by flexible benefits programs are modified or eliminated.



Life



Group and individual life products contributed approximately 16.8 percent of the Colonial Life segment premium income in 2011 and are primarily comprised of universal life, whole life, level term life, and a small block of group term life policies.



Premium rates vary by age and are based on assumptions concerning mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own experience and published industry tables.  Premiums for the whole life and level term products are guaranteed for the life of the contract.  Premiums for the universal life products are flexible and may vary at the individual policyholder level.  For the group term life product, we retain the right to change premiums at the account level based on the experience of the account.



Profitability is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment returns, and the level of administrative expenses.












Cancer and Critical Illness



Cancer and critical illness policies generated approximately 22.0 percent of the Colonial Life segment premium income in 2011.  Cancer policies provide various benefits for the treatment of cancer including hospitalization, surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy.  Critical illness policies provide a lump-sum benefit on the occurrence of a covered critical illness event.



Premiums are generally based on assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own experience.  Premiums are primarily individual guaranteed renewable wherein we have the ability to change premiums on a state by state basis.



Profitability of these products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment returns, and the level of administrative expenses.



Closed Block Segment



The Closed Block segment consists of individual disability, group and individual long-term care, and other insurance products no longer actively marketed.  Premium income for this segment totaled $1,395.3 million in 2011.



Individual Disability



Individual disability policies generated approximately 56.4 percent of the Closed Block segment premium income in 2011.  These products generally consist of those individual disability policies in-force before the substantial changes in product offerings, pricing, distribution, and underwriting, which generally occurred during the period 1994 through 1998.  A small amount of new business continued to be sold after these changes, but we stopped selling new policies in this closed line of business at the beginning of 2004 other than update features contractually allowable on existing policies.



The majority of the policies represent individual disability insurance which was written on a noncancelable basis.  Profitability is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.



We have reinsurance agreements which effectively provide approximately 51 percent reinsurance coverage for our overall consolidated risk above a specified retention limit, which at December 31, 2011, equaled approximately $7.1 billion.  The maximum risk limit for the reinsurer grows to approximately $2.2 billion over time, after which any further losses will revert to us.



Group and Individual Long-term Care



Long-term care policies generated approximately 43.6 percent of the Closed Block segment premium income in 2011.  We announced in February 2012 that we would discontinue selling group long-term care, which was previously offered to employers for the benefit of employees.  We expect that a small amount of new group business will continue to be sold through features contractually allowable on existing group policies.  Individual long-term care, which we discontinued selling in 2009, was previously marketed on a single-life customer basis.



Long-term care insurance pays a benefit upon the loss of two or more activities of daily living and the insured's requirement of standby assistance or cognitive impairment.  Payment is made on an indemnity basis, regardless of expenses incurred, up to a lifetime maximum.  Benefits begin after a waiting period, generally 90 days or less and are paid for a period of three years, six years, or lifetime.



Premium rates for long-term care vary by age and gender and are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.  We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables.  Underwriting for group long-term care insurance is based primarily on the age and gender of the insured and certain characteristics of the group.  There is an "active at work" requirement for insurability, and for coverage above a stated maximum, we evaluate the medical condition of the prospective individual insureds.  Long-term care insurance is offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval.



Profitability is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.












Other



Other insurance products not actively marketed include individual life and corporate-owned life insurance, reinsurance pools and management operations, group pension, health insurance, and individual annuities.  The majority of these products have been reinsured, with approximately 78 percent of reserves at December 31, 2011 ceded to other insurance companies.  These products contributed less than 0.1 percent of the Closed Block segment premium income in 2011.



Corporate Segment



The Corporate segment includes investment income on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, interest expense on corporate debt other than non-recourse debt, and certain other corporate income and expense not allocated to a line of business.



Reinsurance



In the normal course of business, we assume reinsurance from and cede reinsurance to other insurance companies.  In a reinsurance transaction, a reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurer for part or all of its liability under a policy or policies it has issued for an agreed upon premium.  The primary purpose of ceded reinsurance is to limit losses from large exposures.  However, if the assuming reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations, we remain contingently liable.  We evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers to whom we cede business and monitor concentration of credit risk to minimize our exposure.  We may also require assets to be held in trust, letters of credit, or other acceptable collateral to support reinsurance recoverable balances.



In general, the maximum amount of risk retained by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries and not ceded is $750,000 per covered life per policy under a group or individual life policy and $750,000 per covered life per policy under a group or individual accidental death and dismemberment policy.  For Unum Limited, we generally retain £1.0 million per covered life.  The amount of risk retained on individual disability products varies by policy type and year of issue.  Other than catastrophic reinsurance coverage, we generally do not reinsure group or individual disability policies issued subsequent to 1999.



We have global catastrophic reinsurance coverage which includes five layers of coverage to limit our exposure under life, accidental death and dismemberment, long-term care, and disability policies in regards to a catastrophic event.  We have 50 percent reinsurance coverage in both the first and fifth layers and 80 percent coverage in each of the other three layers for a total of $455.0 million of catastrophic coverage, after a $50.0 million deductible.  Layer one provides $25.0 million of coverage, layers two through four provide $40.0 million, $80.0 million, and $160.0 million of coverage, respectively, and layer five provides $150.0 million of coverage.  Each layer provides coverage for all catastrophic events, including acts of war and any type of terrorism.  In addition to the global catastrophic reinsurance coverage noted above, Unum Limited has additional catastrophic coverage via an arms-length, inter-company reinsurance agreement with Unum America, under similar terms as the global catastrophic treaties.  The coverage is placed at 50 percent reinsurance for a total of £75.0 million of catastrophic coverage, after a £225.0 million deductible.  Events may occur which limit or eliminate the availability of catastrophic reinsurance coverage in future years.



The reinsurance recoverable of$4,854.6 millionat December 31, 2011 relates to 91 companies.  Fourteen major companies account for approximately 92 percent of the reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2011, and all of these companies are rated A or better by A.M. Best Company (AM Best) or are fully securitized by letters of credit or investment-grade fixed maturity securities held in trust.  Of the remaining reinsurance recoverable, approximately seven percent relates to business reinsured either with companies rated A- or better by AM Best, with overseas entities with equivalent ratings or backed by letters of credit or trust agreements, or through reinsurance arrangements wherein we retain the assets in our general account.  Approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable is held by companies either rated below A- by AM Best or not rated.



The collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers.  Although we have controls to minimize our exposure, the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.



For further discussion of our reinsurance activities, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and Note 11 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.












Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits



The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require that they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies.  These reserves are the amounts which, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature.  These laws specify that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates, and methods of valuation required for statutory accounting.



The reserves reported in our financial statements contained herein are calculated in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and differ from those specified by the laws of the various states and reported in the statutory financial statements of our life insurance subsidiaries.  These differences result from the use of mortality and morbidity tables and interest assumptions which we believe are more representative of the expected experience for these policies than those required for statutory accounting purposes and also result from differences in actuarial reserving methods.



The assumptions we use to calculate our reserves are intended to represent an estimate of experience for the period that policy benefits are payable.  If actual experience is not less favorable than our reserve assumptions, then reserves should be adequate to provide for future benefits and expenses.  If experience is less favorable than the reserve assumptions, additional reserves may be required.  The key experience assumptions include disability claim incidence rates, disability claim recovery rates, mortality rates, policy persistency, and interest rates.  We periodically review our experience and update our policy reserves for new issues and reserves for all claims incurred, as we believe appropriate.



The consolidated statements of income include the annual change in reserves for future policy and contract benefits.  The change reflects a normal accretion for premium payments and interest buildup and decreases for policy terminations such as lapses, deaths, and benefit payments.  If policy reserves using best estimate assumptions as of the date of a test for loss recognition are higher than existing policy reserves net of any deferred acquisition costs, the increase in reserves necessary to recognize the deficiency is also included in the change in reserves for future policy and contract benefits.



For further discussion of reserves, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A, "Critical Accounting Estimates" and the discussion of segment operating results included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 5 and 12 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.



Investments



Investment activities are an integral part of our business, and profitability is significantly affected by investment results.  We segment our invested assets into portfolios that support our various product lines.  Generally, our investment strategy for our portfolios is to match the effective asset cash flows and durations with related expected liability cash flows and durations to consistently meet the liability funding requirements of our businesses.  We seek to earn investment income while assuming credit risk in a prudent and selective manner, subject to constraints of quality, liquidity, diversification, and regulatory considerations.  Our overall investment philosophy is to invest in a portfolio of high quality assets that provide investment returns consistent with that assumed in the pricing of our insurance products.  Assets are invested predominately in fixed maturity securities.  Changes in interest rates may affect the amount and timing of cash flows.



We actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. We may redistribute investments between our different lines of business, when necessary, to adjust the cash flow and/or duration of the asset portfolios to better match the cash flow and duration of the liability portfolios.  Asset and liability portfolio modeling is updated on a quarterly basis and is used as part of the overall interest rate risk management strategy.  Cash flows from the in-force asset and liability portfolios are projected at current interest rate levels and also at levels reflecting an increase and a decrease in interest rates to obtain a range of projected cash flows under the different interest rate scenarios.  These results enable us to assess the impact of projected changes in cash flows and duration resulting from potential changes in interest rates.  Testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate scenarios enables us to choose the most appropriate investment strategy as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes.  We use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments for managing interest rate risk and the risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities.  We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.












Refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A, "Critical Accounting Estimates" and the discussion of investments in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 2, 3, and 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for information on our investments and derivative financial instruments.



Ratings



AM Best, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's), and Standard & Poor's Corporation (S&P) are among the third parties that assign issuer credit ratings to Unum Group and financial strength ratings to our insurance subsidiaries. Issuer credit ratings reflect an agency's opinion of the overall financial capacity of a company to meet its senior debt obligations.  Financial strength ratings are specific to each individual insurance subsidiary and reflect each rating agency's view of the overall financial strength (capital levels, earnings, growth, investments, business mix, operating performance, and market position) of the insuring entity and its ability to meet its obligations to policyholders.  Both the issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings incorporate quantitative and qualitative analyses by rating agencies and are routinely reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis.



Rating agencies assign an outlook statement of "positive," "negative," or "developing" to indicate an intermediate-term trend in credit fundamentals which could lead to a rating change.  "Positive" means that a rating may be raised, "negative" means that a rating may be lowered, and "developing" means that a rating may be raised or lowered with equal probability.  Alternatively, a rating may have a "stable" outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change.



"Credit watch" or "under review" highlights the potential direction of a short-term or long-term rating.  It focuses on identifiable events and short-term trends that cause a rating to be placed under heightened surveillance by a rating agency.  Events that may trigger this action include mergers, acquisitions, recapitalizations, or anticipated operating developments.  Ratings may be placed on credit watch or under review when an event or a change in an expected trend occurs and additional information is needed to evaluate the current rating level.  This status does not mean that a rating change is inevitable, and ratings may change without first being placed on a watch list.



Our financial strength ratings as of February 2012 for our principal U.S. domiciled insurance company subsidiaries were:



•A (Excellent) by AM Best - 3rd of 16 rankings

•A (Strong) by Fitch - 6th of 19 rankings

•A3 (Good) by Moody's - 7th of 21 rankings

•A- (Strong) by S&P - 7th of 21 rankings



Our issuer credit ratings for Unum Group as of February 2012 were:



•bbb (Good) by AM Best - 9th of 22 rankings

•BBB (Good) by Fitch - 9th of 21 rankings

•Baa3 (Adequate) by Moody's - 10th of 21 rankings

•BBB- (Adequate) by S&P - 10th of 22 rankings



As of February 2012, Fitch and AM Best have a "stable" outlook for our Company, while Moody's has a "positive" outlook for our Company.  S&P has a "positive" outlook for Unum Group and its domestic subsidiaries, while the outlook for our U.K. subsidiary, Unum Limited, remains "stable."  None of the ratings are currently under review or on credit watch.  See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Ratings" contained herein in Item 7.  A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.



Competition



There is intense competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell.  We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are integrated product choices, price, quality of customer service and claims management, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings.  In the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the United States with a limited number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products.  Our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the United States.  Some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings.  Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete.










In the United Kingdom, we compete for the individual and group products we sell with a number of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers.  These providers have been aggressively trying to maintain market share in a difficult economic environment, characterized by very low interest rates and expense pressures on employers and individuals.  However, current penetration levels indicate that there is still significant upside growth potential in the United Kingdom for the types of products we offer.



All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market.  There is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us.  The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.



We must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products.  Strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers.  We compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation.  Sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers.



For further discussion, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A.



Regulation



General



We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation on both the federal and state level in the U.S. and by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in the U.K.  The laws and regulations with which we must comply are subject to change, and new and existing laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations.  As a result of the financial market and economic challenges over the past few years, regulation and the cost of compliance with regulation has continued to increase in both the U.S. and internationally.



Insurance Regulatory Oversight





Capital Requirements



Risk‑based capital (RBC) standards for U.S. life insurance companies have been prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC).  The domiciliary states of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the RBC model formula of the NAIC, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers.  The basis of the system is a risk-based formula that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer's business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer.  The life and health RBC formula is designed to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults










and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks.  The formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized.  The formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not intended as a means to rank insurers generally.



The NAIC's Solvency Modernization Initiative (SMI) began in June 2008.  The SMI is a self-examination of the United States' insurance solvency regulation framework and includes a review of international developments regarding insurance supervision, banking supervision, and international accounting standards and their potential use in U.S. insurance regulation.  The SMI is a wide-ranging initiative that, by its nature, will evolve to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments.  Current SMI goals and the principles developed through the SMI's exploration of capital requirements, group solvency, reinsurance, and international accounting will likely result in significant changes to U.S. insurance regulation and solvency standards.





Our Bermuda-based insurance subsidiary is subject to regulation by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (BMA).  During 2010,  the BMA initiated a comprehensive review and assessment of its insurance regulatory and solvency framework and published and released a series of consultation papers with the stated purpose of being recognized as equivalent under the Solvency II directive.  The BMA continued to work with European regulators throughout 2011 toward  completion of the review and assessment.  The scope and scale of its proposed change are potentially broad, and requirements are expected to vary by insurer licensing classification.  It is too early to assess the impact, but the insurance industry in Bermuda may ultimately be subject to new rules regarding governance, administrative and accounting processes, and/or long-term capital requirements.



See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" contained herein in Item 7.



Insurance Holding Company Regulation



We are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), which currently include Maine, Massachusetts, Tennessee, South Carolina, New York, Vermont, and California.  These laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including intercompany transactions.  Transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator.



In addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our Company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries.  See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A and "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Available from Subsidiaries" contained herein in Item 7.












There are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect us and our insurance subsidiaries.  The NAIC has recently adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that would provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level.  Although these changes are only beginning to be adopted by individual state regulators, it can be expected that most will ultimately adopt them in some form.  The various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to RBC calculations to account for group-wide risks, and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies.





These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.



Federal Laws and Regulations



In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the United States, was signed into law.  Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years.  Dodd-Frank will subject us to potentially significant additional federal regulation.  Among other provisions impacting or potentially impacting us, Dodd-Frank:



•Creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requiring that certain swaps be executed through a centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse and subjecting major swap participants (potentially including our Company) to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which may have the effect of increasing the costs of hedging generally and the credit risk posed by some counterparties;



•Establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council with authority to subject systemically important financial companies (including non-bank financial companies such as our Company) to supervision and stricter prudential regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, stress testing, and credit exposure, and in certain circumstances limitations on acquisitions or combinations, restrictions on product offerings, and/or requirements to sell assets; and



•Establishes a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the Department of the Treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry (other than with respect to health insurance, certain long-term care insurance, and crop insurance), including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the U.S. financial system and recommending insurers (potentially including our Company) that should be designated for stricter regulation.  The director of the FIO is required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states.  The FIO may also recommend enhanced regulations to state insurance regulatory bodies.












Dodd-Frank imposes various assessments on financial companies, including, as applicable to us, ex-post assessments to provide funds necessary to repay any borrowing and to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under Title II (although the regulatory authority would have to take account of the amounts paid by the Company into state guaranty funds).



We have not been designated as a systemically important financial company, and based on the quantitative criteria set forth in proposed regulation that has been issued, at this time we believe it is unlikely that we will be subject to such designation.



We are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance, and securities trading.  Further, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and rules and regulations adopted under this regulation, have increased the requirements for us and other public companies in these and other areas.



The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies.  The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering.  Anti-money laundering laws outside of the United States contain some similar provisions.  Additionally, other federal laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Asset's Controls, as well as the U.K.'s Bribery Act of 2010, have increased requirements relating to identifying customers, prohibiting transactions with certain organizations or individuals, watching for and reporting suspicious transactions, responding to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, sharing information with other financial institutions, and requiring the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls.



For further discussion of regulation, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A.



Geographic Areas



Segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our U.K. operations totaled $884.6 million, $845.8 million, and $828.2 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  These amounts were approximately8.6 percent,8.3 percent, and 8.2 percent of consolidated segment operating revenue for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  As of December 31, 2011, total assets and liabilities for our U.K. operations were $3.7 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, or approximately 6.1 percent and 5.0 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities, respectively.  Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of our U.K. operations will impact our reported operating results.  See "Risk Factors" contained herein in Item 1A for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 12 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of Unum UK's operating results.



Employees



At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 9,400 full-time employees.



Available Information



Our internet website address iswww.unum.com.  We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



Our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by Unum Group's board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.












NameAgePositionThomas R. Watjen57President and Chief Executive Officer and a DirectorRobert O. Best*62Executive Vice President, Global Business TechnologyListon Bishop III65Executive Vice President and General CounselRandall C. Horn59Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial LifeKevin P. McCarthy56Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum USJohn F. McGarry54Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum UKRichard P. McKenney43Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



*Mr. Best retired from the company effective December 31, 2011.



Mr. Watjen became President and Chief Executive Officer in March 2003.  He served as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer from May 2002 until March 2003.  He became Executive Vice President, Finance in June 1999 and assumed the additional Risk Management responsibilities in November 1999.  Mr. Watjen originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1994.



Mr. Best was named Executive Vice President, Global Business Technology in March 2010.  Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Unum US from January 2007 and Executive Vice President, Service Operations and Chief Information Officer from January 2006 to January 2007.  He served as Executive Vice President, The Client Services Center, and Chief Information Officer from May 2003.  Mr. Best originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in 1994.



Mr. Bishop became Executive Vice President and General Counsel in October 2008.  Prior to this appointment, he officially began serving as Interim General Counsel in April 2008.  From August 1979 through September 2008, Mr. Bishop practiced corporate and securities law with the law firm of Miller & Martin PLLC, except during the period from January 2005 through July 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.



Mr. Horn was named Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial Life in May 2007.  Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer of Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company from March 2004.  Before joining the Company, he served as Executive Vice President of Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company from 1993 until 2003, having joined that company in 1981.



Mr. McCarthy was named Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in January 2012, in addition to maintaining his role as President and Chief Executive Officer of Unum US.  He previously served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum US from May 2007 and Executive Vice President, President, Unum US from January 2007.  Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Risk Operations from January 2006.  He previously served as Executive Vice President, Underwriting from May 2003.  Mr. McCarthy originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company in 1976.



Mr. McGarry was named Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum UK in July 2010.  He previously served as Senior Vice President, Benefits, Individual Disability, and National Client Group Business, for Unum US from January 2010.  Prior to that, he served in various other capacities within Unum US, including Senior Vice President, Benefits Operations and Risk Management from March 2008 to January 2010, Senior Vice President, Benefits Operations from January 2006 to March 2008, and Senior Vice President, Underwriting Operations from August 2005 to January 2006.  Mr. McGarry originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company in 1986.



Mr. McKenney was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2009, having joined the Company in July 2009.  Before joining the Company, Mr. McKenney served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sun Life Financial Inc., an international financial services company, since February 2007, having joined that company as Executive Vice President in September 2006.  He served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Genworth Financial, Inc., a global financial security company, from May 2004 until August 2006.














