ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

Unum Group, a Delaware general business corporation, and its insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries, which
collectively with Unum Group we refer to as the Company, operate in the United States, the United Kingdom, and, to a limited extent, in certain other countries around the world. The principal operating subsidiaries in the United States are Unum Life
Insurance Company of America (Unum America), Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company (Provident), The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company (Paul Revere Life), and Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company, and in the United Kingdom,
Unum Limited. We are the largest provider of disability insurance products in the United States and the United Kingdom. We also provide a complementary portfolio of other insurance products, including employer- and employee-paid group benefits, life
insurance, long-term care insurance, and other related services.

We have three major business segments: Unum US, Unum UK, and Colonial Life.
Our other segments are the Individual Disability – Closed Block segment and the Corporate and Other segment. These segments are discussed more fully under “Reporting Segments” included herein in Item 1.

Business Strategies

As one of the leading
providers of employee benefits in the U.S. and the U.K., we offer a broad portfolio of products and services to meet the diverse and rapidly changing needs of employers and their employees. We offer group, individual, and voluntary benefits either
as stand alone products or combined with other coverages to provide comprehensive benefits solutions for employers of all sizes. These benefits help businesses attract and retain a stronger workforce, while protecting the incomes and lifestyles of
employees and their families. We believe employer-sponsored benefits represent the single most effective way to provide workers with access to the information and options they need to protect their lifestyle and provide financial security. Working
people and their families, particularly those at middle and lower incomes, are perhaps the most vulnerable in today’s economy and are often overlooked by many providers of financial services and products. Yet the need for employees to have
access to low-cost benefits in the workplace has never been greater. For many people, employer-sponsored benefits are the primary defense against the potentially catastrophic fallout of death, illness, or injury.

We have established a corporate culture consistent with the social values our products provide. With a workforce of engaged employees dedicated to meeting
the needs of our customers every day, we are committed to operating with integrity and being accountable for our actions. We believe our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management
strategy ensure that we operate efficiently and identify and address potential areas of risk from all corners of our business. We have also applied these same values to our social responsibility efforts. Because we see important links between the
obligations we have to all of our stakeholders, we place a strong emphasis on contributing to positive change in our communities.

We are an
industry leader, and we believe that we are well-positioned in our sector. Due to the nature of our business, however, we are sensitive to economic and financial market movements, including consumer confidence, employment levels, and interest rates.
Our business outlook, which recognizes both the challenges of the current economic environment as well as the mitigating impact of risk-reducing actions we have taken in recent years, is consistent with our risk appetite. Although the occurrence of
one or more of the risk factors discussed herein may cause our results to differ from our outlook, our business plan has been tested against a variety of economic scenarios, and we believe that we can meet the challenges presented by the current
economic environment.

In spite of the uncertain economic environment, we continue to make steady and disciplined progress, executing on our
business plans and strengthening our financial position. We remain cautious of the near-term outlook for employment levels and wages, both of which limit opportunities for premium growth, but we believe we are poised to profitably grow as employment
trends improve.

During 2010, our focus will remain on disciplined top-line growth and capital management. Objectives for the year include:



•Consistently execute our operating plans with an emphasis on disciplined, profitable growth.

•Further enhance financial flexibility through solid operating and investment performance, as well as a disciplined approach to capital management.

•Continue to invest in our business, including our products and services, as well as in the professional development of our employees.

•Remain positioned to capitalize on long-term growth opportunities in the marketplace.







Reporting Segments

Our reporting segments are comprised of the following: Unum US, Unum UK, Colonial Life, Individual Disability – Closed Block, and Corporate and Other. Measured as a percentage of consolidated premium
income for the year ended December 31, 2009, premium income was approximately 65.2 percent for the Unum US segment, 9.2 percent for Unum UK, 13.6 percent for Colonial Life, and 12.0 percent for the Individual Disability – Closed Block and
Corporate and Other segments combined.

Financial information is provided in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7 and Note 13 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8.

Unum US Segment

The Unum US segment includes group long-term and short-term disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment products, and supplemental and voluntary lines of business, comprised of individual disability –
recently issued, group and individual long-term care, and brokerage voluntary benefits products, issued primarily by Unum America, Provident, and Paul Revere Life. Paul Revere Life no longer actively markets new business but continues to service its
existing business. Premium income for this segment totaled $4,873.1 million in 2009. These products are marketed through our field sales personnel who work in conjunction with independent brokers and consultants. We discontinued selling individual
long-term care insurance effective in 2009.

Group Long-term and Short-term Disability

Group long-term and short-term disability products contributed approximately 44.3 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2009. We sell group
long-term and short-term disability products to employers for the benefit of employees. Group long-term disability provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury. We
offer services to employers and insureds to encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment. Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee
reaches a certain age, generally between 65 and 70. The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.

Group
short-term disability insurance generally provides coverage from loss of income due to injury or sickness, effective immediately for accidents and after one week for sickness, for up to 26 weeks, limited to specified maximums as a percentage of
income.

Premiums for group long-term and short-term disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus
provisions for administrative expenses and profit. Some cases carry experience rating provisions. Premiums for experience rated group long-term and short-term disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given their
industry group, adjusted for the credibility of the specific claim experience of the client. We also offer accounts handled on an administrative services only (ASO) basis, with the responsibility for funding claim payments remaining with the
customer. Both group long-term and short-term disability are sold primarily on a basis permitting periodic repricing to address the underlying claims experience.

We have defined underwriting practices and procedures. If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability.
Policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees. For new group policyholders, the usual rate guarantee is one to three years. For group policies being renewed, the rate guarantee is generally one year, but may be
longer. The profitability of the policy depends on the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period. The contracts provide for certain circumstances in which the rate guarantees can be overridden.

Profitability of group long-term and short-term disability insurance is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of
administrative expenses. Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience. Also important is the general state of the economy; for example, during a recession the incidence of claims tends to increase under this type of insurance. In
general, experience rated disability coverage for large groups has narrower profit margins and represents less risk to us than business of this type sold to small employers







because we bear all of the risk of adverse claims experience in small case fully insured coverages while larger employers often bear much of this risk themselves. We routinely make pricing
adjustments, when contractually permitted, which take into account the emerging experience on our group insurance products.

Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment

Group life and accidental death and dismemberment products contributed
approximately 23.9 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2009. Group life and accidental death and dismemberment products are sold to employers as employee benefit products. Group life consists primarily of renewable term life insurance
with the coverages frequently linked to employees’ wages. Accidental death and dismemberment consists primarily of travel accident and other specialty risk products. Premiums are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks
plus provisions for administrative expenses and profit. Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those used for group disability products.

Profitability of group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.

Individual Disability – Recently Issued

Individual disability – recently issued products generated approximately 9.5 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2009. Individual disability is offered primarily to multi-life employer
groups, but also on a single-life customer basis. Individual disability insurance provides the insured with a portion of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury. Under an individual disability policy, monthly benefits generally are
fixed at the time the policy is written. The benefits typically range from 30 percent to 75 percent of the insured’s monthly earned income. We provide various options with respect to length of benefit periods and waiting periods before benefit
payments begin, which permits tailoring of the policy to a specific policyholder’s needs. We also market individual disability policies which include payments for the transfer of business ownership between partners and payments for business
overhead expenses. Individual disability products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.

Premium rates for individual disability
products vary by age, gender, and occupation based on assumptions concerning morbidity, persistency, administrative expenses, and investment income. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims experience and published industry tables. Our
underwriters evaluate the medical and financial condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy. For larger multi-life groups, some underwriting requirements may be waived.

Profitability of individual disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative
expenses.

Group and Individual Long-term Care

Long-term care products generated approximately 12.2 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2009. Group long-term care insurance is offered to employers for the benefit of employees. We
previously sold individual long-term care on a single-life customer basis, but we discontinued selling individual long-term care during 2009. Long-term care insurance pays a benefit upon the loss of two or more activities of daily living and the
insured’s requirement of standby assistance or cognitive impairment. Payment is made on an indemnity basis, regardless of expenses incurred, up to a lifetime maximum. A reimbursement model payment option is also available for individual
long-term care policies. Benefits begin after a waiting period, generally 90 days or less.

Premium rates for long-term care vary by age and
gender and are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, and investment income. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims experience and published industry tables. Our underwriters evaluate
the medical condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy. For larger groups, some underwriting requirements may be waived. Long-term care insurance is offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price
in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval.







Profitability is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of
administrative expenses.

Voluntary Benefits

Voluntary benefits products generated approximately 10.1 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2009. Voluntary benefits products include individual universal life and interest-sensitive life,
individual disability, group and individual critical illness, and individual cancer products. These products are sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at the workplace.

Premium rates for voluntary benefits products are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, and investment income. We develop our assumptions based on our
own claims experience and published industry tables. Our underwriters evaluate the medical condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy. For larger groups with high participation rates, some underwriting requirements may
be waived. Voluntary benefits products other than life insurance are offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval.

Profitability of voluntary benefits products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the
level of administrative expenses.

Unum UK Segment

The Unum UK segment includes group long-term disability insurance, group life products, and individual disability products issued by Unum Limited and sold
primarily in the United Kingdom through field sales personnel and independent brokers and consultants. Premium income for this segment totaled $686.1 million in 2009, or £438.7 million in local currency.

Group Long-term Disability

Group long-term disability products contributed approximately 73.4 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2009. Group long-term disability products are sold to employers for the benefit of employees. Group long-term disability
provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury. Services are offered to employers and insureds to encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment.
Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee reaches a certain age, generally between 60 and 65. The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of
income.

Premiums for group long-term disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for
administrative expenses and profit. Some cases carry experience rating provisions. Premiums for experience rated group long-term disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given its industry group, adjusted for the
credibility of the specific claim experience of the client.

We have defined underwriting practices and procedures. If the coverage amount
exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability. Policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees. In both cases the usual rate
guarantee is two years. Guarantees of one year may be offered either at the request of the client or as required by us to manage risk. In a very limited number of circumstances guarantees of three years may be offered, but
this will be at an additional cost. The profitability of the policy is dependent upon the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period. The contracts provide for certain circumstances in which the rate guarantees can be overridden.

Profitability of group long-term disability insurance is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of
administrative expenses. Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience.







Group Life

Group life products contributed approximately 21.5 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2009. Group life products are sold to employers as employee benefit products. Group life consists
primarily of renewable term life insurance with the coverages frequently linked to employees’ wages. Premiums for group life are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses and
profit. Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those utilized for group long-term disability products.

Profitability of group life
is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.

Individual
Disability

Individual disability products generated approximately 5.1 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2009. Individual
disability is offered primarily to individual retail customers. Individual disability insurance provides the insured with a portion of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury. Under an individual disability policy, monthly benefits
generally are fixed at the time the policy is written. The benefits typically range from 30 percent to 50 percent of the insured’s monthly earned income. Various options with respect to length of benefit periods and waiting periods before
payment begins are available and permit tailoring of the policy to a specific policyholder’s needs. Individual disability products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.

Premium rates for individual disability products vary by age, gender, and occupation based on assumptions concerning morbidity, persistency, administrative
expenses, and investment income. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims experience and published industry tables. Our underwriters evaluate the medical and financial condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a
policy.

Profitability of individual disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of
administrative expenses.

Colonial Life Segment

The Colonial Life segment includes insurance for accident, sickness, and disability products, life products, and cancer and critical illness products issued primarily by Colonial Life & Accident
Insurance Company and marketed to employees at the workplace through an agency sales force and brokers. Premium income for this segment totaled $1,015.1 million in 2009.

Accident, Sickness, and Disability

The accident, sickness, and disability product line,
which generated approximately 61.7 percent of the Colonial Life premium income in 2009, consists of short-term disability plans as well as accident-only plans providing benefits for injuries on a specified loss basis. It also includes accident and
health plans covering hospital admissions, confinement, and surgeries on an indemnity basis and group limited benefit medical plans which provide limited indemnity benefits for basic healthcare expenses.

Premiums for accident, sickness, and disability products are generally based on our experience for morbidity, mortality, persistency, and expenses. Premiums
are primarily individual guaranteed renewable wherein we have the ability to change premiums on a state by state basis. A small percentage of the policies are written on a group basis wherein we retain the right to change premiums at the individual
account level. We have defined underwriting practices and procedures for each of our products. Most policies are issued on a simplified issue basis, based on answers to simple health and employment questions. If the amount applied for exceeds
certain levels, the applicant may be asked to answer additional health questions or submit to additional medical examinations.

Profitability
is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment returns, and the level of administrative expenses.







The accident and health products qualify as fringe benefits that can be purchased with pre-tax employee
dollars as part of a flexible benefits program pursuant to Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code. Flexible benefits programs assist employers in managing benefit and compensation packages and provide policyholders the ability to choose
benefits that best meet their needs. Congress could change the laws to limit or eliminate fringe benefits available on a pre-tax basis, eliminating our ability to continue marketing our products this way. However, we believe our products provide
value to our policyholders which will remain even if the tax advantages offered by flexible benefits programs are modified or eliminated.

Life

Group and individual life products contributed approximately 16.3 percent of the
2009 premium income for Colonial Life and are primarily comprised of universal life, whole life, level term life, and a small block of group term life policies. Premiums for the whole life and level term products are guaranteed for the life of the
contract. Premiums for the universal life products are flexible and may vary at the individual policyholder level. For the group term life product, we retain the right to change premiums at the account level based on the experience of the account.

Profitability is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment returns, and the level of
administrative expenses.

Cancer and Critical Illness

Cancer and critical illness policies generated approximately 22.0 percent of the 2009 premium income for the Colonial Life segment. Cancer policies provide various benefits for the treatment of cancer
including hospitalization, surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. Critical illness policies provide a lump-sum benefit on the occurrence of a covered critical illness event.

Premiums are generally based on our experience for morbidity, mortality, persistency, and expenses. Premiums are primarily individual guaranteed renewable wherein we have the ability to change premiums on
a state by state basis.

Profitability of these products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience,
investment returns, and the level of administrative expenses.

Individual Disability – Closed Block Segment

Generally, the insurance policies included in the Individual Disability – Closed Block segment are individual disability
insurance policies that were designed to be distributed to individuals in a non-workplace setting and that were written or assumed prior to the restructuring of our individual disability business. This restructuring principally occurred during the
period from 1994 through 1998 and included changes in product offerings, pricing, distribution, and underwriting. During this period we gradually changed our distribution focus for individual disability insurance to workplace distribution as opposed
to individual setting distribution, resulting in many of these changes. A minimal amount of new business continued to be sold subsequent to these changes, but we stopped selling new policies in this segment at the beginning of 2004 other than update
features contractually allowable on existing policies. Premium income for this segment totaled $898.5 million in 2009.

The majority of the
policies included in this segment represent individual disability insurance which was written on a noncancelable basis and issued or assumed by Unum America, Provident, and Paul Revere Life. Under a noncancelable policy, as long as the insured
continues to pay the fixed annual premium for the policy’s duration, we cannot cancel the policy or raise the premium.

Profitability is
affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

We have reinsurance agreements
which effectively provide approximately 60 percent reinsurance coverage for our overall consolidated risk above a specified retention limit, which at December 31, 2009, equaled approximately $7.6 billion. The maximum risk limit for the
reinsurer grows to approximately $2.2 billion over time, after which any further losses, if any, will revert to us.







Corporate and Other Segment

The Corporate and Other segment includes investment income on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, interest expense on
corporate debt other than non-recourse debt, and certain other corporate income and expense not allocated to a line of business. The Corporate and Other segment also includes results from certain Unum US insurance products not actively marketed,
including individual life and corporate-owned life insurance, reinsurance pools and management operations, group pension, health insurance, and individual annuities.

Premium income for the insurance products in this segment totaled $2.7 million in 2009. It is expected that revenue and income from these insurance products will continue to decline over time as these
business lines wind down.

Discontinued Operations

During 2007, we completed the sale of our wholly-owned subsidiary, GENEX Services, Inc. (GENEX), a leading workers’ compensation and medical cost containment services provider. GENEX’s specialty
role in case management and medical cost containment related to the workers’ compensation market was no longer consistent with our overall strategic direction.

See “Selected Financial Data” contained herein in Item 6 and Note 2 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8 for further information on
our discontinued operations.

Reinsurance

In the normal course of business, we assume reinsurance from and cede reinsurance to other insurance companies. In a reinsurance transaction a reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurer for part or all
of its liability under a policy or policies it has issued for an agreed upon premium. The primary purpose of ceded reinsurance is to limit losses from large exposures. However, if the assuming reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations, we remain
contingently liable. We evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers to whom we cede business and monitor concentration of credit risk to minimize our exposure. We may also require assets to be held in trust, letters of credit, or other acceptable
collateral to support reinsurance recoverable balances.

In general, the maximum amount of risk retained by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries
and not ceded is $750,000 per covered life per policy under a group or individual life policy or a group or individual accidental death and dismemberment policy. For Unum Limited, we generally retain £1.0 million per covered life. The
amount of risk retained on individual disability products varies by policy type and year of issue. Other than catastrophic reinsurance coverage, we generally do not reinsure group or individual disability policies issued subsequent to 1999.

We have catastrophic reinsurance coverage which includes five layers of coverage to limit our exposure under life, accidental death and
dismemberment, long-term care, and disability policies. We have 50 percent reinsurance coverage in each of the first two layers and 80 percent coverage in the other three layers for a total of $240.0 million of catastrophic
reinsurance coverage, after a $20.0 million deductible. The first $30.0 million layer includes terrorism coverage other than that resulting from biological, chemical, and nuclear terrorism, whereas the second, third, and fourth layers each
provide $50.0 million of coverage and the fifth layer $150.0 million of coverage for all catastrophic events, including acts of war and any type of terrorism. In addition to the global catastrophic reinsurance coverage noted above,
Unum Limited has three layers of coverage, with each layer providing £50.0 million of coverage, to limit exposure under group life and group dependent policies. The coverage is placed at approximately 91 percent in each of the three
layers for a total of £136.0 million of catastrophic reinsurance coverage, after a £150.0 million deductible. All three layers include coverage for all catastrophic events, including acts of war and any type of
terrorism. Events may occur which limit or eliminate the availability of catastrophic reinsurance coverage in future years.

The
reinsurance recoverable of $4,996.9 million at December 31, 2009 relates to 89 companies. Fourteen major companies account for approximately 92 percent of the reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2009, and all of these companies are
rated A or better by A.M. Best Company (AM Best) or are fully securitized by letters of credit







or investment-grade fixed maturity securities held in trust. Of the remaining reinsurance recoverable, approximately seven percent relates to business reinsured either with companies rated A- or
better by AM Best, with overseas entities with equivalent ratings or backed by letters of credit or trust agreements, or through reinsurance arrangements wherein we retain the assets in our general account. Approximately one percent of the
reinsurance recoverable is held by companies either rated below A- by AM Best or not rated.

The collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable
is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. Although we have controls to minimize our exposure, the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance
contract could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

For further discussion of our reinsurance activities, refer to
“Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A and Note 12 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8.

Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits

The applicable insurance laws under which
insurance companies operate require that they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies. These reserves are the amounts which, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon
compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature. These laws specify that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain specified
mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates, and methods of valuation.

The reserves reported in our financial statements contained herein
are calculated in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and differ from those specified by the laws of the various states and reported in the statutory financial statements of our life insurance subsidiaries. These
differences result from the use of mortality and morbidity tables and interest assumptions which we believe are more representative of the expected experience for these policies than those required for statutory accounting purposes and also result
from differences in actuarial reserving methods.

The assumptions we use to calculate our reserves are intended to represent an estimate of
experience for the period that policy benefits are payable. If actual experience is not less favorable than our reserve assumptions, then reserves should be adequate to provide for future benefits and expenses. If experience is less favorable than
the reserve assumptions, additional reserves may be required. The key experience assumptions include disability claim incidence rates, disability claim recovery rates, mortality rates, policy persistency, and interest rates. We periodically review
our experience and update our policy reserves for new issues and reserves for all claims incurred, as we believe appropriate.

The
consolidated statements of income include the annual change in reserves for future policy and contract benefits. The change reflects a normal accretion for premium payments and interest buildup and decreases for policy terminations such as lapses,
deaths, and benefit payments.

For further discussion of reserves, refer to “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A,
“Critical Accounting Estimates” and the discussion of segment operating results included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7, and Note 6
of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8.

Investments

Investment activities are an integral part of our business, and profitability is significantly affected by investment results. We segment our invested
assets into portfolios that support our various product lines. Generally, our investment strategy for our portfolios is to match the effective asset cash flows and durations with related expected liability cash flows and durations to consistently
meet the liability funding requirements of our businesses. We seek to earn investment income while assuming credit risk in a prudent and selective manner, subject to constraints of quality, liquidity, diversification, and regulatory considerations.
Our overall investment philosophy is to invest in a portfolio of high quality assets that provide investment returns consistent with that assumed in the pricing of our







insurance products. Assets are invested predominately in fixed maturity securities, and the portfolio is matched with liabilities so as to eliminate as much as possible our exposure to changes in
the overall level of interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the amount and timing of cash flows.

We actively manage our asset
and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to minimize interest rate risk. We may redistribute investments between our different lines of business, when necessary, to adjust the cash flow and/or duration of the asset
portfolios to better match the cash flow and duration of the liability portfolios. Asset and liability portfolio modeling is updated on a quarterly basis and is used as part of the overall interest rate risk management strategy. Cash flows from the
in-force asset and liability portfolios are projected at current interest rate levels and also at levels reflecting an increase and a decrease in interest rates to obtain a range of projected cash flows under the different interest rate
scenarios. These results enable us to assess the impact of projected changes in cash flows and duration resulting from potential changes in interest rates. Testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate scenarios enables
us to choose the most appropriate investment strategy as well as to minimize the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. This analysis is a precursor to our activities in derivative financial instruments, which are used to hedge interest rate risk and to
manage duration match. We do not use derivatives for speculative purposes.

Refer to “Risk Factors” contained herein in
Item 1A, “Critical Accounting Estimates” and the discussion of investments in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 3, 4, and
5 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8 for information on our investments and derivative financial instruments.

Ratings

AM Best, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s),
and Standard & Poor’s Corporation (S&P) are among the third parties that assign issuer credit ratings to Unum Group and financial strength ratings to our insurance subsidiaries. Issuer credit ratings reflect an agency’s
opinion of the overall financial capacity of a company to meet its senior debt obligations. Financial strength ratings are specific to each individual insurance subsidiary and reflect each rating agency’s view of the overall financial strength
(capital levels, earnings, growth, investments, business mix, operating performance, and market position) of that insuring entity and its ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. Both the issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings
incorporate quantitative and qualitative analyses by rating agencies and are routinely reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis.

Rating
agencies assign an outlook statement of “positive,” “negative,” or “developing” to indicate an intermediate-term trend in credit fundamentals which could lead to a rating change. “Positive” means that a rating
may be raised, “negative” means that a rating may be lowered, and “developing” means that a rating may be raised or lowered with equal probability. Alternatively, a rating may have a “stable” outlook to indicate that
the rating is not expected to change.

“Credit watch” or “under review” highlights the potential direction of a short-term
or long-term rating. It focuses on identifiable events and short-term trends that cause a rating to be placed under heightened surveillance by a rating agency. Events that may trigger this action include mergers, acquisitions, recapitalizations, or
anticipated operating developments. Ratings may be placed on credit watch or under review when an event or a change in an expected trend occurs and additional information is needed to evaluate the current rating level. This status does not mean that
a rating change is inevitable, and ratings may change without first being placed on a watch list.

Our financial strength ratings as of
February 2010 for our principal U.S. domiciled insurance company subsidiaries were:



•A- (Excellent) by AM Best – 4th of 15 rankings

•A (Strong) by Fitch – 6th of 23 rankings

•Baa1 (Adequate) by Moody’s – 8th of 21 rankings

•A- (Strong) by S&P – 7th of 21 rankings







Our issuer credit ratings for Unum Group as of February 2010 were:



•bbb- (Good) by AM Best – 10th of 22 rankings

•BBB (Good) by Fitch – 8th of 23 rankings

•Ba1 (Speculative) by Moody’s – 11th of 21 rankings

•BBB- (Good) by S&P – 10th of 22 rankings

As of February 2010, our ratings from each of the four rating agencies have a “stable” outlook. None of the ratings are currently under review or on credit watch. See further discussion in
“Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Ratings” contained herein in Item 7. A rating is not a recommendation
to buy, sell, or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

Competition

There is intense competition among insurance companies for the types of
products we sell. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are integrated product choices, price, quality of customer service and claims management, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. In the individual and
group disability markets, we compete in the United States with a limited number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products. Our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and long-term
care as well as the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the United States. Some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings.
Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete.

In the United Kingdom, we compete for
individual and group products with a number of large internationally recognized providers. The life insurance market continues to go through a restructuring phase which has led to opportunities for both the strong
specialist supplier and also new organizations that have recently been established to handle the run-off of closed businesses. Current penetration levels indicate that there is still significant upside growth potential in the United Kingdom for
the types of products we offer.

All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of
the products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market. There is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with
us. The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.

We must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products. Strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers. We compete with other insurers for sales agents
and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation. Sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers.

For further discussion, refer to “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A.

Regulation

General

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and oversight by insurance departments in jurisdictions in
which they do business and by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) on a national basis, primarily for the protection of policyholders. Unum Limited is subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in the U.K. The state insurance
departments in the United States and the FSA in the U.K. have broad administrative powers with respect to all aspects of the insurance business and, in particular, monitor the manner in which an insurance company offers, sells, and administers its
products. This monitoring may include reviewing sales practices, including the content and use of advertising materials and the licensing and appointing of agents and brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices. The DOL
enforces a comprehensive







federal statute which regulates claims paying fiduciary responsibilities and reporting and disclosure requirements for most employee benefit plans. Our domestic insurance subsidiaries must meet
the standards and tests for investments imposed by state insurance laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. Domestic insurance subsidiaries operate under insurance laws which require they establish and carry, as
liabilities, statutory reserves to meet policyholder obligations. These reserves are verified periodically by various regulators. Our domestic insurance subsidiaries are examined periodically by examiners from their states of domicile and by other
states in which they are licensed to conduct business. The domestic examinations have traditionally emphasized financial matters from the perspective of protection of policyholders, but they can and have covered other subjects that an examining
state may be interested in reviewing, such as market conduct issues. Other states more typically perform market conduct examinations that include a review of a company’s sales practices, including advertising and licensing of agents and
brokers, as well as underwriting, claims, and customer service practices to determine compliance with state laws.

Examinations and Investigations

Claim-Related

During 2004 and 2005, certain of our insurance subsidiaries entered into settlement agreements with various regulators related to disability claims handling
practices. The agreements provide for changes in certain of our claims handling procedures and a claim reassessment process available to certain claimants whose claims were denied or closed during specified periods. During 2007, we completed the
claim reassessment process required by the 2004 and 2005 regulatory settlement agreements. The lead regulators conducted a final examination and presented their findings to Unum Group’s board of directors and management in April 2008. The
report of the multistate market conduct examination and the report of the California Department of Insurance market conduct examination provided that we satisfactorily complied with each of the agreements’ mandates and that no fines would be
assessed. We continue to work closely with our regulators and also continue to work toward resolution of other outstanding legal and regulatory issues.

Broker Compensation, Quoting Process, and Other Matters

Beginning in 2004, several of our
insurance subsidiaries’ insurance regulators requested information relating to the subsidiaries’ policies and practices on one or more aspects of broker compensation, quoting insurance business, and related matters. Additionally, we
have responded to investigations about certain of these same matters by state attorneys general and the DOL. Following highly publicized litigation involving the alleged practices of a major insurance broker, the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has undertaken to provide a uniform Compensation Disclosure Amendment to the Producer Licensing Model Act that can be adopted by states in an effort to provide uniform guidance to insurers, brokers, and customers
relating to disclosure of broker compensation. We expect there to be continued uncertainty surrounding this matter until clearer regulatory guidelines are established.

In June 2004, we received a subpoena from the Office of the New York Attorney General (NYAG) requesting documents and information relating to compensation arrangements between insurance brokers or
intermediaries and our companies. In November 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with the NYAG in the form of an assurance of discontinuance that provided for a national restitution fund of $15.5 million. Our restitution obligations under
this agreement were completed in 2009.

In November 2009, we were contacted by Florida state insurance regulators to discuss a resolution of
their investigation of our compliance with state and federal laws with respect to producer compensation, solicitation activities, policies sold to state or municipal entities, and information regarding compensation arrangements with
brokers. This investigation had been commenced in 2005, and, until this most recent contact, we had received no communications from the regulators regarding this matter since December 2007.







Capital Requirements

Risk-based capital (RBC) standards for U.S. life insurance companies have been prescribed by the NAIC. The domiciliary states of our U.S. insurance
subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the RBC model formula of the NAIC, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. The basis of the system is a risk-based formula
that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer’s business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. The life and health RBC formula is designed
to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow
due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. The formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. The formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not
intended as a means to rank insurers generally.

Unum Limited is subject to regulation, including capital adequacy requirements and minimum
solvency margins, by the FSA in the U.K. Current solvency standards require an insurance company to hold capital equal to the greater of (i) a formulaic calculation of capital related to liabilities or (ii) a risk-based assessment of
capital which is company specific reflecting the insurance company’s individual risk profile. In 2012, Unum Limited will adopt new capital requirements and risk management standards, Solvency II, resulting from a fundamental review of the
capital adequacy standards for the European insurance industry. Solvency II will replace the current capital requirements for Unum Limited. Solvency II requirements are still being developed and have not yet been adopted, but the current proposals
contain new requirements on capital adequacy and risk management for insurers, including (i) requirements to demonstrate adequate financial resources, including quantitative requirements, technical provisions, and calculation of Solvency II
capital requirements through either an approved full or partial internal model or the European standard formula approach (ii) requirements to demonstrate an adequate system of governance, including effective risk management and prospective risk
identification, and (iii) disclosure and regulatory reporting requirements.

See further discussion in “Risk Factors” contained
herein in Item 1A and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” contained herein in Item 7.

Insurance
Holding Company Regulation

The insurance holding company laws and regulations of the states of Maine, Massachusetts, Tennessee, South
Carolina, New York, Vermont, and California require the registration of and periodic reporting of financial and other information about operations, including inter-company transactions within the system, by insurance companies domiciled within their
jurisdiction which control or are controlled by other corporations or persons so as to constitute an insurance holding company system.







conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Unum Group may require prior notification in those states that have
adopted pre-notification laws.

These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control
of Unum Group, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of the stockholders of Unum Group might consider to be desirable.

In addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective stockholders, including Unum Group and certain of its
intermediate holding company subsidiaries and/or finance subsidiaries. See further discussion in “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A and “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Available from Subsidiaries”
contained herein in Item 7.

Unum Group may also from time to time be subject to regulation under applicable regulations and reporting
requirements in the foreign jurisdictions in which it or its affiliates do business or have done business.

Federal Laws
and Regulations

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (Patriot Act), enacted in response to the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001,
contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to
promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the United States contain some similar
provisions. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share
information with other financial institutions, require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls.

For further discussion of regulation, refer to “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A.

Geographic Areas

Segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our U.K. operations totaled $828.2 million, $1,086.1
million, and $1,171.8 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. These amounts were approximately 8.2 percent, 10.4 percent, and 11.1 percent of total segment operating revenue for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Total assets and total
liabilities, as of December 31, 2009, were $3.6 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, for our U.K. operations. Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of our U.K. operations will impact our reported operating results.
See “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A for further discussion of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
contained herein in Item 7 and Note 13 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of Unum UK’s operating results.

Employees

At December 31, 2009, we
had approximately 9,700 full-time employees.

Available Information

Our internet website address iswww.unum.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form
8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission.







Executive Officers of the Registrant

Our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by Unum Group’s board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen
and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.



NameAgePositionThomas R. Watjen55President and Chief Executive Officer and a DirectorRobert O. Best60Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Unum USListon Bishop III63Executive Vice President and General CounselRandall C. Horn57Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial LifeKevin P. McCarthy54Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum USRichard P. McKenney41Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerSusan L. Ring49Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum UK

Mr. Watjen became President and Chief Executive Officer in March 2003. He served as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer from May 2002 until March 2003. He became Executive Vice President,
Finance in June 1999 and assumed the additional Risk Management responsibilities in November 1999. Mr. Watjen originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1994.

Mr. Best became Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Unum US in January 2007. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President,
Service Operations and Chief Information Officer from January 2006. Prior to that time, he served as Executive Vice President, The Client Services Center, and Chief Information Officer from May 2003. He served as Senior Vice President, Customer
Loyalty Services, and Chief Information Officer from March 2000 until May 2003. Mr. Best originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in 1994.

Mr. Bishop became Executive Vice President and General Counsel in October 2008. Prior to this appointment, he officially began serving as Interim
General Counsel in April 2008. From August 1979 through September 2008, Mr. Bishop practiced corporate and securities law with the law firm of Miller & Martin PLLC, except during the period from January 2005 through July 2007 when he
was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.

Mr. Horn was named Executive Vice President,
President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial Life in May 2007. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer of Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company from March 2004. Before joining
the Company, he served as Executive Vice President of Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company from September 1981 until September 2003.

Mr. McCarthy was named Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum US in May 2007. He previously served as Executive Vice President, President, Unum US from January 2007. Prior to that, he served as Executive
Vice President, Risk Operations from January 2006. He previously served as Executive Vice President, Underwriting from May 2003. He served as Senior Vice President, Underwriting from November 2001 until May 2003 and as Senior Vice President,
Marketing, Product Development, and International from December 1999 until November 2001. Mr. McCarthy originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company in 1976.

Mr. McKenney was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2009, having joined the Company in July 2009. Before joining the Company, Mr. McKenney served as Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sun Life Financial Inc., an international financial services company, since February 2007, having joined that company as Executive Vice President in September 2006. He served as Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of Genworth Financial, Inc., a global financial security company, from May 2004 until August 2006.







Ms. Ring was named Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum UK in May
2007. She previously served as Executive Vice President, Chairman and Managing Director, Unum Limited from May 2006. She served as Chairman and Managing Director of Unum Limited from December 2002 until November 2006. She served as Operations
Director from 1999 until 2002 and prior to that time was Director of Risk Management. Ms. Ring joined Unum Limited as Director of Customer Services in 1995.

