ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

Unum Group, a Delaware general business corporation, and its insurance and
non-insurance subsidiaries, which collectively with Unum Group we refer to as the Company, operate in the United States, the United Kingdom, and, to a limited extent, in certain other countries around the world. The principal operating subsidiaries
in the United States are Unum Life Insurance Company of America (Unum America), Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company (Provident), The Paul Revere Life Insurance Company (Paul Revere Life), and Colonial Life & Accident Insurance
Company, and in the United Kingdom, Unum Limited. We are the largest provider of disability insurance products in the United States and the United Kingdom. We also provide a complementary portfolio of other insurance products, including employer-
and employee-paid group benefits, life insurance, long-term care insurance, and other related services.

We have three major business
segments: Unum US, Unum UK, and Colonial Life. Our other segments are the Individual Disability – Closed Block segment and the Corporate and Other segment. These segments are discussed more fully under “Reporting Segments” included
herein in Item 1.

Business Strategies

As one of the leading providers of employee benefits in the U.S. and the U.K., we offer a broad portfolio of products and services to meet the diverse and rapidly changing needs of employers and their
employees. Specifically, we offer group, individual, and voluntary benefits — either as stand-alone products or combined with other coverages — that create comprehensive benefits solutions for employers of all sizes by helping them attract
and retain a stronger workforce while protecting the incomes and lifestyles of their employees. We believe employer-sponsored benefits represent the single most effective way to provide workers with access to the information and options they need to
protect their lifestyle and provide financial security. Working people and their families, particularly those at middle and lower incomes, are perhaps the most vulnerable in today’s economy yet are often overlooked by many providers of
financial services and products. For many of these people, employer-sponsored benefits are the primary defense against the potentially catastrophic fallout of death, illness, or injury.

We have established a corporate culture consistent with the social values our products provide. We are committed to not only meeting the needs of our customers who depend on us, but also to operating with
integrity and being accountable for our actions. Our sound and consistent business practices, strong internal compliance program, and comprehensive risk management strategy enable us to operate efficiently as well as to identify and address
potential areas of risk from all corners of our business. We have also applied these same values to our social responsibility efforts. Because we see important links between the obligations we have to all of our stakeholders, we place a strong
emphasis on contributing to positive change in our communities.

We are an industry leader, and we believe we are well-positioned in our
sector with solid long-term growth prospects. Given the nature of our business, however, we are sensitive to economic and financial market movements, including consumer confidence, employment levels, and interest rates. Our business outlook, which
recognizes both the challenges of the current economic environment as well as the mitigating impact of risk-reducing actions we have taken in recent years, is consistent with our risk appetite. Although the occurrence of one or more of the risk
factors discussed herein may cause our results to differ materially from our outlook, our business plan has been tested against a variety of economic scenarios, and we believe we can continue to meet the challenges presented by the current economic
environment. We remain cautious of the near-term outlook for employment levels and wages, both of which limit opportunities for premium growth, but we believe we are poised to profitably grow as employment trends improve.







Index to Financial Statements

During 2011, our focus will remain on disciplined top-line growth and capital management. Objectives for the
year include:



•Continue to consistently execute against our operating plans, which emphasize disciplined, profitable growth;

•Further enhance our financial flexibility through solid operating and investment performance and a sustainable capital deployment strategy;

•Leverage our capabilities, products, relationships, and reputation to deliver on our commitments as well as our bottom-line targets;

•Continue to invest in our businesses and leverage global capabilities to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities.

Reporting Segments

Our reporting segments are comprised of the following: Unum US, Unum UK, Colonial Life, Individual Disability – Closed Block, and Corporate and Other. Measured as a percentage of consolidated premium
income for the year ended December 31, 2010, premium income was approximately 65.3 percent for the Unum US segment, 8.8 percent for Unum UK, 14.5 percent for Colonial Life, and 11.4 percent for the Individual Disability – Closed Block and
Corporate and Other segments combined.

Financial information is provided in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7 and Note 12 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8.

Unum US Segment

The Unum US segment includes group long-term and short-term disability insurance, group life and accidental death and dismemberment products, and
supplemental and voluntary lines of business. The supplemental and voluntary lines of business are comprised of recently issued disability insurance, group and individual long-term care insurance, and voluntary benefits products. These products are
issued primarily by Unum America, Provident, and Paul Revere Life. Paul Revere Life no longer actively markets new business but continues to service its existing business. Premium income for this segment totaled $4,854.6 million in 2010. These
products are marketed through our field sales personnel who work in conjunction with independent brokers and consultants. We discontinued selling individual long-term care insurance in 2009.

Group Long-term and Short-term Disability

Group long-term and short-term disability products contributed approximately 42.7 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2010. We sell group long-term and short-term disability products to
employers for the benefit of employees. Group long-term disability provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury. We offer services to employers and insureds to
encourage and facilitate rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment. Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee reaches a certain age, generally between 65 and
70. The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.

Group short-term disability insurance generally provides
coverage from loss of income due to injury or sickness, effective immediately for accidents and after one week for sickness, for up to 26 weeks, limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.

Premiums for group long-term and short-term disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for
administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Some cases carry experience rating provisions. Premiums for experience-rated group long-term and short-term disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given its
demographics, industry group, and location, adjusted for the credibility of the specific claim experience of the client. We also offer accounts handled on an administrative services only (ASO) basis, with the responsibility for funding claim
payments remaining with the customer. Both group long-term and short-term disability are sold primarily on a basis permitting periodic repricing to address the underlying claims experience.







Index to Financial Statements

We have defined underwriting practices and procedures. If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age
and amount limits, we may require a prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability. Policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees. For new group policyholders, the usual rate guarantee is one to three
years. For group policies being renewed, the rate guarantee is generally one year, but may be longer. The profitability of the policy depends on the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period. The contracts provide for certain
circumstances in which the rate guarantees can be overridden.

Profitability of group long-term and short-term disability insurance is
affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses. Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience, and many economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence for
disability insurance. In general, experience-rated disability coverage for large groups has narrower profit margins and represents less risk to us than business of this type sold to small employers because we bear all of the risk of adverse claims
experience in small case fully insured coverages while larger employers often bear much of this risk themselves. We routinely make pricing adjustments, when contractually permitted, which take into account the emerging experience on our group
insurance products.

Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment

Group life and accidental death and dismemberment products contributed approximately 24.7 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2010. Group
life and accidental death and dismemberment products are sold to employers as employee benefit products. Group life consists primarily of renewable term life insurance with the coverages frequently linked to employees’ wages and includes a
provision for waiver of premium, if disabled. Accidental death and dismemberment consists primarily of an additional benefit amount payable if death or severe injury is attributable to an accident.

Premiums are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit.
Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those used for group disability products, and evidence of insurability is required for benefits in excess of a specified limit.

Profitability of group life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.

Individual Disability – Recently Issued

Individual disability – recently issued products generated approximately 9.4 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2010. Individual disability – recently issued generally consists of
those individual disability policies issued after the substantial changes in product offerings, pricing, distribution, and underwriting which occurred during the period 1994 through 1998 and were generally implemented to improve the overall risk
profile of the product. Individual disability is offered primarily to multi-life employer groups, but the policy is owned by the employee and is portable should the employee change employers. Individual disability insurance provides the insured with
a portion of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury. Under an individual disability policy, monthly benefits generally are fixed at the time the policy is written. The benefits typically range from 30 percent to 75 percent of the
insured’s monthly earned income. We provide various options with respect to length of benefit periods and waiting periods before benefit payments begin, which permits tailoring of the policy to a specific policyholder’s needs. We also
market individual disability policies which include payments for the transfer of business ownership between partners and payments for business overhead expenses. Individual disability products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.

Premium rates for individual disability products vary by age, gender, and occupation based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality,
persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience. Our underwriters evaluate the medical and financial condition of prospective policyholders prior to
the issuance of a policy. For larger multi-life groups, some underwriting requirements may be waived. The majority of our individual disability – recently issued policies are written on a noncancelable basis. Under a noncancelable policy, as
long as the insured continues to pay the fixed annual premium for the policy’s duration, we cannot cancel the policy or raise the premium.







Index to Financial Statements

Profitability of individual disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims
experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Group and Individual Long-term Care

Long-term care products generated approximately 12.3 percent of the Unum US segment premium income in 2010. Group long-term care insurance is offered to
employers for the benefit of employees. Individual long-term care, which we discontinued selling in 2009, was previously marketed on a single-life customer basis. Long-term care insurance pays a benefit upon the loss of two or more activities of
daily living and the insured’s requirement of standby assistance or cognitive impairment. Payment is made on an indemnity basis, regardless of expenses incurred, up to a lifetime maximum. Benefits begin after a waiting period, generally 90 days
or less.

Premium rates for long-term care vary by age and gender and are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency,
administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables. Underwriting for group long-term care insurance is based primarily on the age and
gender of the insured and certain characteristics of the group. There is an “active at work” requirement for insurability, and for coverage above a stated maximum, we evaluate the medical condition of the prospective individual insureds.
Long-term care insurance is offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval.

Profitability is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.

Voluntary Benefits

Voluntary benefits products generated approximately 10.9 percent of
the Unum US segment premium income in 2010. Voluntary benefits products are sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at the workplace and include individual universal life and interest-sensitive life, individual disability, group and
individual critical illness, and individual cancer products.

Premium rates for voluntary benefits products are based on assumptions
concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables. Our underwriters evaluate the medical
condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy on a simplified basis. For larger groups with high participation rates, some underwriting requirements may be waived. Voluntary benefits products other than life insurance are
offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies, subject to regulatory approval.

Profitability of
voluntary benefits products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Unum UK Segment

The Unum UK segment includes insurance for group long-term
disability, group life, and supplemental and voluntary lines of business. The supplemental and voluntary lines of business are comprised of individual disability, group and individual critical illness, and, more recently, voluntary benefits
products. These products are issued by Unum Limited and are sold primarily in the United Kingdom through field sales personnel and independent brokers and consultants. Premium income for this segment totaled $650.6 million in 2010, or
£420.6 million in local currency.

Group Long-term Disability

Group long-term disability products contributed approximately 64.7 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2010. Group long-term disability
products are sold to employers for the benefit of employees. Group long-term disability provides employees with insurance coverage for loss of income in the event of extended work absences due to sickness or injury. Services are offered to employers
and insureds to encourage and facilitate







Index to Financial Statements

rehabilitation, retraining, and re-employment. Most policies begin providing benefits following 90 or 180 day waiting periods and continue providing benefits until the employee reaches a certain
age, generally between 60 and 65. The benefits are limited to specified maximums as a percentage of income.

Premiums for group long-term
disability are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Some cases carry experience rating provisions. Premiums for experience-rated group long-term
disability business are based on the expected experience of the client given its demographics, industry group, and location, adjusted for the credibility of the specific claim experience of the client.

We have defined underwriting practices and procedures. If the coverage amount exceeds certain prescribed age and amount limits, we may require a
prospective insured to submit evidence of insurability. Policies are typically issued, both at inception and renewal, with rate guarantees. In both cases the usual rate guarantee is two years. Guarantees of one year may be
offered either at the request of the client or as required by us to manage risk.

In a very limited number of circumstances
guarantees of three years may be offered, but this will be at an additional cost. The profitability of the policy is dependent upon the adequacy of the rate during the rate guarantee period. The contracts provide for certain circumstances in
which the rate guarantees can be overridden.

Profitability of group long-term disability insurance is affected by claims experience,
investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses. Morbidity is an important factor in disability claims experience.

Group Life

Group life products contributed approximately 26.4 percent of the Unum UK
segment premium income in 2010. Group life products are sold to employers as employee benefit products. Group life consists of two types of products, a renewable term life insurance product providing a lump sum benefit to the beneficiary on death of
an employee and a group dependent life product which provides an annuity to the beneficiary on death of an employee. Both coverages are frequently linked to employees’ wages. Premiums for group life are generally based on expected claims of a
pool of similar risks plus provisions for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those utilized for group long-term disability products.

Profitability of group life is affected by claims experience, investment returns, persistency, and the level of administrative expenses.

Individual Disability

Individual disability products generated approximately 5.2 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2010. Individual disability is offered
primarily to individual retail customers. Individual disability insurance provides the insured with a portion of earned income lost as a result of sickness or injury. Under an individual disability policy, monthly benefits generally are fixed at the
time the policy is written. The benefits typically range from 30 percent to 50 percent of the insured’s monthly earned income. Various options with respect to length of benefit periods and waiting periods before payment begins are available and
permit tailoring of the policy to a specific policyholder’s needs. Individual disability products do not provide for the accumulation of cash values.

Premium rates for individual disability products vary by age, gender, and occupation based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and
profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables. Our underwriters evaluate the medical and financial condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy.
Approximately one half of our individual disability policies are written on a noncancelable basis. The remainder is offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies.

Profitability of individual disability insurance is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative
expenses.







Index to Financial Statements

Critical Illness

Critical illness products generated approximately 3.7 percent of the Unum UK segment premium income in 2010. Group critical illness products, previously reported with group long-term disability, are sold
to groups of employees. Individual critical illness products, previously reported with individual disability, are offered to individual retail customers. Critical illness products provide a lump-sum benefit on the occurrence of a covered critical
illness event.

Premiums for group critical illness products are generally based on expected claims of a pool of similar risks plus provisions
for administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. Underwriting and rate guarantees are similar to those utilized for group long-term disability products. Premium rates for individual critical illness products vary by age and gender based
on assumptions concerning morbidity, persistency, administrative expenses, and investment income. Individual critical illness insurance is offered on a guaranteed renewable basis which allows us to re-price in-force policies. We develop our
assumptions based on our own claims experience and published industry tables. Our underwriters evaluate the medical condition of prospective policyholders prior to the issuance of a policy.

Profitability of these products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment returns, and the level of administrative expenses.

Voluntary Benefits

Unum UK launched its initial voluntary benefits product offering in the U.K. marketplace during the fourth quarter of 2010. The product offering includes
group disability, group life, and group critical illness products. These products are sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at the workplace.

Premium rates for voluntary benefits products are based on assumptions concerning morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions
based on our own claims and persistency experience and published industry tables. The extent of underwriting for these policies is based on guaranteed issue amounts, size of policy, and participation percentage. Policies include rate guarantees at
inception and at renewal, generally for a period of two years.

Profitability of voluntary benefits products is affected by the level of
employee participation, persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

Colonial Life Segment

The Colonial Life segment includes insurance for accident, sickness, and disability products, life products, and cancer and critical illness products issued primarily by Colonial Life & Accident
Insurance Company and marketed to employees at the workplace through an agency sales force and brokers. Premium income for this segment totaled $1,075.7 million in 2010.

Accident, Sickness, and Disability

The accident, sickness, and disability product line,
which generated approximately 61.5 percent of the Colonial Life segment premium income in 2010, consists of short-term disability plans as well as accident-only plans providing benefits for injuries on a specified loss basis. It also includes
accident and health plans covering hospital admissions, confinement, and surgeries on an indemnity basis and group limited benefit medical plans which provide limited indemnity benefits for basic healthcare expenses.

Premiums for accident, sickness, and disability products are generally based on assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative
expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and persistency experience. Premiums are primarily individual guaranteed renewable wherein we have the ability to change premiums on a state by state basis.
A small percentage of the policies are written on a group basis wherein we retain the right to change premiums at the individual account level. We have defined underwriting practices and procedures for each of our products. Most policies are issued
on a simplified issue basis, based on answers to simple health and employment questions. If the amount applied for exceeds certain levels, the applicant may be asked to answer additional health questions or submit to additional medical examinations.







Index to Financial Statements

Profitability is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment
returns, and the level of administrative expenses.

The accident and health products qualify as fringe benefits that can be purchased with
pre-tax employee dollars as part of a flexible benefits program pursuant to Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code. Flexible benefits programs assist employers in managing benefit and compensation packages and provide policyholders the
ability to choose benefits that best meet their needs. Laws could be changed to limit or eliminate fringe benefits available on a pre-tax basis, eliminating our ability to continue marketing our products this way. However, we believe our products
provide value to our policyholders that will remain even if the tax advantages offered by flexible benefits programs are modified or eliminated.

Life

Group and individual life products contributed approximately 16.4 percent of the
Colonial Life segment premium income in 2010 and are primarily comprised of universal life, whole life, level term life, and a small block of group term life policies.

Premium rates vary by age and gender and are based on assumptions concerning mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own
claims and persistency experience and published industry tables. Premiums for the whole life and level term products are guaranteed for the life of the contract. Premiums for the universal life products are flexible and may vary at the individual
policyholder level. For the group term life product, we retain the right to change premiums at the account level based on the experience of the account.

Profitability is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment returns, and the level of administrative expenses.

Cancer and Critical Illness

Cancer and critical illness policies generated approximately 22.1 percent of the Colonial Life segment premium income in 2010. Cancer policies provide various benefits for the treatment of cancer
including hospitalization, surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. Critical illness policies provide a lump-sum benefit on the occurrence of a covered critical illness event.

Premiums are generally based on assumptions for morbidity, mortality, persistency, administrative expenses, investment income, and profit. We develop our assumptions based on our own claims and
persistency experience. Premiums are primarily individual guaranteed renewable wherein we have the ability to change premiums on a state by state basis.

Profitability of these products is affected by the level of employee participation, persistency, claims experience, investment returns, and the level of administrative expenses.

Individual Disability – Closed Block Segment

The Individual Disability – Closed Block segment generally consists of those individual disability policies in-force before the substantial changes in product offerings, pricing, distribution, and
underwriting, which generally occurred during the period 1994 through 1998. A small amount of new business continued to be sold after these changes, but we stopped selling new policies in this segment at the beginning of 2004 other than update
features contractually allowable on existing policies. Premium income for this segment totaled $847.0 million in 2010.

The majority of the
policies included in this segment represent individual disability insurance which was written on a noncancelable basis. Profitability is affected by persistency, investment returns, claims experience, and the level of administrative expenses.

We have reinsurance agreements in place providing for reimbursement of a proportion of losses in excess of an attachment point and for which
such losses are capped by a maximum loss limit.







Index to Financial Statements

Corporate and Other Segment

The Corporate and Other segment includes investment income on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, interest expense on
corporate debt other than non-recourse debt, and certain other corporate income and expense not allocated to a line of business. Corporate and Other also includes results from certain Unum US insurance products not actively marketed, including
individual life and corporate-owned life insurance, reinsurance pools and management operations, group pension, health insurance, and individual annuities.

Premium income for the insurance products in this segment totaled $3.5 million in 2010. We expect operating revenue and income from these insurance products to decline over time as these business lines
wind down.

Reinsurance

In
the normal course of business, we assume reinsurance from and cede reinsurance to other insurance companies. In a reinsurance transaction, a reinsurer agrees to indemnify another insurer for part or all of its liability under a policy or policies it
has issued for an agreed upon premium. The primary purpose of ceded reinsurance is to limit losses from large exposures. However, if the assuming reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations, we remain contingently liable. We evaluate the financial
condition of reinsurers to whom we cede business and monitor concentration of credit risk to minimize our exposure. We may also require assets to be held in trust, letters of credit, or other acceptable collateral to support reinsurance recoverable
balances.

In general, the maximum amount of risk retained by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries and not ceded is $750,000 per covered life per
policy under a group or individual life policy and $750,000 per covered life per policy under a group or individual accidental death and dismemberment policy. For Unum Limited, we generally retain £1.0 million per covered life. The amount
of risk retained on individual disability products varies by policy type and year of issue. Other than catastrophic reinsurance coverage, we generally do not reinsure group or individual disability policies issued subsequent to 1999.

We have global catastrophic reinsurance coverage which includes four layers of coverage to limit our exposure under life, accidental death and
dismemberment, long-term care, and disability policies in regards to a catastrophic event. We have 50 percent reinsurance coverage in the first layer and 80 percent coverage in the other three layers for a total of $305.0 million of
catastrophic reinsurance coverage, after a $50.0 million deductible. Each of the first two layers provides $50.0 million of coverage, the third layer provides $100.0 million of coverage, and the fourth layer provides $200.0 million of coverage.
Each layer provides coverage for all catastrophic events, including acts of war and any type of terrorism. In addition to the global catastrophic reinsurance coverage noted above, Unum Limited has an additional catastrophic treaty integrated with
the global treaty to limit the exposure under group life and group dependent policies as a result of a catastrophic event. The coverage is placed at 100 percent for a total of £150.0 million of catastrophic reinsurance coverage,
after a £200.0 million deductible. The coverage is for all catastrophic events, including acts of war and any type of terrorism. Events may occur which limit or eliminate the availability of catastrophic reinsurance coverage in
future years.

The reinsurance recoverable of $4,827.9 million at December 31, 2010 relates to 93 companies. Fourteen major companies
account for approximately 91 percent of the reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2010, and all of these companies are rated A or better by A.M. Best Company (AM Best) or are fully securitized by letters of credit or investment-grade fixed
maturity securities held in trust. Of the remaining reinsurance recoverable, approximately eight percent relates to business reinsured either with companies rated A- or better by AM Best, with overseas entities with equivalent ratings or backed by
letters of credit or trust agreements, or through reinsurance arrangements wherein we retain the assets in our general account. Approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable is held by companies either rated below A- by AM Best or not
rated.

The collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers. Although we
have controls to minimize our exposure, the insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.







Index to Financial Statements

For further discussion of our reinsurance activities, refer to “Risk Factors” contained herein in
Item 1A and Note 11 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in Item 8.

Reserves for
Policy and Contract Benefits

The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require that they report, as
liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies. These reserves are the amounts which, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are
calculated to be sufficient to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature. These laws specify that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates,
and methods of valuation.

The reserves reported in our financial statements contained herein are calculated in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and differ from those specified by the laws of the various states and reported in the statutory financial statements of our life insurance subsidiaries. These differences result from the use of mortality and
morbidity tables and interest assumptions which we believe are more representative of the expected experience for these policies than those required for statutory accounting purposes and also result from differences in actuarial reserving methods.

The assumptions we use to calculate our reserves are intended to represent an estimate of experience for the period that policy benefits are
payable. If actual experience is not less favorable than our reserve assumptions, then reserves should be adequate to provide for future benefits and expenses. If experience is less favorable than the reserve assumptions, additional reserves may be
required. The key experience assumptions include disability claim incidence rates, disability claim recovery rates, mortality rates, policy persistency, and interest rates. We periodically review our experience and update our policy reserves for new
issues and reserves for all claims incurred, as we believe appropriate.

The consolidated statements of income include the annual change in
reserves for future policy and contract benefits. The change reflects a normal accretion for premium payments and interest buildup and decreases for policy terminations such as lapses, deaths, and benefit payments.

For further discussion of reserves, refer to “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A, “Critical Accounting Estimates” and the
discussion of segment operating results included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7, and Note 5 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” contained herein in Item 8.

Investments

Investment activities are an integral part of our business, and profitability is significantly affected by investment results. We segment our invested assets into portfolios that support our various
product lines. Generally, our investment strategy for our portfolios is to match the effective asset cash flows and durations with related expected liability cash flows and durations to consistently meet the liability funding requirements of our
businesses. We seek to earn investment income while assuming credit risk in a prudent and selective manner, subject to constraints of quality, liquidity, diversification, and regulatory considerations. Our overall investment philosophy is to invest
in a portfolio of high quality assets that provide investment returns consistent with that assumed in the pricing of our insurance products. Assets are invested predominately in fixed maturity securities. Changes in interest rates may affect the
amount and timing of cash flows.

We actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to
limit interest rate risk. We may redistribute investments between our different lines of business, when necessary, to adjust the cash flow and/or duration of the asset portfolios to better match the cash flow and duration of the liability
portfolios. Asset and liability portfolio modeling is updated on a quarterly basis and is used as part of the overall interest rate risk management strategy. Cash flows from the in-force asset and liability portfolios are projected at current
interest rate levels and also at levels reflecting an increase and a decrease in interest rates to obtain a range of projected cash flows under the different interest rate scenarios. These results enable us to assess the impact of







Index to Financial Statements

projected changes in cash flows and duration resulting from potential changes in interest rates. Testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate scenarios enables us to
choose the most appropriate investment strategy as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes. We use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments for managing interest rate risk and the
risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.

Refer to “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A, “Critical Accounting Estimates” and the discussion of investments in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 2, 3, and 4 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” contained herein in
Item 8 for information on our investments and derivative financial instruments.

Ratings

AM Best, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s), and Standard & Poor’s Corporation (S&P) are among the
third parties that assign issuer credit ratings to Unum Group and financial strength ratings to our insurance subsidiaries. Issuer credit ratings reflect an agency’s opinion of the overall financial capacity of a company to meet its senior debt
obligations. Financial strength ratings are specific to each individual insurance subsidiary and reflect each rating agency’s view of the overall financial strength (capital levels, earnings, growth, investments, business mix, operating
performance, and market position) of the insuring entity and its ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. Both the issuer credit ratings and financial strength ratings incorporate quantitative and qualitative analyses by rating agencies and
are routinely reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis.

Rating agencies assign an outlook statement of “positive,”
“negative,” or “developing” to indicate an intermediate-term trend in credit fundamentals which could lead to a rating change. “Positive” means that a rating may be raised, “negative” means that a rating may
be lowered, and “developing” means that a rating may be raised or lowered with equal probability. Alternatively, a rating may have a “stable” outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change.

“Credit watch” or “under review” highlights the potential direction of a short-term or long-term rating. It focuses on identifiable
events and short-term trends that cause a rating to be placed under heightened surveillance by a rating agency. Events that may trigger this action include mergers, acquisitions, recapitalizations, or anticipated operating developments. Ratings may
be placed on credit watch or under review when an event or a change in an expected trend occurs and additional information is needed to evaluate the current rating level. This status does not mean that a rating change is inevitable, and ratings may
change without first being placed on a watch list.

Our financial strength ratings as of February 2011 for our principal U.S. domiciled
insurance company subsidiaries were:



•A (Excellent) by AM Best – 3rd of 15 rankings

•A (Strong) by Fitch – 6th of 23 rankings

•A3 (Good) by Moody’s – 7th of 21 rankings

•A- (Strong) by S&P – 7th of 21 rankings

Our issuer credit ratings for Unum Group as of February 2011 were:



•bbb (Good) by AM Best – 9th of 22 rankings

•BBB (Good) by Fitch – 9th of 21 rankings

•Baa3 (Moderate) by Moody’s – 10th of 21 rankings

•BBB- (Good) by S&P – 10th of 22 rankings

As of February 2011, all four rating agencies have a “stable” outlook for our Company. None of the ratings are currently under review or on credit watch. See further discussion in “Risk
Factors” contained herein in Item 1A and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Ratings” contained herein in Item 7. A rating is not a recommendation to buy,
sell, or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.







Index to Financial Statements

Competition

There is intense competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are integrated product choices, price,
quality of customer service and claims management, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings. In the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the United States with a limited number of major companies and regionally with other
companies offering specialty products. Our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and long-term care as well as the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance
companies in the United States. Some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete.

In the United Kingdom, we compete for individual and group products with a number of large internationally recognized
providers. The life insurance market continues to go through a restructuring phase which has led to opportunities for both the strong specialist supplier and also new organizations that have recently been established to handle the
run-off of closed businesses. Current penetration levels indicate that there is still significant upside growth potential in the United Kingdom for the types of products we offer.

All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market.
There is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and
other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.

We must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively
market our products. Strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers. We compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and
compensation. Sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers.

For further discussion, refer to “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A.

Regulation

General







Index to Financial Statements

Capital Requirements

Risk-based capital (RBC) standards for U.S. life insurance companies have been prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC). The domiciliary states of our U.S. insurance
subsidiaries have all adopted a version of the RBC model formula of the NAIC, which prescribes a system for assessing the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus for all life and health insurers. The basis of the system is a risk-based formula
that applies prescribed factors to the various risk elements in a life and health insurer’s business to report a minimum capital requirement proportional to the amount of risk assumed by the insurer. The life and health RBC formula is designed
to measure annually (i) the risk of loss from asset defaults and asset value fluctuations, (ii) the risk of loss from adverse mortality and morbidity experience, (iii) the risk of loss from mismatching of asset and liability cash flow
due to changing interest rates, and (iv) business risks. The formula is used as an early warning tool to identify companies that are potentially inadequately capitalized. The formula is intended to be used as a regulatory tool only and is not
intended as a means to rank insurers generally.

The NAIC’s Solvency Modernization Initiative (SMI) began in June 2008. The SMI is a
self-examination of the United States’ insurance solvency regulation framework and includes a review of international developments regarding insurance supervision, banking supervision, and international accounting standards and their potential
use in U.S. insurance regulation. The SMI is a wide-ranging initiative that, by its nature, will evolve to respond to national and international insurance regulatory and solvency developments. Current SMI goals and the principles developed through
the SMI’s exploration of capital requirements, group solvency, reinsurance, and international accounting will likely result in significant changes to U.S. insurance regulation and solvency standards.

Unum Limited is subject to regulation, including capital adequacy requirements and minimum solvency margins, by the FSA in the U.K. Current solvency
standards require an insurance company to hold capital equal to the greater of (i) a formulaic calculation of capital related to liabilities or (ii) a risk-based assessment of capital which is company specific reflecting the insurance
company’s individual risk profile. Unum Limited will adopt new capital requirements and risk management standards, Solvency II, resulting from a fundamental review of the capital adequacy standards for the European insurance industry. Solvency
II will replace the current capital requirements for Unum Limited. Solvency II requirements are still being developed and have not yet been adopted, but the current proposals contain new requirements on capital adequacy and risk management for
insurers, including (i) requirements to demonstrate adequate financial resources, including quantitative requirements, technical provisions, and calculation of Solvency II capital requirements through either an approved full or partial internal
model or the European standard formula approach, (ii) requirements to demonstrate an adequate system of governance, including effective risk management and prospective risk identification, and (iii) disclosure and regulatory reporting
requirements. The effective adoption date is expected to be January 1, 2013.

Our Bermuda-based insurance subsidiary is subject to
regulation by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (BMA). Last year the BMA initiated a comprehensive review of its insurance regulatory and solvency framework. Throughout 2010, the BMA published and released a series of consultation papers with
the stated purpose of being recognized as equivalent under the Solvency II directive. The BMA is working with European regulators and hopes to complete the assessment during the summer of 2011. The scope and scale of its proposed change is
potentially broad, and requirements are expected to vary by insurer licensing classification. It is too early to assess the impact, but the insurance industry may ultimately be subject to new rules regarding governance, administrative and
accounting processes, and/or long-term capital requirements.

See further discussion in “Risk Factors” contained herein in
Item 1A and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” contained herein in Item 7.







Index to Financial Statements

Insurance Holding Company Regulation

We are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be
commercially domiciled), which currently include Maine, Massachusetts, Tennessee, South Carolina, New York, Vermont, and California. These laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance
holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including intercompany transactions.

These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control
of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.

In addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our Company and certain of our
intermediate holding company subsidiaries. See further discussion in “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A and “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Available from Subsidiaries” contained herein in Item 7.

We are also subject to regulation under applicable regulations and reporting requirements in the foreign jurisdictions in which we or our
affiliates do business or have done business.

Federal Laws and Regulations

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), which effects comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services
in the United States, will subject us to potentially significant additional federal regulation. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, a process anticipated to
occur over the next few years. Among other provisions impacting or potentially impacting us, Dodd-Frank:



•Creates a new framework for regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets, including requiring that certain swaps be executed through a
centralized exchange or regulated facility and be cleared through a regulated clearinghouse and subjecting major swap participants (potentially including our Company) to capital and margin (i.e., collateral) requirements, which may have the effect
of increasing the costs of hedging generally and the credit risk posed by some counterparties;







Index to Financial Statements

•Establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council with authority to subject systemically important financial companies (including nonbank financial
companies such as our Company) to supervision and stricter prudential regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity, and credit
exposure, and in certain circumstances limitations on acquisitions or combinations, restrictions on product offerings, and/or requirements to sell assets; and

•Establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry (other than with respect
to health insurance, certain long-term care insurance, and crop insurance), including identifying issues or gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or the U.S. financial system and
recommending insurers (potentially including our Company) that should be designated for stricter regulation.

The USA
PATRIOT Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance
companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the
United States contain some similar provisions. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law
enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures, and controls.

For further discussion of regulation, refer to “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A.

Geographic Areas

Segment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains
and losses, for our U.K. operations totaled $845.8 million, $828.2 million, and $1,086.1 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. These amounts were approximately 8.3 percent, 8.2 percent, and 10.4 percent of consolidated segment operating
revenue for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, total assets and liabilities for our U.K. operations were $3.6 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, or approximately 6.3 percent and 5.2 percent of consolidated assets
and liabilities, respectively. Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of our U.K. operations will impact our reported operating results. See “Risk Factors” contained herein in Item 1A for further discussion of
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained herein in Item 7 and Note 12 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of Unum UK’s operating results.

Employees

At December 31, 2010, we had approximately 9,500 full-time employees.

Available Information

Our internet website address iswww.unum.com. We make
available, free of charge, on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission.







Index to Financial Statements

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Our executive officers, all of whom are also executive officers of certain of our principal subsidiaries, were appointed by Unum Group’s board of directors to serve until their successors are chosen
and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.



NameAgePositionThomas R. Watjen56President and Chief Executive Officer and a DirectorRobert O. Best61Executive Vice President, Global Business TechnologyListon Bishop III64Executive Vice President and General CounselRandall C. Horn58Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial LifeKevin P. McCarthy55Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum USJohn F. McGarryRichard P. McKenney5342Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum UKExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Watjen became
President and Chief Executive Officer in March 2003. He served as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer from May 2002 until March 2003. He became Executive Vice President, Finance in June 1999 and assumed the additional Risk Management
responsibilities in November 1999. Mr. Watjen originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1994.

Mr. Best was named Executive Vice President, Global Business Technology in March 2010. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Unum US from January 2007 and
Executive Vice President, Service Operations and Chief Information Officer from January 2006 to January 2007. He served as Executive Vice President, The Client Services Center, and Chief Information Officer from May 2003. Mr. Best originally
joined a Unum Group predecessor company as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in 1994.

Mr. Bishop became Executive Vice
President and General Counsel in October 2008. Prior to this appointment, he officially began serving as Interim General Counsel in April 2008. From August 1979 through September 2008, Mr. Bishop practiced corporate and securities law with the
law firm of Miller & Martin PLLC, except during the period from January 2005 through July 2007 when he was employed as deputy general counsel and corporate secretary of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.

Mr. Horn was named Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Colonial Life in May 2007. Prior to that, he served as Executive
Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer of Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company from March 2004. Before joining the Company, he served as Executive Vice President of Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company from 1993 until
2003, having joined that company in 1981.

Mr. McCarthy was named Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum
US in May 2007. He previously served as Executive Vice President, President, Unum US from January 2007. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Risk Operations from January 2006. He previously served as Executive Vice President,
Underwriting from May 2003. Mr. McCarthy originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company in 1976.

Mr. McGarry was named
Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Unum UK in July 2010. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Benefits, Individual Disability, and National Client Group Business, for Unum US from January 2010. Prior to that,
he served in various other capacities within Unum US, including Senior Vice President, Benefits Operations and Risk Management from March 2008 to January 2010, Senior Vice President, Benefits Operations from January 2006 to March 2008, and Senior
Vice President, Underwriting Operations from August 2005 to January 2006. Mr. McGarry originally joined a Unum Group predecessor company in 1986.







Index to Financial Statements

Mr. McKenney was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2009, having
joined the Company in July 2009. Before joining the Company, Mr. McKenney served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sun Life Financial Inc., an international financial services company, since February 2007, having joined
that company as Executive Vice President in September 2006. He served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Genworth Financial, Inc., a global financial security company, from May 2004 until August 2006.

