10-K


h34204e10vk.htm

LIVE NATION, INC. - 12/31/2005

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

Form 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2005

or

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
    from          
    to          .

Commission File Number

001-32601

LIVE NATION, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Delaware

20-3247759

(State of
    Incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

9348 Civic Center Drive

Beverly Hills, CA 90210

(Address of principal executive
    offices, including zip code)

(310) 867-7000

(Registrant’s telephone
    number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which
    Registered

Common Stock, $.01 Par Value
    per Share

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
    filer.

Large accelerated
    filer

o

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

On June 30, 2005, the registrant’s common stock was
    not publicly traded.

On February 28, 2006, there were 63,798,312 outstanding
    shares of Common Stock, excluding 3,376,600 shares held in
    treasury.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

None

LIVE
    NATION, INC.

INDEX TO

FORM 10-K



PART I

Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this

Form 10-K

(or otherwise made by us or on our behalf from time to time in
    other reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, news releases, conferences, World Wide Web postings
    or otherwise) that are not statements of historical fact
    constitute “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended, notwithstanding that such statements are not
    specifically identified. Forward-looking statements include, but
    are not limited to, statements about our financial position,
    business strategy, competitive position, potential growth
    opportunities, potential operating performance improvements, the
    effects of competition, the effects of future legislation or
    regulations and plans and objectives of our management for
    future operations. We have based our forward-looking statements
    on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on
    information available to our management at the time the
    statements are made. Use of the words “may,”
    “should,” “continue,” “plan,”
    “potential,” “anticipate,”
    “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,”
    “intend,” “outlook,” “could,”
    “target,” “project,” “seek,”
    “predict,” or variations of such words and similar
    expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements
    but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements.
    Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
    performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that
    could cause actual results to differ materially from those in
    such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to
    differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements
    include, but are not limited to, those set forth under
    Item 1A. — Risk Factors as well as other
    factors described herein or in our annual, quarterly and other
    reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (collectively, “cautionary statements”). Based upon
    changing conditions, should any one or more of these risks or
    uncertainties materialize, or should any underlying assumptions
    prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those
    described in any forward-looking statements. All subsequent
    written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us
    or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their
    entirety by the applicable cautionary statements. We do not
    intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as
    required by applicable law.

“Live Nation” (which may be referred to as the
    “Company”, “we”, “us” or
    “our”) means Live Nation, Inc. and its subsidiaries,
    or one of our segments, as the context requires.

Item 1.

Business

Our
    Company

We believe we are one of the world’s largest diversified
    venue operators for, and promoters and producers of, live
    entertainment events. For the year ended December 31, 2005,
    we promoted, produced or hosted over 29,500 events, including
    music concerts, theatrical performances, specialized motor
    sports and other events, with total attendance nearing
    60 million. In addition, we believe we operate one of the
    largest networks of venues used principally for music concerts
    and theatrical performances in the United States and Europe. As
    of December 31, 2005, we owned or operated 119 venues,
    consisting of 77 domestic and 42 international venues. These
    venues include 37 amphitheaters, 61 theaters, 15 clubs,
    four arenas and two festival sites. In addition, through equity,
    booking or similar arrangements we have the right to book events
    at 34 additional venues. For the year ended December 31,
    2005, we generated revenues of approximately $2.9 billion.
    Approximately 90% of our total revenues for 2005 resulted from
    revenues related to our owned or operated venues and from our
    promotion or production of music concerts and theatrical
    performances.

In addition, we believe we are a leading integrated sports
    marketing and management company specializing in the
    representation of sports athletes.

Our principal executive offices are located at 9348 Civic Center
    Drive, Beverly Hills, California 90210 (telephone: 310-867-7000).



Our
    History

We were formed through acquisitions of various entertainment
    businesses and assets by our predecessors. On August 1,
    2000, Clear Channel Communications, Inc. (“Clear
    Channel” or “Clear Channel Communications”)
    acquired our live entertainment business, which was initially
    formed in 1997. On August 2, 2005, we were incorporated in
    our current form as a Delaware corporation to own substantially
    all of the entertainment business of Clear Channel
    Communications. On December 21, 2005, the separation of the
    business previously conducted by Clear Channel’s live
    entertainment segment and sports representation business, now
    comprising our business, and the distribution by Clear Channel
    of all of our common stock to its shareholders, was completed in
    a tax free spin- off (the “Distribution,” the
    “Separation” or the “spin-off”). Following
    our separation from Clear Channel, we became a separate publicly
    traded company on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: LYV) on
    December 21, 2005. In connection with the Separation, we
    issued, through one of our subsidiaries, $40.0 million of
    redeemable preferred stock and borrowed $325.0 million
    under a new credit agreement. We used the proceeds to repay
    $220.0 million of debt owed to Clear Channel Communications
    and Clear Channel Communications contributed to our capital the
    remaining balance owed them. See “—  Recent
    Developments”.

Live
    Music Industry

The live music industry includes concert promotion and
    production, set design, venue and concession operation. Our main
    competitors in the North American live music industry include
    Anschutz Entertainment Group, which operates under a number of
    different names, House of Blues Entertainment, Inc., and SMG
    Entertainment, Inc. We also compete with numerous smaller
    national and regional companies in the United States and
    Europe.

According to Pollstar, a leading publisher of concert industry
    data, from 2003 to 2005, North American gross concert revenues
    increased from $2.5 billion to $3.1 billion, a
    compounded annual growth rate of approximately 11%. In the 2003
    to 2005 period, our global music revenues, comprised of gross
    concert revenues, increased from $2.1 billion to
    $2.3 billion, a compounded annual growth rate of 6%. We
    believe this growth was primarily due to increasing ticket
    prices for top-grossing acts and the continued willingness of
    these acts such as Madonna, The Rolling Stones and U2 to
    continue touring. According to Pollstar, while industry revenues
    increased from 2004 to 2005, ticket sales for the top 100 tours
    (representing approximately 67% of total domestic concert ticket
    revenues) declined by 3.5%. Although total attendance at our
    owned and operated amphitheaters declined in 2005 as compared to
    2004 as a result of fewer events, the average per show
    attendance at these venues actually increased 7%. We believe
    that this increase in average attendance was driven by a
    decrease in the average ticket price by 6% during 2005.

Typically, to initiate live entertainment events or tours,
    booking agents directly contract with performers to represent
    them for defined periods. Booking agents then contact promoters,
    who will contract with them or directly with performers to
    arrange events. Booking agents generally receive fixed or
    percentage fees from performers for their services. Promoters
    earn revenues primarily from the sale of tickets, as well as
    percentages of revenues from concessions. Performers are paid by
    the promoter under one of several different formulas, which may
    include fixed guarantees, percentages of ticket sales or the
    greater of guaranteed amounts or profit sharing payments based
    on gross ticket revenues. In addition, promoters may also
    reimburse performers for certain costs of production, such as
    sound and lights. Under guaranteed payment formulas, promoters
    assume the risks of unprofitable events. Promoters may
    renegotiate lower guarantees or cancel events because of
    insufficient ticket sales in order to reduce their losses.
    Promoters can also reduce the risk of losses by entering into
    global or national touring agreements with performers and
    including the right to offset lower ticket revenue shows with
    higher performing shows on the tour in the determination of
    overall artist fees.

For musical tours, one to four months typically elapse between
    booking performers and the first performances. Promoters, in
    conjunction with performers, managers and agents, set ticket
    prices and advertise events to cover expenses. Promoters market
    events, sell tickets, rent or otherwise provide venues (if not
    provided by booking agents) and arrange for local production
    services, such as stages and sets.



Venue operators typically contract with promoters to rent their
    venues for specific events on specific dates. Venue operators
    provide services such as concessions, parking, security,
    ushering and ticket-taking, and receive some or all of the
    revenues from concessions, merchandise, sponsorships, parking
    and premium seats. For the events they host, venue operators
    typically receive fixed fees or percentages of ticket sales, as
    well as percentages of total concession sales from the vendors
    and percentages of total merchandise sales from the
    merchandisers.

Industry participants, including ourselves, often perform one or
    more of the booking, promotion and venue operation functions.

Theatrical
    Industry

The theatrical industry includes groups engaged in promoting,
    which is generally referred to in the theater industry as
    “presenting,” and producing live theatrical
    presentations, as well as operating venues. Our main North
    American competitors in the theatrical industry include
    Nederlander Producing Company of America, Mirvish Productions,
    The Shubert Organization, The Walt Disney Company and Jujamcyn
    Theaters, as well as smaller regional players. In Europe, our
    competitors include Cameron Mackintosh, Really Useful Theater
    Group and Ambassadors Theatre Group, as well as smaller regional
    players.

According to data from members of The League of American
    Theatres and Producers, Inc., or the League, gross ticket sales
    for the North American theatrical industry of touring Broadway
    theatrical performances has increased from $642 million
    during the

2002-2003

season to $934 million during the

2004-2005

season, a compounded annual growth rate of 21%. In the 2003 to
    2005 period, our global theater revenues slightly decreased from
    $318.2 million to $317.0 million based on fewer
    profitable shows that we had the rights to present.

Live theater consists mainly of productions of existing musicals
    and dramatic works and the development of new works. While
    musicals require greater investments of time and capital than
    dramatic productions, they are more likely to become touring
    theatrical shows. For existing musicals, 12 to 24 months
    typically elapse between producers’ acquisitions of
    theatrical stage rights and the first performances. During this
    time the producers assemble touring companies and ready the
    shows for tours. In comparison, dramatic productions typically
    have smaller production budgets, shorter pre-production periods,
    lower operating costs and tend to occupy smaller theaters for
    shorter runs as compared to musicals.

Producers of touring theatrical shows first acquire the rights
    to works from their owners, who typically receive royalty
    payments in return. Producers then assemble casts, hire
    directors and arrange for the design and construction of sets
    and costumes. Producers also arrange transportation and schedule
    shows with local presenters. Local presenters, who generally
    operate or have relationships with venues, provide all local
    services such as selling tickets, hiring local personnel, buying
    advertising and paying fixed guarantees to producers. Presenters
    then have the right to recover the guarantees plus their local
    costs from ticket revenues. Presenters and producers share any
    remaining ticket revenues. North American venues often sell
    tickets for touring theatrical performances through
    “subscription series,” which are pre-sold season
    tickets for a defined number of shows in given venues.

In order to secure exclusive touring rights, investors may take
    equity positions in Broadway (New York) or West End (London)
    shows. Touring rights are generally granted to investors for
    three to four years. After investors have received complete
    return of their investments, net profits are generally split
    between the limited partners and producers.

Other

Specialized
    Motor Sports Industry

The specialized motor sports industry includes promoters and
    producers of specialized motor sports events as well as venue
    operators. Typical events include motorcycle road racing,
    supercross racing, monster truck shows, freestyle motocross
    events and other similar events. Our main competitors in the
    specialized motor sports industry are primarily smaller regional
    promoters. On a broader level, we compete against other



outdoor motor sports such as the National Association for Stock
    Car Auto Racing, or NASCAR, and the Indy Racing League, or IRL,
    in the United States.

In general, most suitable markets where we operate host one to
    four motor sports events each year, with larger markets hosting
    more performances. Venue operators of stadiums and arenas
    typically work with producers and promoters to schedule
    individual events or full seasons of events. Corporate
    sponsorships and television exposure are important financial
    components that contribute to the success of a single event or a
    season of events.

Specialized motor sports events make up a growing segment of the
    live entertainment industry. This growth has resulted from
    additional demand in existing markets and new demand in markets
    where arenas and stadiums have been built. The increasing
    popularity of specialized motor sports over the last several
    years has coincided with the increased popularity of other
    professional motor sports events, such as professional auto
    racing, including NASCAR and IRL. A number of events are also
    broadcast domestically and internationally.

Sports
    Representation Industry

The sports representation industry generally encompasses the
    negotiation of player contracts and the creation and evaluation
    of endorsement, promotional and other business opportunities for
    clients. Sports agents may also provide ancillary services, such
    as financial advisory or management services to their clients.
    Our primary competition in the sports representation industry
    are other sports representation agencies such as International
    Management Group, or IMG, Octagon Worldwide, and Gaylord Sports
    Management, as well as regional agencies and individual agents.

Our
    Business

We operate in two reportable business segments: global music and
    global theater. In addition, we operate in the specialized motor
    sports, sport representation and other businesses, which are
    included under “other.”

Information related to the operating segments of our global
    music, global theater and other operations for 2005, 2004 and
    2003 is included in Note M — Segment Data in
    the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in
    Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Global Music.

Our global music business
    principally involves the promotion or production of live music
    shows and tours by music artists in our owned and operated
    venues and in rented third-party venues. For the year ended
    December 31, 2005, our global music business generated
    approximately $2.3 billion, or 79%, of our total revenues.
    We promoted or produced over 10,000 events in 2005, including
    tours for artists such as U2, Paul McCartney, Dave Matthews Band
    and Toby Keith. In addition, we produced several large festivals
    in Europe, including Rock Werchter in Belgium, the North Sea
    Jazz Festival in Holland, and the Reading Festival in the United
    Kingdom. While our global music business operates year-round, we
    experience higher revenues during the second and third quarters
    due to the seasonal nature of our amphitheaters and
    international festivals, which are primarily used during or
    occur in May through September.

Global Theater.

Our global theater business
    presents and produces touring and other theatrical performances.
    Our touring theatrical performances consist primarily of
    revivals of previous commercial successes and new productions of
    theatrical performances playing on Broadway in New York City or
    the West End in London. For the year ended December 31,
    2005, our global theater business generated approximately
    $317.0 million, or 11%, of our total revenues. In 2005, we
    presented or produced over 14,000 theatrical performances
    of productions such as

The Producers, The Lion King, Mamma
    Mia!, Hairspray, Movin’ Out, Phantom of the Opera

and

Chicago.

We pre-sell tickets for our touring shows in
    approximately 46 touring markets through

Broadway Across
    America

, one of the largest subscription series in the
    United States and Canada. While our global theater business
    operates year-round, we experience higher revenues during
    September through April, which coincides with the theatrical
    touring season.

Other.

We believe we are one of the largest
    promoters and producers of specialized motor sports events,
    primarily in North America. In 2005, we held over 500 events in
    stadiums, arenas and other venues including monster truck shows,
    supercross races, motocross races, freestyle motocross events,
    motorcycle road racing



and dirt track motorcycle racing. In addition, we own numerous
    trademarked properties, including monster trucks such as

Grave
    Digger

tm

and

Blue
    Thunder

tm

,
    which generate additional licensing revenues. While our
    specialized motor sports business operates year-round, we
    experience higher revenues during January through March, which
    is the period when a larger number of specialized motor sports
    events occur.

We also provide integrated sports marketing and management
    services, primarily for professional athletes. Our marketing and
    management services generally involve our negotiation of player
    contracts with professional sports teams and of endorsement
    contracts with major brands. As of December 31, 2005, we
    had approximately 600 clients, including Kobe Bryant
    (basketball), David Ortiz (baseball), Tom Lehman (golf), Andy
    Roddick (tennis), Roy E. Williams (football) and Steven Gerrard
    (soccer).

We also promote and produce other live entertainment events,
    including family shows, such as

Dora the Explorer

and

Blue’s Clues.

In addition, we distribute television
    shows and DVDs, including

Motley Crue: Carnival of Sins

and

Ozzfest: 10th Year Anniversary Tour.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, businesses included
    under “other” generated approximately
    $298.5 million, or 10%, of our total revenues.

Our
    Business Activities

We principally act in the following capacities, performing one,
    some or all of these roles in connection with our events and
    tours:

Venue Operation.

As a venue operator, we
    contract with promoters to rent our venues for events and
    provide related services such as concessions, merchandising,
    parking, security, ushering and ticket-taking. We generate
    revenues primarily from rental income, ticket service charges,
    premium seating and venue sponsorships, as well as sharing in
    percentages of concessions, merchandise and parking. Revenues
    generated from venue operations typically have a higher margin
    than promotion or production revenues and therefore typically
    have a more direct relationship to operating income.

Sponsorships and Advertising.

We actively
    pursue the sale of national and local sponsorships and placement
    of advertising, including signage, promotional programs, naming
    of subscription series and tour sponsorships. Many of our venues
    also have

name-in-title

sponsorship programs. We believe national sponsorships allow us
    to maximize our network of venues and to arrange multi-venue
    branding opportunities for advertisers. Our national sponsorship
    programs have included companies such as American Express,
    Anheuser Busch and

Coca-Cola.

Our local and venue-focused sponsorships include venue signage,
    promotional programs,

on-site

activation, hospitality and tickets, and are derived from a
    variety of companies across various industry categories.
    Revenues generated from sponsorships and advertising typically
    have a higher margin than promotion or production revenues and
    therefore typically have a more direct relationship to operating
    income.

Promotion.

As a promoter, we typically book
    performers, arrange performances and tours, secure venues,
    provide for third-party production services, sell tickets and
    advertise events to attract audiences. We earn revenues
    primarily from the sale of tickets and pay performers under one
    of several formulas, including a fixed guaranteed amount

and/or

a
    percentage of ticket sales. For each event, we either use a
    venue we own or operate, or rent a third-party venue. In our
    global theater business, we generally refer to promotion as
    presentation. Revenues related to promotion activities represent
    the majority of our consolidated and combined revenues. These
    revenues are generally related to the volume of ticket sales and
    ticket prices. Event costs, included in divisional operating
    expenses, such as artist and production service expenses are
    typically substantial in relation to the revenues. As a result,
    significant increases or decreases in promotion revenue do not
    typically result in comparable changes to operating income.

Production.

As a producer, we generally
    develop event content, hire directors and artistic talent,
    develop sets and costumes, and coordinate the actual
    performances of the events. We produce tours on a global,
    national and regional basis. We generate revenues from fixed
    production fees and by sharing in a percentage of event or tour
    profits primarily related to the sale of tickets, merchandise
    and event and tour sponsorships. These production revenues are
    generally related to the size and profitability of the



production. Production costs, included in divisional operating
    expenses, are typically substantial in relation to the revenues.
    As a result, significant increases or decreases in production
    revenue do not typically result in comparable changes to
    operating income.

Operating
    Segments

Global
    Music

Within our global music segment, we are engaged in owning and
    operating concert venues, selling sponsorships and advertising
    and promoting and presenting music events and tours. Our global
    music business principally involves the promotion and production
    of live music performances and tours by music artists in venues
    owned and operated by us and in third-party venues rented by us.

The musical venues we operate consist primarily of amphitheaters
    and music theaters. We typically receive higher music profits
    from events in venues we own due to our ability to share in a
    greater percentage of revenues received from concession and
    merchandise sales as well as the opportunity to sell
    sponsorships for venue naming rights and other display
    advertising.

In the live music industry, concert venues generally consist of:

•

Stadiums

— Stadiums are multi-purpose
    facilities, often housing local sports teams. Stadiums typically
    have 30,000 or more seats. Although they are the largest venues
    available for live music, they are not specifically designed for
    live music. At December 31, 2005, we did not own or lease
    any stadiums, although on occasion we may rent them for certain
    music events.

•

Amphitheaters

— Amphitheaters are
    generally outdoor venues with between 5,000 and
    30,000 seats that are used primarily in the summer season.
    We believe they are popular because they are designed
    specifically for concert events, with premium seat packages and
    better lines of sight and acoustics. At December 31, 2005,
    we owned 14 and leased 23 amphitheaters.

•

Arenas

— Arenas are indoor venues that are
    used as multi-purpose facilities, often housing local sports
    teams. Arenas typically have between 5,000 and
    20,000 seats. Because they are indoors, they are able to
    offer amenities other similar-sized outdoor venues cannot such
    as luxury suites and premium club memberships. As a result, we
    believe they have become increasingly popular for higher-priced
    concerts aimed at audiences willing to pay for these amenities.
    At December 31, 2005, we owned one and leased two arenas.

•

Theaters

— Theaters are indoor venues that
    are built specifically for musical and theatrical events, but in
    some cases with minimal aesthetic and acoustic consideration.
    These venues typically have less than 5,000 seats. Because
    of their small size, they do not offer as much economic upside
    on a per show basis but as they can be used year-round, unlike
    an amphitheater, they can generate profits similar to an
    amphitheater. Theaters represent less risk to concert promoters
    because they have lower fixed costs associated with hosting a
    concert and may provide a more appropriately sized venue for
    developing artists. At December 31, 2005, we owned six and
    leased 17 theaters.

•

Clubs

— Clubs are indoor venues that are
    built specifically for musical events, but in some cases with
    minimal aesthetic and acoustic consideration. These venues
    typically have less than 1,000 seats and often without full
    fixed seating. Because of their small size, they do not offer as
    much economic upside, but they also represent less of a risk to
    a concert promoter because they have lower fixed costs
    associated with hosting a concert and also may provide a more
    appropriate size venue for developing artists. Clubs can also be
    used year-round and can therefore generate higher profits for
    the year, even though per show profits are lower. At
    December 31, 2005, we owned three and leased 11 clubs.

•

Festival Sites

— Festival sites are
    outdoor locations used primarily in the summer season to stage
    day-long or multi-day concert events featuring several
    performers. Depending on the location, festival site capacities
    can range from 10,000 to 120,000. We believe they are popular
    because of the value provided to the fan by packaging several
    performers for a day-long or multi-day event. While festival
    sites only host a few events each year, they can provide higher
    operating income because they have



lower costs associated with producing the event and maintaining
    the site. At December 31, 2005, we owned two festival sites.

We own or operate domestic and international music venues in the
    following locations:

North
    American Music Venues:

DMA

®

Region

Type of Venue

City, State

Rank*

Amphitheater

Theater

Club

Festival Site

New York, NY


•

Holmdel, NJ


•

Wantagh, NY


•

Westbury, NY


•

Los Angeles, CA


•

Devore, CA


•

Irvine, CA


•

Chicago, IL


•

Tinley Park, IL


•

Philadelphia, PA


•

Camden, NJ


•

Upper Darby, PA


•

Boston, MA


•

•

Mansfield, MA


•

San Francisco, CA


•

(2)

•

(2)

Concord, CA


•

Mountain View, CA


•

Bristow, VA


•

Atlanta, GA


•

•

•

Houston, TX


•

Detroit, MI


•

•

Tampa Bay, FL


•

Auburn, WA


•

Phoenix, AZ


•

Cleveland, OH


•

•

Denver, CO


•

Sacramento, CA


•

Marysville, CA


•

St. Louis, MO


•

Pittsburgh, PA


•

Burgettstown, PA


•

Indianapolis, IN


•

Noblesville, IN


•

Charlotte, NC


•

Hartford, CT


•

Wallingford, CT


•

Raleigh, NC


•

Nashville, TN


•



DMA

®

Region

Type of Venue

City, State

Rank*

Amphitheater

Theater

Club

Festival Site

Kansas City, KS


•

Bonner Springs, KS


•

Columbus, OH


•

East Troy, WI


•

Cincinnati, OH


•

•

Selma, TX


•

West Palm Beach, FL


•

Pelham, AL


•

Virginia Beach, VA


•

Albuquerque, NM


•

Darien Center, NY


•

Scranton, PA


•

Saratoga Springs, NY


•

Wheeling, WV


•

Morristown, OH


•

*

DMA

®

region refers to a United States designated market area as of
    January 1, 2006. At that date, there were 210
    DMA

®

s.
    DMA

®

is a registered trademark of Nielsen Media Research, Inc.

•

Bullet represents one venue by type, unless otherwise noted.

International
    Music Venues:

Type of Venue

City, Country

Arena

Theater

Club

Festival Site

Cardiff, Wales

•

Dublin, Ireland

•

London, England

•

(4)

•

(6)

Manchester, England

•

Reading, England

•

Sheffield, England

•

Southampton, England

•

Stockholm, Sweden

•

•

Bullet represents one venue by type, unless otherwise noted.

Global
    Theater

Within our theater segment, we are engaged in presentation and
    the production of touring and other theatrical performances,
    owning and operating theatrical venues and selling sponsorships
    and advertising.

We pre-sell tickets for our touring and other theatrical
    performances through one of the largest subscription series,

Broadway Across America

, in the United States and Canada
    (with 278,000 subscribers in the

2005-2006

season). We present these subscription series in approximately
    46 touring markets in North America, including Atlanta, Georgia;
    Boston, Massachusetts; Chicago, Illinois; Houston, Texas;
    Nashville, Tennessee and Seattle, Washington.

We invest in the production of touring and other theatrical
    performances. Touring theatrical performances consist primarily
    of revivals of previous commercial successes or new productions
    of theatrical performances



currently playing on Broadway in New York City or the West End
    in London. Frequently, we invest in shows or productions to
    obtain touring rights and favorable scheduling to distribute
    them across our presentation network.

In 2005, productions in which we had investments included

The
    Producers, Guys and Dolls, Swan Lake, Fiddler on the Roof,

and

Spamalot.

We derive revenues from our theater and venue operations
    primarily from rental income, presenting engagements,
    sponsorships, concessions and merchandise. For each theatrical
    event we host, we typically receive a fixed fee for use of the
    venue, as well as fees representing a percentage of total
    concession sales from the vendors and total merchandise sales
    from the performer or tour producer. As a theater owner, we
    typically receive 100% of sponsorship revenues and a portion of
    ticketing surcharges.

Theaters are generally indoor venues that are built specifically
    for musical and theatrical events, with substantial aesthetic
    and acoustic consideration. These venues typically have less
    than 5,000 seats. Additionally, given their size, they are
    able to host events aimed at niche audiences. At
    December 31, 2005, we owned 13 and leased 25 theaters
    in our theater segment. The theater segment also leases one
    club. Of these venues, 15 theatrical venues are in North
    America and 24 are international venues used primarily for
    theatrical presentations.

North
    American Theater Venues:

DMA

®

Region

Number of

Location

Rank*

Theaters

New York, NY


•

Chicago, IL


•

Philadelphia, PA


•

Boston, MA


•

(4)

Washington, DC


•

Minneapolis, MN


•

(3)

Baltimore, MD


•

Louisville, KY


•

Toronto, Canada

n/a

•

(2)

*

DMA

®

region refers to a United States designated market area as of
    January 1, 2006. At that date, there were 210
    DMA

®

s.
    DMA

®

is a registered trademark of Nielsen Media Research, Inc.

•

Bullet represents one venue by type, unless otherwise noted.



International
    Theater Venues:

Number of

Number of

Location

Theaters

Clubs

Ashton-Under-Lyne, England

•

Barcelona, Spain

•

Birmingham, England

•

Bristol, England

•

Edinburgh, Scotland

•

Felixtowe, England

•

Folkstone, England

•

Grimsby, England

•

Hastings, England

•

Hayes, England

•

Liverpool, England

•

London, England

•

(2)

Madrid, Spain

•

(3)

Manchester, England

•

(2)

Oxford, England

•

•

Southport, England

•

Sunderland, England

•

Torbay, England

•

York, England

•

•

Bullet represents one venue by type, unless otherwise noted.

Other

Specialized Motor Sports.

Our specialized
    motor sports events are primarily held in stadiums and arenas
    and include monster truck shows, supercross races, motocross
    races, freestyle motocross events, motorcycle road racing and
    dirt track motorcycle racing. Other events included in this
    division are thrill acts and other motor sports concepts and
    events. Our specialized motor sports activities consist
    principally of the promotion and production of specialized motor
    sports, which generate revenues primarily from ticket sales and
    sponsorships, as well as merchandising and video rights. At
    December 31, 2005, we leased one arena in Leicestershire,
    England that is used in our other operations.

Sports Representation.

Our sports
    representation business specializes in the negotiation of
    professional sports contracts and endorsement contracts for
    clients. Our clients have endorsed numerous products, both
    domestically and internationally, for many high profile
    companies. The amount of endorsement and other revenues that our
    clients generate is a function of, among other things, the
    clients’ professional performances and public appeal.

Within our sports representation business, we are engaged in
    talent representation, financial advisory services, consulting
    services, marketing and client endorsements and sponsorship
    sales. The term of client representation agreements vary by
    sport, but on average are for a period of three years with
    automatic renewal options. In addition, we are generally
    entitled to the revenue streams generated during the remaining
    term of any contract we negotiate, even if our representation
    agreement expires or is terminated. The sports representation
    business primarily earns revenue ratably over the year or
    contract life.

As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 600 clients,
    including Kobe Bryant (basketball), David Ortiz (baseball), Tom
    Lehman (golf), Andy Roddick (tennis), Roy E. Williams (football)
    and Steven Gerrard (soccer).



Other live entertainment events.

We also
    promote and produce other live entertainment events, including
    family shows, such as

Dora the Explorer

and

Blue’s Clues.

In addition, we distribute
    television shows and DVDs, including

Motley Crue: Carnival of
    Sins

and

Ozzfest:

th

Year
    Anniversary Tour.

Our
    Strategy

Our goal is to increase shareholder value by maximizing our cash
    flow from operations. To accomplish this goal, our strategy is
    to acquire and distribute content through our global network and
    pursue all revenue lines that transpire from the live event.
    This is to be achieved through:

•

Securing, promoting and marketing live content to fill our
    global network.

We seek to attract large
    audiences by securing compelling live content. We believe we
    have an established reputation for high standards of performance
    and extensive knowledge of the live entertainment industry.

•

Maximizing revenue streams around our global venue
    distribution network.

We seek to maximize our
    global venue distribution network via acquiring compelling
    content and expanding ancillary revenue lines: sponsorship, food
    and beverage, ticketing, merchandise and digital.

•

Building digital distribution revenue streams resulting from
    our vast live event tickets, event inventory, venue network and
    fan database.

We will look to create and
    distribute an array of live products directly to the fan and
    maximize our live event investment.

•

Selectively pursuing investment and acquisition
    opportunities.

We intend to pursue investments
    and acquisitions that contribute to the above goals and where
    the returns and growth potential are consistent with our
    long-term goal of increasing shareholder value. We believe that
    significant opportunities exist both in the United States and
    foreign markets to expand our distribution network. However, our
    ability to make acquisitions in the near term may be constrained
    by the limitations imposed by our financing documents, market
    conditions and the tax matters agreement.

Competition

Competition in the live entertainment industry is intense. We
    compete primarily on the basis of our ability to deliver quality
    entertainment products and enhanced fan experiences from music
    concerts, touring theatrical performances and specialized motor
    sports events, including:

•

quality of service delivered to our clients;

•

track record in promoting and producing live entertainment
    events and tours both in the United States and internationally;

•

track record in negotiating favorable terms of professional
    sports contracts and endorsement contracts for clients;

•

scope and effectiveness of our expertise of marketing and
    sponsorship programs; and

•

financial stability.

Although we believe that our entertainment products and services
    currently compete favorably with respect to such factors, we
    cannot provide any assurance that we can maintain our
    competitive position against current and potential competitors,
    especially those with significantly greater brand recognition,
    financial, marketing, service, support, technical and other
    resources.

Global Music.

In the markets in which we
    promote musical concerts, we face competition from promoters, as
    well as from certain artists that promote their own concerts. We
    believe that barriers to entry into the promotion services
    business are low and that certain local promoters are
    increasingly expanding the geographic scope of their operations.
    In markets where we own or operate a venue, we compete with
    other venues to serve artists likely to perform in that general
    region. In markets where we do not own or operate venues, we
    compete with other venues and promoters for popular tours.
    Consequently, touring artists have significant alternatives to
    our venues in scheduling tours.



Our main competitors in the North American live music industry
    include AEG Live and House of Blues Entertainment, in addition
    to numerous smaller regional companies and various casinos in
    the United States and Europe. Some of our competitors in the
    live music industry have a stronger presence in certain markets,
    and have access to other sports and entertainment assets, as
    well as greater financial resources and brand recognition, which
    may enable them to gain a greater competitive advantage in
    relation to us.

Global Theater.

We compete with other
    presenters to obtain presentation arrangements with venues and
    performing arts organizations in various markets, including
    markets with more than one venue suitable for presenting a
    touring or other theatrical show. We compete with other New York
    and London-based production companies for the rights to produce
    particular shows. As a producer of Broadway and West End shows,
    we compete with producers of other theatrical performances for
    box office sales, talent and theater space. As the producer of a
    touring show, we compete with producers of other touring or
    other theatrical performances to book the production in
    desirable presentation markets.

Our main competitors in the global theatrical industry include
    Nederlander Producing Company of America, Mirvish Productions,
    The Shubert Organization, The Walt Disney Company and Jujamcyn
    Theaters. Some of our competitors in the theatrical industry
    operate more theaters and have more Broadway show interests than
    we do in New York City, from which most North American
    theatrical touring productions originate. In addition, these
    competitors may have significantly greater brand recognition and
    greater financial and other resources, which could enable them
    to strengthen their competitive positions against us.

Other.

Our main competitors in the specialized
    motor sports industry are primarily smaller regional promoters.
    On a broader level, we compete against other outdoor motor
    sports such as NASCAR and IRL in the United States. Some of our
    competitors in the specialized motor sports industry, such as
    NASCAR, enjoy stronger brand recognition and larger revenues in
    the motor sports industry than we do and may have greater
    financial and other resources enabling them to gain a greater
    competitive advantage in relation to us.

Our primary competition in sports representation includes
    numerous agencies such as IMG, Octagon and Gaylord, as well as
    regional agencies and individual agents. Some of our competitors
    in the sports representation industry have a stronger
    international presence than we do in the sports representation
    business, as well as larger television sports programming and
    distribution capabilities.

Recent
    Developments

During July 2005, we purchased a 50.1% controlling interest in
    Mean Fiddler Group, PLC (“Mean Fiddler”) in the United
    Kingdom for approximately $43.6 million. Total assets were
    valued at approximately $117.0 million, which includes
    $93.9 million of goodwill, and total liabilities and
    minority interest of approximately $73.4 million. Mean
    Fiddler is a consolidated subsidiary that is part of our global
    music segment. Mean Fiddler is involved in the promotion and
    production of live music events, including festivals, and venue
    operations.

On December 21, 2005, we were spun-off from Clear Channel
    Communications through a tax free distribution of shares to
    shareholders of Clear Channel Communications. At the date of the
    Separation, Clear Channel Communications contributed its
    ownership interest in its subsidiary, Clear Channel
    Entertainment, to Live Nation, Inc. In connection with the
    Separation, we issued 200,000 shares of Series A
    redeemable preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, and
    200,000 shares of Series B redeemable preferred stock,
    par value $.01 per share, with an aggregate liquidation
    preference of $40.0 million. Both series of preferred stock
    accrue dividends at 13% per annum and are mandatorily
    redeemable on December 21, 2011. See Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources.

On December 21, 2005, we entered into a $610.0 million
    credit agreement with a syndicate of banks and other financial
    institutions. The credit agreement consists of a
    $325.0 million


/


-year term loan and a $285.0 million


/


-year revolving credit facility, with sub limits of up to
    $235.0 million available for the issuance of letters of
    credit and up to $100.0 million available for borrowings in
    foreign currencies.



See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.

On January 25, 2006, we publicly announced a

15-year

agreement to manage and promote the world famous Wembley Arena
    in London. Wembley Arena is currently undergoing an extensive
    refurbishment with plans to re-open in April 2006. Wembley Arena
    plays host to more than 200 international concerts and events
    each year.

On January 26, 2006, we publicly announced the sale of a
    portion of our sports talent representation business assets
    located in Los Angeles for $12.0 million in cash.

On March 16, 2006, we entered into interest rate swaps as
    required by our senior secured credit facility. These swaps have
    a life of three years, a notional amount of $162.5 million
    and a fixed rate of 5.105%.

Our
    Relationship with Clear Channel Communications

In connection with our separation from Clear Channel
    Communications, we entered into certain agreements with Clear
    Channel. The key terms of the principal agreements that continue
    to be operative are discussed in Note H to the consolidated
    and combined financial statements in Item 8. Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data and Item 13. Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and are summarized below:

Master Separation and Distribution
    Agreement.

On December 20, 2005, we entered
    into a Master Separation and Distribution Agreement with Clear
    Channel Communications. The agreement provides for, among other
    things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect
    the transfer of assets and our assumption of liabilities
    necessary to separate the transferred businesses from Clear
    Channel, the distribution of our common stock to the holders of
    record of Clear Channel common stock on December 14, 2005,
    and certain other agreements governing our relationship with
    Clear Channel after the date of the Distribution.

Transition Services Agreement.

On
    December 21, 2005, we entered into a Transition Services
    Agreement with Clear Channel Management Services, L.P., an
    affiliate of Clear Channel Communications, pursuant to which
    Clear Channel Management Services, L.P. will provide services to
    us including, but not limited to treasury, human resources,
    legal, and information systems. The charges for the transition
    services are intended to allow Clear Channel Management
    Services, L.P. to fully recover the allocated direct costs of
    providing the services, plus all

out-of-pocket

costs and expenses, generally without profit. The allocation of
    costs will be based on various measures depending on the service
    provided, including relative revenue, employee headcount or
    number of users of a service.

Tax Matters Agreement.

On December 21,
    2005, we entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with Clear Channel
    Communications to govern the respective rights, responsibilities
    and obligations of Clear Channel and us with respect to tax
    liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests and other
    matters regarding income taxes, non-income taxes and preparing
    and filing tax returns, as well as with respect to any
    additional taxes incurred by us attributable to actions, events
    or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business
    following the spin-off, including taxes imposed if the spin-off
    fails to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355
    of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
    “Code”), or if Clear Channel is not able to recognize
    certain losses.

Employee Matters Agreement.

On
    December 21, 2005, we entered into an Employee Matters
    Agreement with Clear Channel Communications covering a number of
    compensation, employment and employee benefits matters relating
    to our employees. In general, the agreement provides that we
    will be solely responsible for the majority of the liabilities
    and expenses relating to our current and former employees and
    their covered dependents and beneficiaries, regardless of when
    incurred.

Trademark and Copyright License Agreement.

On
    December 21, 2005, we entered into a Trademark and
    Copyright License Agreement with Clear Channel Identity, L.P.,
    an affiliate of Clear Channel Communications, establishing our
    right to continue to use the trademark CLEAR CHANNEL,



other marks incorporating the term CLEAR CHANNEL or variations
    thereof, the mark CC and other marks used in connection with the
    businesses transferred to us during a transitional period ending
    December 21, 2006.

Government
    Regulations

We are subject to federal, state and local laws both
    domestically and internationally governing matters such as
    construction, renovation and operation of our venues as well as:

•

licensing and permitting;

•

human health, safety and sanitation requirements;

•

the service of food and alcoholic beverages;

•

working conditions, labor, minimum wage and hour, citizenship,
    and employment laws;

•

compliance with The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and
    the United Kingdom’s Disability Discrimination Act 1995;

•

sales and other taxes and withholding of taxes;

•

historic landmark rules; and

•

environmental protection.

We believe that our venues are in material compliance with these
    laws. The regulations relating to our food and support service
    in our venues are many and complex. A variety of regulations at
    various governmental levels relating to the handling,
    preparation and serving of food (including in some cases
    requirements relating to the temperature of food), the
    cleanliness of food production facilities, and the hygiene of
    food-handling personnel are enforced primarily at the local
    public health department level.

We also must comply with applicable licensing laws, as well as
    state and local service laws, commonly called dram shop
    statutes. Dram shop statutes generally prohibit serving
    alcoholic beverages to certain persons such as an individual who
    is intoxicated or a minor. If we violate dram shop laws, we may
    be liable to third parties for the acts of the patron. Although
    we generally hire outside vendors to provide these services at
    our operated venues and regularly sponsor training programs
    designed to minimize the likelihood of such a situation, we
    cannot guarantee that intoxicated or minor patrons will not be
    served or that liability for their acts will not be imposed on
    us.

We are also required to comply with The Americans with
    Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, the United Kingdom’s
    Disability Discrimination Act 1995, or the DDA, and certain
    state statutes and local ordinances that, among other things,
    require that places of public accommodation, including both
    existing and newly constructed venues, be accessible to
    customers with disabilities. The ADA and DDA require that venues
    be constructed to permit persons with disabilities full use of a
    live entertainment venue. The ADA and DDA may also require that
    certain modifications be made to existing venues in order to
    make them accessible to patrons and employees who are disabled.
    In order to comply with the ADA, DDA and other similar
    ordinances, we may face substantial capital expenditures in the
    future.

From time to time, state and federal governmental bodies have
    proposed legislation that could have an affect on our business.
    For example, some legislatures have proposed laws in the past
    that would impose potential liability on us and other promoters
    and producers of live entertainment events for entertainment
    taxes and for other incidents that occur at our events,
    particularly relating to drugs and alcohol.

In addition, we and our venues are subject to extensive
    environmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage,
    disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous
    substances, as well as zoning and noise level restrictions which
    may affect, among other things, the hours of operations of our
    venues.



Employees

At December 31, 2005, we had approximately
    3,000 full-time employees, including 1,700 domestic and
    1,300 international employees, of which approximately 2,900 were
    employed in our operations departments and approximately 100
    were employed in our corporate area. We expect to hire
    additional employees in our corporate area as we transition to
    providing services that were and still are being provided to us
    by Clear Channel Communications under a transitional services
    agreement, as discussed above.

Our staffing needs vary significantly throughout the year.
    Therefore, we also, from time to time, employ part-time or
    seasonal employees. At December 31, 2005, we employed
    approximately 3,700 seasonal part-time employees and during peak
    seasonal periods, particularly in the summer months, we have
    employed as many as 15,900 part-time employees. The
    stagehands at some of our venues, and the actors, musicians and
    others involved in some of our business operations are subject
    to collective bargaining agreements. Our union agreements
    typically have a term of three years and thus regularly expire
    and require negotiation in the course of our business. We
    believe that we enjoy good relations with our employees and
    other unionized labor involved in our events, and there have
    been no significant work stoppages in the past three years. Upon
    the expiration of any of our collective bargaining agreements,
    however, we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining
    agreements on terms favorable to us, and our business operations
    at one or more of our facilities may be interrupted as a result
    of labor disputes or difficulties and delays in the process of
    renegotiating our collective bargaining agreements. A work
    stoppage at one or more of our owned or operated venues or at
    our produced or presented events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition. We cannot predict the effect that new collective
    bargaining agreements will have on our expenses or that caps on
    agents’ fees will have on the revenues and operating income
    of our sports representation business.

Available
    Information

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports,
    proxy statements and other information with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may read and copy any
    materials we have filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public
    Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC
    20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public
    Reference Room by calling the SEC at

1-800-SEC-0330.

Our filings with the SEC are also available to the public
    through the SEC’s website at

http://www.sec.gov.

You can find more information about us at our Internet website
    located at

www.livenation.com

. Our Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

our Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q,

our Current Reports on

Form 8-K

and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge
    on our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after
    we electronically file such material with the SEC.

Item 1A.

Risk
    Factors

You should carefully consider each of the following risks and
    all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report.
    The following risks relate principally to our leverage, our
    business, our common stock and our separation from Clear Channel
    Communications. The risks and uncertainties described below are
    not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently
    believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.
    If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into
    actual events, this could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition or results of operations. In that
    case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.

Risks
    Associated with Our Leverage

We
    have a large amount of debt, redeemable preferred stock and
    lease obligations that could restrict our operations and impair
    our financial condition.

Our total indebtedness for borrowed money, including our
    redeemable preferred stock, was approximately
    $406.8 million at December 31, 2005. Our current
    available borrowing capacity under the senior secured credit
    facility is approximately $610.0 million, consisting of our
    $325.0 million term loan facility, all of which



is outstanding, and our $285.0 million revolving credit
    facility, none of which is outstanding, with sub-limits up to
    $235.0 million available for letters of credit. At
    December 31, 2005, outstanding letters of credit were
    approximately $46.4 million leaving total available credit
    of $238.6 million for future borrowings. We may also incur
    additional substantial indebtedness in the future.

Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences,
    including:

•

increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and
    industry conditions;

•

limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning
    for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry;

•

limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and

•

requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds
    available for working capital, capital expenditures,
    acquisitions and other purposes.

In addition, our redeemable preferred stock bears an annual
    dividend rate of 13%, or $5.2 million annually, and is
    subject to financial and other covenants substantially similar
    to the covenants applicable to our senior secured credit
    facility. If we default under any of these covenants, we will
    have to pay additional dividends.

In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had approximately
    $1.0 billion in operating lease agreements, of which
    approximately $64.3 million is due in 2006 and
    $60.7 million is due in 2007.

If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to
    service our debt, redeemable preferred stock or lease
    obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional
    equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. However, these
    measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to
    meet scheduled debt, redeemable preferred stock or lease service
    obligations. We may be unable to restructure or refinance our
    obligations and obtain additional equity financing or sell
    assets on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, the
    inability to meet our debt, redeemable preferred stock or lease
    obligations could cause us to default on those obligations. If
    we fail to meet any minimum financial requirements contained in
    instruments governing our debt, we would be in default under
    such instruments, which, in turn, could result in defaults under
    other debt instruments. In addition, if we default under any of
    the covenants applicable to our preferred stock, we will have to
    pay additional dividends. Any such defaults could materially
    impair our financial condition and liquidity. See Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources for a discussion of our obligations.

To
    service our debt, lease and preferred stock obligations and to
    fund potential capital expenditures, we will require a
    significant amount of cash to meet our needs, which depends on
    many factors beyond our control.

Our ability to service our debt, lease and preferred stock
    obligations and to fund potential capital expenditures for venue
    construction, expansion or renovation will require a significant
    amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our
    control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our
    debt, including our senior secured credit facility, will also
    depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to
    an extent, is subject to general economic, financial,
    competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are
    beyond our control.

We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient
    cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us in
    an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund
    our other liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2005,
    approximately $25.7 million of total indebtedness
    (excluding interest) is due in 2006, $9.1 million is due in
    the aggregate for 2007 and 2008, $9.4 million is due in the
    aggregate for 2009 and 2010, and $362.6 million is due
    thereafter. See the table in Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Contractual Obligations and
    Commitments — Firm Commitments. If our future
    cash flow from operations and other capital resources are
    insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund
    our liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay our
    business



activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain
    additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a
    portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may be limited on
    assets we can sell under the terms of the tax matters agreement
    with Clear Channel Communications. We cannot assure you that we
    will be able to refinance any of our debt on a timely basis or
    on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of our
    existing debt, including our senior secured credit facility,
    other future debt and our preferred stock may limit our ability
    to pursue any of these alternatives. See Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources.

Our
    senior secured credit facility and preferred stock designations
    may restrict our ability to finance operations and capital needs
    and our operating flexibility.

Our senior secured credit facility and preferred stock
    designations include restrictive covenants that, among other
    things, restrict our ability to:

•

incur additional debt;

•

pay dividends and make distributions;

•

make certain investments;

•

repurchase our stock and prepay certain indebtedness;

•

create liens;

•

enter into transactions with affiliates;

•

modify the nature of our business;

•

enter into sale-leaseback transactions;

•

transfer and sell material assets; and

•

merge or consolidate.

In addition, our senior secured credit facility and preferred
    stock designations include additional restrictions, including
    requirements to maintain certain financial ratios. Our failure
    to comply with the terms and covenants in our indebtedness could
    lead to a default under the terms of those documents, which
    would entitle the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and
    declare all amounts owed due and payable. If we default under
    any of the covenants applicable to our preferred stock, the
    holder of our preferred stock may be entitled to elect a
    director of one of our subsidiaries, and we will have to pay
    additional dividends.

Risk
    Factors Relating to Our Business

Our
    live entertainment business is highly sensitive to public tastes
    and dependent on our ability to secure popular artists and other
    live entertainment events, and we may be unable to anticipate or
    respond to changes in consumer preferences, which may result in
    decreased demand for our services.

Our ability to generate revenues from our entertainment
    operations is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes
    and dependent on the availability of popular artists and events.
    Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the
    tastes of consumers and to offer events that appeal to them.
    Since we rely on unrelated parties to create and perform live
    entertainment content, any unwillingness to tour or lack of
    availability of popular artists, touring theatrical
    performances, specialized motor sports talent and other
    performers could limit our ability to generate revenues. In
    addition, we typically book our live music tours one to four
    months in advance of the beginning of the tour and often agree
    to pay an artist a fixed guaranteed amount prior to our
    receiving any operating income. Therefore, if the public is not
    receptive to the tour or we or a performer cancel the tour, we
    may incur a loss for the tour depending on the amount of the
    fixed guarantee or incurred costs relative to any revenues
    earned, as well as foregone revenue we could have earned at
    booked venues. Furthermore, consumer preferences change from
    time to time, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react
    to these changes could result in reduced demand for our
    services, which would adversely affect our operating results and
    profitability.



We
    have incurred net losses and may experience future net
    losses.

Our operating results have been adversely affected by, among
    other things, a global economic slowdown, increased cost of
    entertainers and a decline in the number of live entertainment
    events. We incurred a net loss of approximately
    $130.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005,
    and generated net income of approximately $16.3 million and
    $57.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2004
    and 2003, respectively. We may face reduced demand for our live
    entertainment events and other factors that could adversely
    affect our results of operations in the future. We cannot
    predict whether we will achieve profitability in future periods.

Our
    operations are seasonal and our results of operations vary from
    quarter to quarter, so our financial performance in certain
    financial quarters may not be indicative of or comparable to our
    financial performance in subsequent financial
    quarters.

We believe our financial results and cash needs will vary
    greatly from quarter to quarter depending on, among other
    things, the timing of tours and theatrical productions, tour
    cancellations, capital expenditures, seasonal and other
    fluctuations in our operating results, the timing of guaranteed
    payments and receipt of ticket sales, financing activities,
    acquisitions and investments and receivables management. Because
    our results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our
    financial results for one quarter cannot necessarily be compared
    to another quarter and may not be indicative of our future
    financial performance in subsequent quarters. Typically, our
    global music segment experiences its lowest financial
    performance in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar
    year as our outdoor venues are primarily used during May through
    September. Our global theater segment experiences its strongest
    demand in the first, second and fourth quarters of the calendar
    year as the theatrical touring season runs during September
    through April. In addition, the timing of tours of top grossing
    acts can impact comparability of quarterly results year over
    year, although annual results may not be impacted.

The following table sets forth our operating income (loss) for
    the last eight fiscal quarters (in thousands):

Operating

Fiscal Quarter

Income (Loss)

March 31, 2004

$


June 30, 2004

$

8,056

September 30, 2004

$

70,869

December 31, 2004

$

(20,235

)

March 31, 2005

$

(27,526

)

June 30, 2005

$

15,258

September 30, 2005

$

61,868

December 31, 2005

$

(62,783

)

We may
    be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic
    conditions, which could affect consumer and corporate spending
    and, therefore, significantly adversely impact our operating
    results.

A decline in attendance at or reduction in the number of live
    entertainment events has had an adverse effect on our revenues
    and operating income. In addition, during the most recent
    economic slowdown in the United States, many consumers reduced
    their discretionary spending and advertisers reduced their
    advertising expenditures. The impact of slowdowns on our
    business is difficult to predict, but they may result in
    reductions in ticket sales, sponsorship opportunities and our
    ability to generate revenues. The risks associated with our
    businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or
    recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in attendance
    at live entertainment events.

Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate
    spending. Many factors related to corporate spending and
    discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions
    affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, fuel
    prices, interest and tax rates and inflation can significantly
    impact our operating results. Business conditions, as well as
    various industry conditions, including corporate



marketing and promotional spending and interest levels, can also
    significantly impact our operating results. These factors can
    affect attendance at our events, premium seats, sponsorship,
    advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir
    sales, as well as the financial results of sponsors of our
    venues, events and the industry. Negative factors such as
    challenging economic conditions, public concerns over additional
    terrorism and security incidents, particularly when combined,
    can impact corporate and consumer spending, and one negative
    factor can impact our results more than another. There can be no
    assurance that consumer and corporate spending will not be
    adversely impacted by economic conditions, thereby possibly
    impacting our operating results and growth.

Loss
    of our key management and other personnel could impact our
    business.

Our business is dependent upon our senior executive officers and
    other key personnel to run our business. The loss of these
    officers or other key personnel could adversely affect our
    operations, due to their associations and contacts with
    performers and other key industry agents, venue managers and
    sponsors. Although we have entered into long-term agreements
    with some of our key executive officers and other personnel to
    protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no
    assurance that all or any of these key employees will remain
    with us or will retain their associations with key business
    contacts.

Doing
    business in foreign countries creates certain risks not found in
    doing business in the United States.

Doing business in foreign countries involves certain risks that
    may not exist when doing business in the United States. For the
    years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, our international
    operations accounted for approximately 31% and 28%,
    respectively, of our revenues during those periods. The risks
    involved in foreign operations that could result in losses
    against which we are not insured include:

•

exposure to local economic conditions;

•

potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign
    countries with the United States;

•

hostility from local populations;

•

restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and
    earnings;

•

government policies against businesses owned by foreigners;

•

investment restrictions or requirements;

•

expropriations of property;

•

potential instability of foreign governments;

•

risks of insurrections;

•

risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements
    with governmental authorities;

•

diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in
    foreign countries;

•

foreign exchange restrictions;

•

withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
    subsidiaries; and

•

changes in foreign taxation structures.

In addition, we may incur substantial tax liabilities if we
    repatriate any of the cash generated by our international
    operations back to the United States due to our current
    inability to recognize any foreign tax credits that would be
    associated with such repatriation. We are not currently in a
    position to recognize any tax assets in the United States that
    are the result of payments of income or withholding taxes in
    foreign jurisdictions.



Exchange
    rates may cause fluctuations in our results of operations that
    are not related to our operations.

Because we own assets overseas and derive revenues from our
    international operations, we may incur currency translation
    losses or gains due to changes in the values of foreign
    currencies relative to the United States Dollar. We cannot
    predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future
    operating results. For the years ended December 31, 2005
    and 2004, our international operations accounted for
    approximately 31% and 28%, respectively, of our revenues during
    those periods. In addition, our international operations have
    accounted for approximately 63% of our operating income in prior
    years. Although we cannot predict the future relationship
    between the United States Dollar and the currencies used by our
    international businesses, principally the British Pound and the
    Euro, for the year ended December 31, 2005, we experienced
    a foreign exchange rate net loss of $1.3 million which had
    a negative effect on our operating income, while for the years
    ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, we experienced foreign
    exchange rate net gains of $6.3 million and
    $7.6 million, respectively, for those periods, which had a
    positive effect on our operating income. See Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosure about Market
    Risk — Foreign Currency Risk.

We may
    be unsuccessful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any,
    which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our compliance
    with antitrust, competition and other regulations may limit our
    operations and future acquisitions.

Our future growth rate depends in part on our selective
    acquisition of additional businesses. We may be unable to
    identify suitable targets for acquisition or make acquisitions
    at favorable prices. If we identify a suitable acquisition
    candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition
    would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to
    obtain financing on acceptable terms and requisite government
    approvals.

Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with
    integrating the operations, financial reporting, technologies
    and personnel of acquired companies; managing geographically
    dispersed operations; the diversion of management’s
    attention from other business concerns; the inherent risks in
    entering markets or lines of business in which we have either
    limited or no direct experience; unknown risks; and the
    potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic
    partners of acquired companies. We may not successfully
    integrate any businesses or technologies we may acquire in the
    future and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost
    benefits. Acquisitions may be expensive, time consuming and may
    strain our resources. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our
    earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations as
    a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt,
    one-time write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of
    other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions that
    we may pursue could result in dilutive issuances of equity
    securities.

We are also subject to laws and regulations, including those
    relating to antitrust, that could significantly affect our
    ability to expand our business through acquisitions. For
    example, the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division
    of the United States Department of Justice with respect to our
    domestic acquisitions, and the European Commission, the
    antitrust regulator of the European Union, with respect to our
    European acquisitions, have the authority to challenge our
    acquisitions on antitrust grounds before or after the
    acquisitions are completed. State agencies may also have
    standing to challenge these acquisitions under state or federal
    antitrust law. Comparable authorities in foreign countries also
    have the ability to challenge our foreign acquisitions. Our
    failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations could
    result in, among other things, regulatory actions or legal
    proceedings against us, the imposition of fines, penalties or
    judgments against us or significant limitations on our
    activities. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we
    operate is subject to change. New or revised requirements
    imposed by governmental regulatory authorities could have
    adverse effects on us, including increased costs of compliance.
    We also may be adversely affected by changes in the
    interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations
    by these governmental authorities.

In addition, restrictions contained in the tax matters agreement
    between us and Clear Channel and the credit agreement for the
    senior secured credit facility restrict our ability to make
    acquisitions.



There
    is the risk of personal injuries and accidents in connection
    with our live entertainment events, which could subject us to
    personal injury or other claims and increase our expenses, as
    well as reduce attendance at our live entertainment events,
    causing a decrease in our revenues.

There are inherent risks involved with producing live
    entertainment events. As a result, personal injuries and
    accidents have, and may, occur from time to time, which could
    subject us to claims and liabilities for personal injuries.
    Incidents in connection with our live entertainment events at
    any of our venues or venues that we rent could also result in
    claims, reducing operating income or reducing attendance at our
    events, causing a decrease in our revenues. We are currently
    subject to wrongful death claims, as well as other litigation.
    While we maintain insurance polices that provide coverage within
    limits that are sufficient, in management’s judgment, to
    protect us from material financial loss for personal injuries
    sustained by persons at our venues or accidents in the ordinary
    course of business, there can be no assurance that such
    insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances.

Costs
    associated with, and our ability to, obtain adequate insurance
    could adversely affect our profitability and financial
    condition.

Heightened concerns and challenges regarding property, casualty,
    liability, business interruption and other insurance coverage
    have resulted from the terrorist and related security incidents
    on and after September 11, 2001 in the United States, as
    well as the more recent terrorist attacks in Madrid and London.
    As a result, we may experience increased difficulty obtaining
    high policy limits of coverage at reasonable costs, including
    coverage for acts of terrorism. We have a material investment in
    property and equipment at each of our venues, which are
    generally located near highly populated cities and which hold
    events typically attended by large numbers of fans. At
    December 31, 2005, we had property and equipment with a net
    book value of approximately $808.9 million.

These operational, geographical and situational factors, among
    others, have resulted in, and may continue to result in,
    significant increases in insurance premium costs and
    difficulties obtaining sufficiently high policy limits with
    deductibles that we believe to be reasonable. We cannot assure
    you that future increases in insurance costs and difficulties
    obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our
    profitability, thereby possibly impacting our operating results
    and growth.

We cannot guarantee that our insurance policy coverage limits,
    including insurance coverage for property, casualty, liability
    and business interruption losses and acts of terrorism, would be
    adequate under the circumstances should one or multiple events
    occur at or near any of our venues, or that our insurers would
    have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay
    our related claims or damages. We cannot guarantee that adequate
    coverage limits will be available, offered at reasonable costs,
    or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The
    occurrence of such an incident or incidents affecting any one or
    more of our venues could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial position and future results of operations if asset
    damage

and/or

company liability were to exceed insurance coverage limits or if
    an insurer were unable to sufficiently or fully pay our related
    claims or damages.

Costs
    associated with capital improvements could adversely affect our
    profitability and liquidity.

Growth or maintenance of our existing revenues depends in part
    on consistent investment in our venues. Therefore, we expect to
    continue to make substantial capital improvements in our venues
    to meet long-term increasing demand, to increase entertainment
    value and to increase revenues. We frequently have a number of
    significant capital projects under way. Numerous factors, many
    of which are beyond our control, may influence the ultimate
    costs and timing of various capital improvements at our venues,
    including:

•

availability of financing on favorable terms;

•

unforeseen changes in design;

•

increases in the cost of construction materials and labor;

•

additional land acquisition costs;



•

fluctuations in foreign exchange rates;

•

litigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the
    construction site;

•

national or regional economic changes;

•

environmental or hazardous conditions; and

•

undetected soil or land conditions.

The amount of capital expenditures can vary significantly from
    year to year. In addition, actual costs could vary materially
    from our estimates if the factors listed above and our
    assumptions about the quality of materials or workmanship
    required or the cost of financing such construction were to
    change. Construction is also subject to governmental permitting
    processes which, if changed, could materially affect the
    ultimate cost.

We are
    subject to extensive governmental regulation, and our failure to
    comply with these regulations could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

Our live entertainment venue operations are subject to federal,
    state and local laws, both domestically and internationally,
    governing matters such as construction, renovation and operation
    of our venues as well as:

•

licensing and permitting;

•

human health, safety and sanitation requirements;

•

the service of food and alcoholic beverages;

•

working conditions, labor, minimum wage and hour, citizenship
    and employment laws;

•

compliance with The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and
    the United Kingdom’s Disability Discrimination Act 1995;

•

sales and other taxes and withholding of taxes;

•

historic landmark rules; and

•

environmental protection.

While we believe that our venues are in material compliance with
    these laws, we cannot predict the extent to which any future
    laws or regulations will impact our operations. The regulations
    relating to our food and support service in our venues are many
    and complex. Although we generally contract with a third-party
    vendor for these services at our operated venues, we cannot
    assure you that we or our third-party vendors are in full
    compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times
    or that we or our third-party vendors will be able to comply
    with any future laws and regulations or that we will not be held
    liable for violations by third-party vendors. Furthermore,
    additional or amended regulations in this area may significantly
    increase the cost of compliance.

We also serve alcoholic beverages at many of our venues during
    live entertainment events and must comply with applicable
    licensing laws, as well as state and local service laws,
    commonly called dram shop statutes. Dram shop statutes generally
    prohibit serving alcoholic beverages to certain persons such as
    an individual who is intoxicated or a minor. If we violate dram
    shop laws, we may be liable to third parties for the acts of the
    patron. Although we generally hire outside vendors to provide
    these services at our operated venues and regularly sponsor
    training programs designed to minimize the likelihood of such a
    situation, we cannot guarantee that intoxicated or minor patrons
    will not be served or that liability for their acts will not be
    imposed on us. There can be no assurance that additional
    regulation in this area would not limit our activities in the
    future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory
    compliance. We must also obtain and comply with the terms of
    licenses in order to sell alcoholic beverages in the states in
    which we serve alcoholic beverages.

From time to time, state and federal governmental bodies have
    proposed legislation that could have an effect on our business.
    For example, some legislatures have proposed laws in the past
    that would impose



potential liability on us and other promoters and producers of
    live entertainment events for entertainment taxes and for
    incidents that occur at our events, particularly relating to
    drugs and alcohol.

In addition, we and our venues are subject to extensive
    environmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage,
    disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous
    substances, as well as zoning and noise level restrictions which
    may affect, among other things, the hours of operations of our
    venues.

We
    face intense competition in the live entertainment industry, and
    we may not be able to maintain or increase our current revenues,
    which could adversely affect our financial
    performance.

Our business segments are in highly competitive industries, and
    we may not be able to maintain or increase our current live
    entertainment revenues. We compete in the global music and
    global theater industries, and within such industries we compete
    with other venues to book performers, and, in the markets in
    which we promote musical concerts, we face competition from
    other promoters, as well as from certain performers who promote
    their own concerts. Our competitors also compete with us for key
    employees who have relationships with popular music artists that
    have a history of being able to book such artists for concerts
    and tours. These competitors may engage in more extensive
    development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing
    campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more
    attractive offers to existing and potential artists. Our
    competitors may develop services, advertising options or
    entertainment venues that are equal or superior to those we
    provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand
    recognition than we achieve. It is possible that new competitors
    may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Other
    variables that could adversely affect our financial performance
    by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall
    revenues, the numbers of advertising customers, event
    attendance, ticket prices or profit margins include:

•

an increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which
    may lead to lower sponsorships as we attempt to retain
    advertisers or which may cause us to lose advertisers to our
    competitors offering better programs that we are unable or
    unwilling to match;

•

unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, including increased
    guarantees to performers, which we may be unwilling or unable to
    pass through to our customers;

•

our competitors may offer more favorable terms than we do in
    order to obtain agreements for new venues;

•

technological changes and innovations that we are unable to
    adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive
    entertainment alternatives than what we currently offer, which
    may lead to reduction in attendance at live events, a loss of
    ticket sales or to lower ticket prices;

•

other entertainment options available to our audiences that we
    do not offer;

•

unfavorable changes in labor conditions which may require us to
    spend more to retain and attract key employees; and

•

unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics which
    may cause us to lose audiences as people migrate to markets
    where we have a smaller presence, or which may cause sponsors to
    be unwilling to pay for sponsorship and advertising
    opportunities if the general population shifts into a less
    desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising
    perspective.

We believe that barriers to entry into the live entertainment
    promotion business are low and that certain local promoters are
    increasingly expanding the geographic scope of their operations.

We
    depend upon unionized labor for the provision of some of our
    services and any work stoppages or labor disturbances could
    disrupt our business.

The stagehands at some of our venues, and the actors, musicians
    and others involved in some of our business operations are
    subject to collective bargaining agreements. Our union
    agreements typically have a term of three years and thus
    regularly expire and require negotiation in the course of our
    business. Upon the expiration of any of our collective
    bargaining agreements, however, we may be unable to negotiate
    new



collective bargaining agreements on terms favorable to us, and
    our business operations may be interrupted as a result of labor
    disputes or difficulties and delays in the process of
    renegotiating our collective bargaining agreements. A work
    stoppage at one or more of our owned or operated venues or at
    our produced or presented events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition. We cannot predict the effect that new collective
    bargaining agreements will have on our expenses or that caps on
    agents’ fees will have on the revenues and operating income
    of our sports representation business.

We are
    dependent upon our ability to lease, acquire and develop live
    entertainment venues, and if we are unable to do so on
    acceptable terms, or at all, our results of operations could be
    adversely affected.

We require access to venues to generate revenues from live
    entertainment events. For these events, we use venues that we
    own, but we also operate a number of our live entertainment
    venues under various agreements which include leases with
    third-parties or equity or booking agreements, which are
    agreements where we contract to book the events at a venue for a
    specific period of time. Our long-term success in the live
    entertainment business will depend in part on the availability
    of venues, our ability to lease these venues and our ability to
    enter into booking agreements upon their expiration. As many of
    these agreements are with third parties over whom we have little
    or no control, we may be unable to renew these agreements or
    enter into new agreements on acceptable terms or at all, and may
    be unable to obtain favorable agreements with venues. Our
    ability to renew these agreements or obtain new agreements on
    favorable terms depends on a number of other factors, many of
    which are also beyond our control, such as national and local
    business conditions and competition from other promoters. If the
    cost of renewing these agreements is too high or the terms of
    any new agreement with a new venue are unacceptable or
    incompatible with our existing operations, we may decide to
    forego these opportunities. There can be no assurance that we
    will be able to renew these agreements on acceptable terms or at
    all, or that we will be able to obtain attractive agreements
    with substitute venues, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations.

We plan to continue to expand our operations through the
    development of live entertainment venues and the expansion of
    existing live entertainment venues, which poses a number of
    risks, including:

•

construction of live entertainment venues may result in cost
    overruns, delays or unanticipated expenses;

•

desirable sites for live entertainment venues may be unavailable
    or costly; and

•

the attractiveness of our venue locations may deteriorate over
    time.

Additionally, the market potential of live entertainment venues
    sites cannot be precisely determined, and our live entertainment
    venues may face competition in markets from unexpected sources.
    Newly constructed live entertainment venues may not perform up
    to our expectations. We face significant competition for
    potential live entertainment venue locations and for
    opportunities to acquire existing live entertainment venues.
    Because of this competition, we may be unable to add to the
    number of our live entertainment venues on terms we consider
    acceptable.

Our
    revenues depend in part on the promotional success of our
    marketing campaigns, and there can be no assurance that such
    advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns will be
    successful or will generate revenues or profits.

Similar to many companies, we spend significant amounts on
    advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns for our
    live entertainment events and other business activities. Such
    marketing activities include, among others, promotion of ticket
    sales, premium seat sales, hospitality and other services for
    our events and venues and advertising associated with our
    distribution of related souvenir merchandise and apparel. In the
    years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, we spent
    approximately 6.1% and 6.9%, respectively, of our revenues on
    marketing, including advertising, and there can be no assurance
    that such advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns
    will be successful or will generate revenues or profits.



Poor
    weather adversely affects attendance at our live entertainment
    events, which could negatively impact our financial performance
    from period to period.

We promote many live entertainment events. Weather conditions
    surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions
    and souvenirs, among other things. Poor weather conditions can
    have a material effect on our results of operations particularly
    because we promote a finite number of events. Due to weather
    conditions, we may be required to reschedule an event to the
    next available day or a different venue, which would increase
    our costs for the event and could negatively impact the
    attendance at the event as well as, food, beverage and
    merchandise sales. Poor weather can affect current periods as
    well as successive events in future periods. If we are unable to
    reschedule events due to poor weather, we are forced to refund
    the tickets for those events.

Increased
    costs associated with corporate governance compliance may
    significantly affect our results of operations.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended, require changes in our corporate governance
    and securities disclosure and compliance practices, and require
    a review of our internal control procedures. We expect these
    developments to increase our legal compliance and financial
    reporting costs. In addition, they could make it more difficult
    for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of
    directors, or qualified executive officers. Finally, director
    and officer liability insurance for public companies like us has
    become more difficult and more expensive to obtain, and we may
    be required to accept reduced coverage or incur higher costs to
    obtain coverage that is satisfactory to us and our officers or
    directors. We are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory
    developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude or
    additional costs we may incur as a result.

If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our internal control over
    financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our
    financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may
    suffer.

Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires any
    company subject to the reporting requirements of the United
    States securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its
    and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over
    financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will be
    required to document and test our internal control procedures;
    our management will be required to assess and issue a report
    concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and
    our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on
    management’s assessment of those matters. Our compliance
    with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will first be
    tested in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. The rules
    governing the standards that must be met for management to
    assess our internal control over financial reporting are new and
    complex and require significant documentation, testing and
    possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the
    rules. During the course of its testing, our management may
    identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be
    remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess
    the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our
    internal control, investor confidence in our financial results
    may weaken, and our stock price may suffer.

We may
    be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events,
    such as terrorist attacks.

The occurrence and threat of extraordinary events, such as
    terrorist attacks, intentional or unintentional mass-casualty
    incidents, natural disasters or similar events, may
    substantially decrease the use of and demand for our services
    and the attendance at live entertainment events, which may
    decrease our revenues or expose us to substantial liability. The
    terrorism and security incidents of September 11, 2001,
    military actions in Iraq, and periodic elevated terrorism alerts
    have raised numerous challenging operating factors, including
    public concerns regarding air travel, military actions and
    additional national or local catastrophic incidents, causing a
    nationwide disruption of commercial and leisure activities.



Following September 11, 2001, some artists refused to
    travel or book tours, which adversely affected our music
    business, and many people did not travel to New York City, which
    caused us to experience lower attendance levels at our
    theatrical performances playing on Broadway in New York City and
    adversely affected our theatrical business. The occurrence of
    the 2005 terrorist attacks in London, England, also caused us to
    experience lower attendance levels at our theatrical
    performances playing on the West End in London. The occurrence
    or threat of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the
    United States, contagious disease outbreaks, natural disasters
    such as earthquakes and severe floods or similar events cannot
    be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to negatively
    affect the economies of the United States and other foreign
    countries where we do business generally, specifically the
    market for live entertainment.

Risks
    Relating to Our Common Stock

We
    cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may
    trade.

The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly
    due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our
    control, including:

•

our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in
    our industry;

•

actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due
    to the seasonality of our business and other factors related to
    our business;

•

our loss or inability to obtain significant popular artists or
    theatrical productions;

•

changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance,
    interpretations or principles;

•

announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts
    or acquisitions;

•

the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or
    changes in financial estimates by analysts;

•

changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our
    ability to meet those estimates;

•

the operating and stock price performance of other comparable
    companies;

•

overall market fluctuations; and

•

general economic conditions.

In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in
    these Risk Factors could have a significant and adverse impact
    on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock
    market in general has experienced extreme price and volume
    volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating
    performance of particular companies. This volatility has had a
    significant impact on the market price of securities issued by
    many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes
    frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating
    performance of these companies. The price of our common stock
    could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing
    to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially
    reduce our stock price.

The
    price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you
    could lose all or part of the value of your common
    stock.

In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price
    and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant
    impact on the market price of securities issued by many
    companies, including companies in our industry. The changes
    frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating
    performance of these companies. The price of our common stock
    could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing
    to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially
    reduce our stock price.

In the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices
    for their securities have been subject to securities class
    action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed
    against us, regardless of the outcome,



it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of
    our management’s attention and resources. This could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.

Our
    corporate governance documents, rights agreement and Delaware
    law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that shareholders
    may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your
    shares.

Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and
    amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions
    that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire
    us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These
    provisions include restrictions on the ability of our
    shareholders to remove directors and supermajority voting
    requirements for shareholders to amend our organizational
    documents, a classified board of directors and limitations on
    action by our shareholders by written consent. Three of our nine
    directors are directors of Clear Channel Communications. In
    addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue
    preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be
    used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile
    acquirer. Delaware law, for instance, also imposes some
    restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between
    any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and
    us. Although we believe these provisions protect our
    shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics
    and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid
    by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of
    Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be
    considered beneficial by some shareholders.

Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides
    that, subject to any written agreement to the contrary, which
    agreement does not currently exist, Clear Channel Communications
    will have no duty to refrain from engaging in the same or
    similar business activities or lines of business as us or doing
    business with any of our customers or vendors or employing or
    otherwise engaging or soliciting any of our officers, directors
    or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of
    incorporation provides that if Clear Channel Communications
    acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which
    may be a corporate opportunity for both us and Clear Channel
    Communications, we will generally renounce our interest in the
    corporate opportunity. Our amended and restated certificate of
    incorporation renounces any interest or expectancy in such
    corporate opportunity that will belong to Clear Channel
    Communications. Clear Channel Communications will, to the
    fullest extent permitted by law, have satisfied its fiduciary
    duty with respect to such a corporate opportunity and will not
    be liable to us or our shareholders for breach of any fiduciary
    duty as our shareholder by reason of the fact that it acquires
    or seeks the corporate opportunity for itself, directs that
    corporate opportunity to another person or does not present that
    corporate opportunity to us. These provisions could make an
    acquisition of us less advantageous to a third-party.

Our obligation to indemnify, under certain circumstances, Clear
    Channel Communications and its affiliates pursuant to the tax
    matters agreement against tax-related liabilities, if any,
    caused by the failure of the spin-off to qualify as a tax-free
    transaction under Section 355 of the Code (including as a
    result of Section 355(e) of the Code) could deter a change
    of control of us.

We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan intended to deter
    hostile or coercive attempts to acquire us. Under the plan, if
    any person or group acquires, or begins a tender or exchange
    offer that could result in such person acquiring, 15% or more of
    our common stock, and in the case of certain Schedule 13G
    filers, 20% or more of our common stock, without approval of our
    Board of Directors under specified circumstances, our other
    shareholders have the right to purchase shares of our common
    stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial
    discount to the public market price. Therefore, the plan makes
    an acquisition much more costly to a potential acquirer.

In addition, the terms of our senior secured credit facility
    provide that the lenders can require us to repay all outstanding
    indebtedness upon a change of control, and the preferred stock
    requires one of our subsidiaries to offer to repurchase the
    preferred stock at 101% of the liquidation preference upon a
    change of control. These provisions make an acquisition more
    costly to a potential acquirer. See Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Redeemable Preferred Stock.



Risks
    Relating to Our Separation from Clear Channel
    Communications

The
    cost of certain corporate functions necessary to operate as an
    independent company, previously provided by Clear Channel
    Communications, may increase.

Prior to the Separation, our business was operated by Clear
    Channel Communications as part of its broader corporate
    organization, rather than as an independent company. Our
    historical consolidated and combined financial results reflect
    allocations of corporate expenses from Clear Channel
    Communications. Those allocations may be less than the
    comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a
    separate publicly-traded company. Clear Channel Communications
    performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not
    limited to:

•

selected human resources related functions;

•

tax administration;

•

selected legal functions (including compliance with the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), as well as external reporting;

•

treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit and
    insurance functions; and

•

selected information technology and telecommunications services.

As we implement these functions, the costs may be higher than
    previous years’ allocations or current estimates and our
    losses may increase. As a result of the Separation, neither
    Clear Channel Communications nor any of its affiliates has any
    obligation to provide these functions to us other than those
    services that Clear Channel Communications provides pursuant to
    the transition services agreement. See Item 13. Certain
    Transactions and Related Party Transactions — Our
    Relationship with Clear Channel
    Communications — Transition Services Agreement.
    If, once our transition services agreement terminates, we do not
    have in place our own systems and business functions, we do not
    have agreements with other providers of these services or we are
    not able to make these changes cost effectively, we may not be
    able to operate our business effectively and our losses may
    increase. If Clear Channel Communications does not continue to
    perform effectively the services that are required under the
    transition services agreement, we may not be able to operate our
    business effectively.

We
    have a short operating history as a separate publicly-traded
    company and our historical combined and consolidated financial
    information is not necessarily representative of the results we
    would have achieved as a separate publicly-traded company and
    may not be a reliable indicator of our future
    results.

On December 21, 2005, we were spun-off from Clear Channel
    Communications, and, therefore, we have minimal operating
    history as a separate publicly-traded company. The historical
    consolidated and combined financial information included in this

Form 10-K

does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a separate
    publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those we
    will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the
    following factors:

•

Prior to the Separation, our working capital requirements and
    capital for our general corporate purposes, including
    acquisitions and capital expenditures, were satisfied as part of
    the corporate-wide cash management policies of Clear Channel
    Communications. As a result of our separation, Clear Channel
    Communications is no longer providing us with funds to finance
    our working capital or other cash requirements. Without the
    opportunity to obtain financing from Clear Channel
    Communications, we may need to obtain additional financing from
    banks, or through public offerings or private placements of debt
    or equity securities, strategic relationships or other
    arrangements. We currently have a credit rating of B1 by
    Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. and B+ by
    Standards & Poor’s Rating Services, a division of
    The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., that is lower than Clear
    Channel Communications’ credit rating and, as a result, we
    will incur debt on terms and at interest rates that will not be
    as favorable as those generally enjoyed by Clear Channel
    Communications.



•

Prior to our separation from Clear Channel Communications, our
    business was integrated with the other businesses of Clear
    Channel Communications. We shared economies of scope and scale
    in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer
    relationships. While we have entered into short-term transition
    agreements that will govern certain commercial and other
    relationships with Clear Channel Communications after the
    Separation, those temporary arrangements may not capture the
    benefits our businesses enjoyed as a result of common ownership
    prior to the Separation. The loss of these benefits as a
    consequence of the Separation could have an adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations and financial condition.

•

Significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management,
    financing and business operations as a result of our operating
    as a company separate from Clear Channel Communications. These
    changes will result in increased costs associated with reduced
    economies of scale, stand-alone costs for services previously
    provided by Clear Channel Communications, the need for
    additional personnel to perform services previously provided by
    Clear Channel Communications and the legal, accounting,
    compliance and other costs associated with being a public
    company with equity securities listed on a national stock
    exchange. We continue to use on a temporary basis certain
    services of Clear Channel Communications under the transition
    services agreements and we may not be able to adequately replace
    the services that Clear Channel Communications provides us in a
    timely manner or on comparable terms.

The
    Separation could result in significant tax liability to our
    initial public shareholders.

Clear Channel Communications received a private letter ruling
    from the Internal Revenue Service substantially to the effect
    that the distribution of our common stock to its shareholders
    qualifies as a tax-free distribution for United States federal
    income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of
    the Code. Although a private letter ruling from the Internal
    Revenue Service generally is binding on the Internal Revenue
    Service, if the factual representations or assumptions made in
    the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any
    material respect, we will not be able to rely on the ruling.

Furthermore, the Internal Revenue Service will not rule on
    whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary
    to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code.
    Rather, the ruling is based upon representations by Clear
    Channel Communications that these conditions have been
    satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could
    invalidate the ruling. Therefore, in addition to obtaining the
    ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, Clear Channel
    Communications made it a condition to the Separation that Clear
    Channel Communications obtain an opinion of Skadden, Arps,
    Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP that the Distribution will
    qualify as a tax-free distribution for United States federal
    income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of
    the Code. The opinion relies on the ruling as to matters covered
    by the ruling. In addition, the opinion is based on, among other
    things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual
    matters made by Clear Channel Communications and us, which if
    incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect would jeopardize
    the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion
    is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts,
    and the Internal Revenue Service or the courts may not agree
    with the opinion.

Notwithstanding receipt by Clear Channel Communications of the
    ruling and opinion of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service
    could assert that the Distribution does not qualify for tax-free
    treatment for United States federal income tax purposes. If
    the Internal Revenue Service were successful in taking this
    position, our initial public shareholders could be subject to
    significant United States federal income tax liability. In
    general, our initial public shareholders could be subject to tax
    as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair
    market value of our common stock that was distributed to them.

The
    Separation could result in significant tax-related liabilities
    to us.

As discussed above, notwithstanding receipt by Clear Channel
    Communications of the ruling and the opinion of counsel, the
    Internal Revenue Service could assert that the Distribution does
    not qualify for tax-free treatment for United States federal
    income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service were
    successful in taking this position, Clear Channel Communications
    could be subject to significant United States federal



income tax liability. In general, Clear Channel Communications
    would be subject to tax as if it had sold the common stock of
    our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. In
    addition, even if the Distribution otherwise were to qualify
    under Section 355 of the Code, it may be taxable to Clear
    Channel Communications as if it had sold the common stock of our
    company in a taxable sale for its fair market value under
    Section 355(e) of the Code, if the Distribution were later
    deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions)
    pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or
    indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest in Clear
    Channel Communications or us. For this purpose, any acquisitions
    of Clear Channel Communications stock or of our stock within the
    period beginning two years before the Distribution and ending
    two years after the Distribution are presumed to be part of such
    a plan, although we or Clear Channel Communications may be able
    to rebut that presumption.

Although such corporate-level taxes, if any, resulting from a
    taxable distribution generally would be imposed on Clear Channel
    Communications, we have agreed in the tax matters agreement to
    indemnify Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates
    against tax-related liabilities, if any, caused by the failure
    of the Separation to qualify as a tax-free transaction under
    Section 355 of the Code (including as a result of
    Section 355(e) of the Code) if the failure to so qualify is
    attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to our
    stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant
    representations or covenants made by us in the tax matters
    agreement. If the failure of the Separation to qualify under
    Section 355 of the Code is for any reason for which neither
    we nor Clear Channel Communications is responsible, we and Clear
    Channel Communications have agreed in the tax matters agreement
    that we will each be responsible for 50% of the tax-related
    liabilities arising from the failure to so qualify. Clear
    Channel Communications reported a $2.4 billion capital loss
    as a result of the Separation. See Item 13. Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions — Our
    Relationship with Clear Channel
    Communications — Tax Matters Agreement for a more
    detailed discussion of the tax matters agreement between Clear
    Channel Communications and us.

We
    could be liable for income taxes owed by Clear Channel
    Communications.

Each member of the Clear Channel Communications consolidated
    group, which includes Clear Channel Communications, our company
    and our subsidiaries through December 21, 2005, and Clear
    Channel Communications’ other subsidiaries, is jointly and
    severally liable for the United States federal income tax
    liability of each other member of the consolidated group.
    Consequently, we could be liable in the event any such liability
    is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of the
    Clear Channel Communications consolidated group. Disputes or
    assessments could arise during future audits by the Internal
    Revenue Service in amounts that we cannot quantify. In addition,
    Clear Channel Communications has recognized a capital loss for
    United States federal income tax purposes in connection
    with the Separation. If Clear Channel Communications is unable
    to deduct such capital loss for United States federal income tax
    purposes as a result of any action we take following the
    Separation or our breach of a relevant representation or
    covenant made by us in the tax matters agreement, we have agreed
    in the tax matters agreement to indemnify Clear Channel
    Communications for the lost tax benefits that Clear Channel
    Communications would have otherwise realized if it were able to
    deduct this loss. See Item 13. Certain Relationships and
    Related Transactions — Our Relationship with
    Clear Channel Communications — Tax Matters
    Agreement.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.

Properties

As of December 31, 2005, we own, operate or lease 77 venues
    and 57 facilities throughout North America and 42 venues and 25
    facilities internationally. We believe our venues and facilities
    are generally well maintained and in good operating condition
    and have adequate capacity to meet our current business needs.
    We have a five-year lease ending June 30, 2010 for our
    corporate headquarters in Beverly Hills, California, used
    primarily by our executive and global music domestic operations
    management staff. In addition, we have a twenty-year lease
    ending September 30, 2020, for office space in New York,
    New York, used by our global theater domestic operations
    management staff. We also have a five-year lease ending
    September 30, 2008, for office space in London, England,
    used primarily by our global music and global theater
    international operations management staff.



Our leases are for varying terms ranging from monthly to yearly.
    These leases can be for terms of three to ten years for our
    office leases and 15 to 25 years for our venue leases, and
    many provide for renewal options. There is no significant
    concentration of venues under any one lease or subject to
    negotiation with any one landlord. We believe that an important
    part of our management activity is to negotiate suitable lease
    renewals and extensions.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings

At the United States House Judiciary Committee hearing on
    July 24, 2003, an Assistant United States Attorney General
    announced that the Department of Justice, or DOJ, was pursuing
    an antitrust inquiry concerning whether Clear Channel
    Communications, and its subsidiaries, which included us, have
    tied radio airplay or the use of certain concert venues to the
    use of our concert promotion services, in violation of antitrust
    laws. No adverse action has been taken against Clear Channel
    Communications, and its subsidiaries, pursuant to this inquiry,
    and on February 10, 2006 we were informed by the DOJ that
    this investigation had been closed.

We initiated a lawsuit in July 2003 in the State Court of
    Santa Clara County, California against the City of Mountain
    View and Shoreline Regional Park Community, seeking declaratory
    judgment, specific performance and injunctive relief and
    remedies for breach of contract, inverse condemnation and
    indemnification as a result of the defendants’ failure to
    provide parking lots and calculate rent payments in accordance
    with our lease agreement with the defendants. The defendants in
    that suit have counterclaimed against us seeking accounting and
    declaratory judgment and alleging theft, conversion, false
    claims, breach of contract, and racketeering relating to our
    payments under the lease agreement. An accounting firm engaged
    by the city issued a report dated August 30, 2005, in which
    the firm asserted that we owe the defendants $3.6 million,
    excluding interest, for rent payments for the period

1999-2004.

On September 2, 2005, the defendants issued a Notice of
    Default and Demand for Cure to us, demanding the payment of
    these amounts and certain other non-monetary demands. The
    defendants agreed to accept a bond in lieu of cash for
    satisfaction of its demand, which we filed with the court on
    October 11, 2005 as a cure under protest, pending the
    outcome of the litigation. On December 27, 2005, the court
    issued its order on the parties’ respective motions for
    summary judgment, in which our claims for breach of contract and
    indemnification were dismissed, and the defendants’
    counterclaim against us for conversion was also dismissed, with
    all remaining claims of the parties to be further adjudicated.
    Trial is currently set for April 2006.

We were among the defendants in a lawsuit filed
    September 3, 2002 by JamSports in the United States Federal
    District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The
    plaintiff alleged that we violated federal antitrust laws and
    wrongfully interfered with plaintiff’s business and
    contractual rights. On March 21, 2005, the jury rendered
    its verdict finding that we had not violated the antitrust laws,
    but had tortiously interfered with a contract which the
    plaintiff had entered into with co-defendant AMA Pro Racing and
    with the plaintiff’s prospective economic advantage. In
    connection with the findings regarding tortious interference,
    the jury awarded to the plaintiff approximately
    $17.0 million in lost profits and $73.0 million in
    punitive damages. In April, 2005, we filed a Renewed Motion for
    Judgment as a Matter of Law and Motion For a New Trial, to seek
    a judgment notwithstanding the verdict or a new trial from the
    United States District Court that tried the case. On
    August 15, 2005, the District Court granted that motion in
    part, granting judgment in favor of the defendants on the
    plaintiff’s claim for tortious interference with
    prospective economic advantage and granting the defendants a new
    trial with respect to the issue of damages on the
    plaintiff’s claim for tortious interference with a
    contract. On November 30, 2005, the District Court granted
    plaintiff’s Motion to Reconsider the August 15th ruling and
    ordered a new trial on the tortious interference with
    prospective economic advantage claim. On December 20, 2005
    the parties entered into a settlement agreement which was
    recorded in 2005 results of operations and will not have any
    impact on future operations.

We are a defendant in a lawsuit filed by Melinda Heerwagen on
    June 13, 2002 in the United States District Court for the
    Southern District of New York. The plaintiff, on behalf of a
    putative class consisting of certain concert ticket purchasers,
    alleges that anti-competitive practices for concert promotion
    services by us nationwide caused artificially high ticket
    prices. On August 11, 2003, the Court ruled in our favor,
    denying the plaintiff’s class certification motion. The
    plaintiff appealed this decision to the United States Court of
    Appeals for the Second Circuit, and oral argument was held on
    November 3, 2004. On January 10, 2006, the Second



Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the ruling in our favor by the
    District Court. On January 17, 2006, the plaintiff filed a
    Notice of Voluntary Dismissal of her action in the Southern
    District of New York.

We are aware of putative class actions filed by different named
    plaintiffs in the United States District Courts in Philadelphia,
    Miami, Los Angeles, Chicago and New Jersey:

Cooperberg v. Clear Channel Communications, Inc.,
    et al.,

Civ.

No. 2:05-cv-04492

(E.D. Pa.),

Diaz v. Clear Channel Communications, Inc.,
    et al.,

Civ.

No. 05-cv-22413

(S.D. Fla.),

Thompson v. Clear Channel Communications,
    Inc.,

Civ.

No. 2:05-cv-6704

(C.D. Cal.),

Bhatia v. Clear Channel Communications,
    Inc., et al.,

Civ.

No. 1:05-cv-05612

(N.D. Ill.), and

Young v. Clear Channel Communications,
    et al.

, Civ. Action

No. 06-277-WHW

(D.N.J.). The claims made in these actions are substantially
    similar to the claims made in the

Heerwagen

action,
    except that the geographic markets alleged are local in nature
    and the members of the putative classes are limited to
    individuals who purchased tickets to concerts in the relevant
    geographic markets alleged. We have filed our answers in all but
    the Chicago and New Jersey actions, and we have denied
    liability. We intend to vigorously defend all claims in all of
    the actions. Trial has been set only in the Miami action, for
    January 2007.

We were among the defendants in a lawsuit by Keith Beccia on
    July 10, 2002 and pending in the Morris County Superior
    Court in New Jersey. Plaintiff alleged tortious interference
    with a contract, plus breach of contract, breach of covenant of
    good faith and fair dealing and unfair competition, and
    interference with prospective economic advantage. On
    November 17, 2003, plaintiff filed a statement of damages
    asserting that his estimated compensatory damages were
    $3.9 million exclusive of losses for salary increases,
    value of benefits, and lost profits associated with the contract
    at issue. Plaintiff was also seeking unliquidated punitive
    damages. On December 14, 2005, the parties entered into a
    settlement agreement. This settlement, which does not constitute
    an admission of wrongdoing or liability by us, was recorded in
    2005 results of operations and will not have any impact on
    future operations.

We were a defendant in an arbitration proceeding brought by Eric
    Nederlander and Louis Raizin before the American Arbitration
    Association, New York, New York in March 2004 in which the
    claimants alleged that they were entitled to certain earn-out
    payments pursuant to a purchase agreement in connection with the
    construction and operation of an amphitheater owned by us. On
    December 21, 2005, the parties entered into a settlement
    agreement. The settlement is on terms that are not material to
    our operating results and does not constitute an admission of
    wrongdoing or liability by us.

NETworks Presentations, LLC, a joint venture between us and
    Gentry & Associates, Inc., is among the defendants in a
    lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the
    Central District of California on September 22, 2005 by
    Clifford Kellas. The plaintiff claims that he was subject to
    sexual harassment, gender discrimination and unlawful
    retaliation in violation of Title VII of the 1964 Civil
    Rights Act. He seeks $5.0 million in general damages and
    $5.0 million in punitive damages plus legal costs and
    prejudgment interest. No trial has yet been set, and we intend
    to vigorously defend all claims.

From time to time, we are involved in other legal proceedings
    arising in the ordinary course of our business, including
    proceedings and claims based upon violations of antitrust laws
    and tortious interference, which could cause us to incur
    significant expenses. We also have been the subject of personal
    injury and wrongful death claims relating to accidents at our
    venues in connection with our operations. As required, we have
    accrued our estimate of the probable costs for the resolution of
    these claims. These estimates have been developed in
    consultation with counsel and are based upon an analysis of
    potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and
    settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future
    results of operations for any particular period could be
    materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the
    effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. In
    addition, under our agreements with Clear Channel
    Communications, we have assumed and will indemnify Clear Channel
    Communications for liabilities related to our business for which
    they are a party in the defense.

Item 4.

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our common stock was listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
    the symbol “LYV” on December 21, 2005. There were
    2,532 shareholders of record as of February 28, 2006.
    This figure does not include an estimate of the indeterminate
    number of beneficial holders whose shares may be held of record
    by brokerage firms and clearing agencies. The following table
    presents the high and low closing prices of the common stock on
    the New York Stock Exchange during the calendar quarter
    indicated and the dividends declared during such quarter.

Common Stock Market
    Price

Dividends

High

Low

Declared


Fourth Quarter (commencing
    December 21, 2005)

$

14.00

$

10.55

$

——

Dividend
    Policy

We presently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to
    finance the expansion of our business. Therefore, we do not
    expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.
    Moreover, the terms of our senior secured credit facility and
    the designations of our preferred stock limit the amount of
    funds which we will have available to declare and distribute as
    dividends on our common stock. Payment of future cash dividends,
    if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors in
    accordance with applicable law after taking into account various
    factors, including our financial condition, operating results,
    current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and
    contractual restrictions with respect to the payment of
    dividends.

Purchases
    of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated
    Purchases

On December 22, 2005, we publicly announced that our Board
    of Directors authorized a $150.0 million share repurchase
    program effective immediately. The repurchase program is
    authorized through December 31, 2006, although prior to
    such time the program may be suspended or discontinued at any
    time. During the ten days ended December 31, 2005, we
    repurchased the following shares:

Total Number of

Maximum Dollar

Shares Purchased as

Value of Shares that

Total Number of

Average Price

Part of Publicly

May Yet Be Purchased

Period

Shares Repurchased

Paid per Share

Announced Program

Under the Program

December 22 through
    December 31

1,506,900

$

11.95

1,506,900

$

132,020,429

As of February 28, 2006, 3.4 million shares had been
    repurchased for an aggregate purchase price of
    $42.7 million, including commissions and fees, under the
    repurchase program.

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities

Prior to the Separation, on December 21, 2005, pursuant to
    an exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the
    Securities Act of 1933, a subsidiary of ours sold
    200,000 shares of Series A (voting) mandatorily
    Redeemable Preferred Stock to third-party institutional
    investors for $100 per share ($20.0 million aggregate
    offering price) and issued 200,000 shares of Series B
    (non-voting) mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Stock to Clear
    Channel Communications, in exchange for all of the outstanding
    stock of one of our subsidiaries, who then sold this
    Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock to third-party
    institutional investors. We did not receive any of the proceeds
    from the sale of the Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock
    sold by Clear Channel Communications. All proceeds from the
    issuance of Series A Redeemable Preferred Stock, which we
    received, were used to repay intercompany debt owed to Clear
    Channel Communications. The principal underwriter was Goldman
    Sachs. The aggregate underwriting discounts and commissions were
    $0.5 million. For more information regarding this issuance
    of preferred stock, see Item 1.
    Business — Recent Developments and Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations- Liquidity and Capital Resources.



Item 6.

Selected
    Financial Data

Year Ended
    December 31,(1)






(Unaudited)

(In thousands, except per share
    data)

Results of Operations
    Data:

Revenue

$

2,543,668

$

2,473,319

$

2,707,902

$

2,806,128

$

2,936,845

Operating Expenses:

Divisional operating expenses

2,386,504

2,302,707

2,506,635

2,645,293

2,829,832

Depreciation and amortization

299,343

64,836

63,436

64,095

64,622

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    assets

(1,278

)

(15,241

)

(978

)

6,371

4,859

Corporate expenses

49,294

26,101

30,820

31,386

50,715

Operating income (loss)

(190,195

)

94,916

107,989

58,983

(13,183

)

Interest expense

9,476

3,998

2,788

3,119

6,059

Interest expense with Clear Channel
    Communications

65,501

58,608

41,415

42,355

46,437

Equity in earnings (loss) of
    nonconsolidated affiliates

6,690

(212

)

1,357

2,906

(276

)

Other income
    (expense) — net

3,213


3,224

(1,690

)

(3,176

)

Income (loss) before income taxes
    and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle

(255,269

)

32,430

68,367

14,725

(69,131

)

Income tax benefit (expense):

Current

44,112

(40,102

)

68,272

55,946

53,025

Deferred

(43,581

)

11,103

(79,607

)

(54,411

)

(114,513

)

Income (loss) before cumulative
    effect of a change in accounting principle

(254,738

)

3,431

57,032

16,260

(130,619

)

Cumulative effect of a change in
    accounting principle, net of tax of $198,640(2)

—

(3,932,007

)

—

—

—

Net income (loss)

$

(254,738

)

$

(3,928,576

)

$

57,032

$

16,260

$

(130,619

)

Basic and diluted income (loss)
    before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle per
    common share

$

(1.96

)

Cash dividends per share

$

—

As of
    December 31,






(Unaudited)

(In thousands)

Balance Sheet Data:

Total assets

$

5,391,088

$

1,518,644

$

1,495,715

$

1,478,706

$

1,776,584

Long-term debt, including current
    maturities

$

1,112,842

$

622,831

$

617,838

$

650,675

$

366,841

Redeemable preferred stock

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

40,000

Business/Shareholders’ equity

$

3,701,975

$

230,914

$

188,283

$

156,976

$

636,700

(1)

Acquisitions and dispositions significantly impact the
    comparability of the historical consolidated financial data
    reflected in this schedule of Selected Financial Data.

(2)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for the year
    ended December 31, 2002, related to impairment of goodwill
    recognized in accordance with the adoption of Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets.

The Selected Financial Data should be read in conjunction with
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis.



Item 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations

You should read the following discussion of our financial
    condition and results of operations together with the audited
    consolidated and combined financial statements and notes to the
    financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.
    This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve
    risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not
    historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations,
    estimates, assumptions and projections about our industry,
    business and future financial results. Our actual results could
    differ materially from the results contemplated by these
    forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including
    those discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors and other
    sections in this Annual Report.

Executive
    Overview

Our global music business experienced an increase in
    international revenues primarily due to acquisitions of
    promoters and increased ticket prices and attendance at our
    international festivals. This was partially offset by a decline
    in the number of events across our domestic amphitheaters as
    compared to 2004 which resulted in a decline in total
    attendance. This segment was also affected by increased
    litigation expenses, severance and other reorganization costs.

Our global theater business expanded its venue network during
    2005 through acquisitions, but overall, experienced reduced
    attendance and show profits. This segment was also impacted by
    increased write-offs of advances on theater productions,
    severance and other reorganization costs during 2005.

Our other operations business experienced an increase in
    divisional operating expenses due to increased litigation
    expenses as well as severance and other reorganization costs.
    The impact of these items was offset by growth in the motor
    sports business due to additional demand in existing markets and
    new demand in markets where arenas and stadiums have been built.

Basis of
    Presentation

The combined financial statements include amounts prior to the
    Separation that are comprised of businesses included in the
    consolidated financial statements and accounting records of
    Clear Channel Communications, using the historical basis of
    assets and liabilities of the entertainment business. The
    international assets of the Company were contributed by Clear
    Channel Communications through a non-cash capital contribution
    to the Company of $383.1 million in 2002. Management
    believes the assumptions underlying the combined financial
    statements are reasonable. However, the combined financial
    statements included herein may not reflect what our results of
    operations, financial position and cash flows would have been
    had we operated as a separate, stand-alone entity during the
    periods presented or what our results of operations, financial
    position and cash flows will be in the future. Clear Channel
    Communications’ net investment in the Company is shown as
    Business equity in lieu of Shareholders’ equity in the
    combined financial statements prior to the Separation. On
    December 21, 2005, we separated from Clear Channel
    Communications. As a result, we recognized the par value and
    additional

paid-in-capital

in connection with the issuance of our common stock in exchange
    for the net assets of Clear Channel Communications’
    entertainment business contributed at that time, and we began
    accumulating retained earnings and currency translation
    adjustments upon completion of the Separation. Beginning on
    December 21, 2005, our consolidated financial statements
    include all accounts of the Company and its majority owned
    subsidiaries.



Introduction

Management’s discussion and analysis, or MD&A, of our
    financial condition and results of operations is provided as a
    supplement to the audited annual financial statements and
    footnotes thereto included elsewhere herein to help provide an
    understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial
    condition and results of our operations. The information
    included in MD&A should be read in conjunction with the
    annual financial statements. MD&A is organized as follows:

•

Business overview.

This section provides a
    general description of our business, as well as other matters
    that we believe are important in understanding our results of
    operations and financial condition and in anticipating future
    trends.

•

Consolidated and combined results of
    operations.

This section provides an analysis of
    our results of operations for the years ended December 31,
    2005, 2004 and 2003. Our discussion is presented on both a
    consolidated and combined and segment basis. Our reportable
    operating segments are global music, global theater and other.
    Approximately 69% of our revenue is derived in North America,
    with the remainder being derived internationally, primarily in
    the United Kingdom, Sweden and Holland. Since a significant
    portion of our business is conducted in foreign markets,
    principally Europe, management looks at the operating results
    from our foreign operations on a constant dollar basis, which
    allows for comparison of operations independent of foreign
    exchange movements. Corporate expenses, interest expense, equity
    in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates, other income
    (expense) — net and income taxes are managed on a
    total company basis and are, therefore, included only in our
    discussion of consolidated and combined results.

•

Liquidity and capital resources.

This section
    provides a discussion of our financial condition as of
    December 31, 2005 and 2004, as well as an analysis of our
    cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.
    The discussion of our financial condition and liquidity includes
    summaries of (i) our primary sources of liquidity and
    (ii) our outstanding debt and commitments (both firm and
    contingent) that existed at December 31, 2005.

•

Seasonality.

This section discusses the
    seasonal performance of our global music, global theater and
    other segments.

•

Market risk management.

This section discusses
    how we manage exposure to potential losses arising from adverse
    changes in foreign currency exchange and interest rates.

•

Recent accounting pronouncements and critical accounting
    policies.

This section discusses accounting policies
    considered to be important to our financial condition and
    results of operations, which require significant judgment and
    estimates on the part of management in their application. In
    addition, all of our significant accounting policies, including
    our critical accounting policies, are summarized in
    Note A — Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies to our consolidated and combined financial statements
    included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data of this Annual Report.

Business
    Overview

We believe we are one of the world’s largest diversified
    venue operators for, and promoters and producers of, live
    entertainment events. For the year ended December 31, 2005,
    we promoted, produced or hosted over 29,500 events, including
    music concerts, theatrical performances, specialized motor
    sports and other events, with total attendance nearing
    60 million. In addition, we believe we operate one of the
    largest networks of venues used principally for music concerts
    and theatrical performances in the United States and Europe. As
    of December 31, 2005, we owned or operated 119 venues,
    consisting of 77 domestic and 42 international venues. These
    venues include 37 amphitheaters, 61 theaters, 15 clubs,
    four arenas and two festival sites. In addition, through equity,
    booking or similar arrangements we have the right to book events
    at 34 additional venues.



Our
    Business Segments

We operate in two reportable business segments: global
    music and global theater. In addition, we operate in the
    specialized motor sports, sports representation and other
    businesses, which are included under “other.”

Global Music.

Our global music business
    principally involves the promotion or production of live music
    shows and tours by music artists in our owned and operated
    venues and in rented third-party venues. For the year ended
    December 31, 2005, our global music business generated
    approximately $2.3 billion, or 79%, of our total revenues.
    We promoted or produced over 10,000 events in 2005, including
    tours for artists such as U2, Paul McCartney, Dave Matthews Band
    and Toby Keith. In addition, we produced several large festivals
    in Europe, including Rock Werchter in Belgium, the North Sea
    Jazz Festival in Holland and the Reading Festival in the United
    Kingdom. While our global music business operates year-round, we
    experience higher revenues during the second and third quarters
    due to the seasonal nature of our amphitheaters and
    international festivals, which are primarily used during or
    occur in May through September.

Global Theater.

Our global theater business
    presents and produces touring and other theatrical performances.
    Our touring theatrical performances consist primarily of
    revivals of previous commercial successes and new productions of
    theatrical performances playing on Broadway in New York City or
    the West End in London. For the year ended December 31,
    2005, our global theater business generated approximately
    $317.0 million, or 11%, of our total revenues. In 2005, we
    presented or produced over 14,000 theatrical performances
    of productions such as

The Producers, The Lion King, Mamma
    Mia!, Hairspray, Movin’ Out, Phantom of the Opera

and

Chicago.

We pre-sell tickets for our touring shows in
    approximately 46 touring markets through

Broadway Across
    America

, one of the largest subscription series in the
    United States and Canada. While our global theater business
    operates year-round, we experience higher revenues during
    September through April, which coincides with the theatrical
    touring season.

Other.

We believe we are one of the largest
    promoters and producers of specialized motor sports events,
    primarily in North America. In 2005, we held over 500 events in
    stadiums, arenas and other venues, including monster truck
    shows, supercross races, motocross races, freestyle motocross
    events and motorcycle road racing. In addition, we own numerous
    trademarked properties, including monster trucks such as

Grave
    Digger

tm

and

Blue
    Thunder

tm

,
    which generate additional licensing revenues. While our
    specialized motor sports business operates year-round, we
    experience higher revenues during January through March, which
    is the period when a larger number of specialized motor sports
    events occur.

We also provide integrated sports marketing and management
    services, primarily for professional athletes. Our marketing and
    management services generally involve our negotiation of player
    contracts with professional sports teams and of endorsement
    contracts with major brands. As of December 31, 2005, we
    had approximately 600 clients, including Kobe Bryant
    (basketball), David Ortiz (baseball), Tom Lehman (golf), Andy
    Roddick (tennis), Roy E. Williams (football) and Steven Gerrard
    (soccer).

We also promote and produce other live entertainment events,
    including family shows, such as

Dora the Explorer

and

Blue’s Clues.

In addition, we distribute television
    shows and DVDs, including

Motley Crue: Carnival of Sins

and

Ozzfest:

th

Year
    Anniversary Tour.

For the year ended December 31, 2005, businesses included
    under “other” generated approximately
    $298.5 million, or 10%, of our total revenues.

Our
    Business Activities

We principally act in the following capacities, performing one,
    some or all of these roles in connection with our events and
    tours:

Venue Operation.

As a venue operator, we
    contract with promoters to rent our venues for events and
    provide related services such as concessions, merchandising,
    parking, security, ushering and ticket-taking. We generate
    revenues primarily from rental income, ticket service charges,
    premium seating and



venue sponsorships, as well as sharing in percentages of
    concessions, merchandise and parking. Revenues generated from
    venue operations, which are partially driven by attendance,
    typically have a higher margin than promotion or production
    revenues and therefore typically have a more direct relationship
    to operating income.

Sponsorships and Advertising.

We actively
    pursue the sale of national and local sponsorships and placement
    of advertising, including signage, promotional programs, naming
    of subscription series and tour sponsorships. Many of our venues
    also have

name-in-title

sponsorship programs. We believe national sponsorships allow us
    to maximize our network of venues and to arrange multi-venue
    branding opportunities for advertisers. Our national sponsorship
    programs have included companies such as American Express,
    Anheuser Busch and

Coca-Cola.

Our local and venue-focused sponsorships include venue signage,
    promotional programs,

on-site

activation, hospitality and tickets, and are derived from a
    variety of companies across various industry categories.
    Revenues generated from sponsorships and advertising typically
    have a significantly higher margin than promotion or production
    revenues and therefore typically have a more direct relationship
    to operating income.

Promotion.

As a promoter, we typically book
    performers, arrange performances and tours, secure venues,
    provide for third-party production services, sell tickets and
    advertise events to attract audiences. We earn revenues
    primarily from the sale of tickets and pay performers under one
    of several formulas, including a fixed guaranteed amount

and/or

a
    percentage of ticket sales. For each event, we either use a
    venue we own or operate, or rent a third-party venue. In our
    global theater business, we generally refer to promotion as
    presentation. Revenues related to promotion activities represent
    the majority of our consolidated and combined revenues. These
    revenues are generally related to the volume of ticket sales and
    ticket prices. Event costs, included in divisional operating
    expenses, such as artist and production service expenses, are
    typically substantial in relation to the revenues. As a result,
    significant increases or decreases in promotion revenue do not
    typically result in comparable changes to operating income.

Production.

As a producer, we generally
    develop event content, hire directors and artistic talent,
    develop sets and costumes, and coordinate the actual
    performances of the events. We produce tours on a global,
    national and regional basis. We generate revenues from fixed
    producer fees and by sharing in a percentage of event or tour
    profits primarily related to the sale of tickets, merchandise
    and event and tour sponsorships. These production revenues are
    generally related to the size and profitability of the
    production. Production costs, included in divisional operating
    expenses, are typically substantial in relation to the revenues.
    As a result, significant increases or decreases in production
    revenue do not typically result in comparable changes to
    operating income.



Consolidated
    and Combined Results of Operations

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands)

Revenue

$

2,936,845

$

2,806,128

$

2,707,902

Operating expenses:

Divisional operating expenses

2,829,832

2,645,293

2,506,635

Depreciation and amortization

64,622

64,095

63,436

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    assets

4,859

6,371

(978

)

Corporate expenses

50,715

31,386

30,820

Operating income (loss)

(13,183

)

58,983

107,989

Interest expense

6,059

3,119

2,788

Interest expense with Clear
    Channel Communications

46,437

42,355

41,415

Equity in earnings (loss) of
    nonconsolidated affiliates

(276

)

2,906

1,357

Other income
    (expense) — net

(3,176

)

(1,690

)

3,224

Income (loss) before income taxes

(69,131

)

14,725

68,367

Income tax (expense) benefit:

Current

53,025

55,946

68,272

Deferred

(114,513

)

(54,411

)

(79,607

)

Net income (loss)

$

(130,619

)

$

16,260

$

57,032

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash provided by (used in):

Operating activities

$

13,913

$

119,898

$

138,713

Investing activities

$

(106,049

)

$

(84,076

)

$

(51,960

)

Financing activities

$

345,438

$

23,254

$

(56,894

)

Non-cash compensation expense, which is based on an allocation
    from Clear Channel Communications and is related to issuance of
    Clear Channel Communications’ stock awards, is included in
    corporate expenses in our statement of operations.

Revenue

Our revenue increased $130.7 million, or 5%, in fiscal year
    2005 as compared to fiscal year 2004 primarily due to increases
    in our global music, global theater and other operations of
    $120.3 million, $3.0 million and $7.4 million,
    respectively. Included in the fiscal year 2005 revenue is
    approximately $7.3 million from decreases in foreign
    exchange rates as compared to the same period of 2004.

Our revenue increased $98.2 million, or 4%, in fiscal year
    2004 as compared to fiscal year 2003 due to an increase in
    global music revenue of $131.2 million. Partially
    offsetting this increase were declines in revenue from our other
    operations and global theater of $28.7 million and
    $4.2 million, respectively. Included in the fiscal year
    2004 revenue is approximately $74.3 million, or 76% of the
    total increase in revenues, from increases in foreign exchange
    rates as compared to the same period of 2003.

Divisional
    Operating Expenses

Our divisional operating expenses increased $184.5 million,
    or 7%, in fiscal year 2005 as compared to fiscal year 2004 due
    to increases in our global music, global theater and other
    operations of $144.2 million, $24.8 million and
    $15.5 million, respectively. Divisional operating expenses
    for 2005 include $28.3 million in



expenses related to a reorganization of business units and
    severance costs associated with reductions in personnel,
    $22.8 million of increased litigation contingencies and
    expenses, and $11.3 million in write-offs of advances on
    certain music projects and theater productions. The increase in
    fiscal year 2005 divisional operating expenses was partially
    offset by approximately $5.9 million of decreases in
    foreign exchange rates as compared to the same period of 2004.

Our divisional operating expenses increased $138.7 million,
    or 6%, in fiscal year 2004 as compared to fiscal year 2003 due
    to a $157.8 million increase in global music divisional
    operating expenses, partially offset by a decrease in divisional
    operating expenses from our other operations and global theater
    of $15.2 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
    Included in the fiscal year 2004 divisional operating expenses
    is approximately $68.0 million from increases in foreign
    exchange rates as compared to the same period of 2003.

Loss
    (Gain) on sale of operating assets

Our loss on sale of operating assets decreased $1.5 million
    during the fiscal year 2005 as compared to the fiscal year 2004.
    During the second quarter of 2004, we recorded a loss on the
    sale of our international leisure center operations. During the
    fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded a smaller loss on the sale
    of certain exhibition and music publishing assets.

Our loss on sale of operating assets increased $7.3 million
    during 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to the sale of our
    international leisure center operations during the second
    quarter of 2004.

Corporate
    Expenses

Corporate expenses increased $19.3 million, or 62%, during
    the fiscal year 2005 as compared to the fiscal year 2004 as the
    result of a $16.6 million increase in litigation
    contingencies and expenses as well as $4.7 million related
    to severance payments during 2005.

Corporate expenses increased $0.6 million, or 2%, in the
    fiscal year ended 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due to
    increases in litigation and rent expenses, partially offset by
    declines in performance-based bonus expense for the period.

Interest
    Expense

Interest expense increased $2.9 million during the fiscal
    year 2005 as compared to the fiscal year 2004 primarily due to
    $1.1 million of interest related to a contingent purchase
    price payment related to a prior acquisition and
    $0.7 million of interest expense related to our term loan
    and redeemable preferred stock.

Interest
    Expense with Clear Channel Communications

The increases and decreases in interest expense with Clear
    Channel Communications are directly related to the respective
    increase or decrease in average debt outstanding as the rate
    charged remained relatively consistent throughout the periods.
    As of December 21, 2005, this debt was repaid to or
    contributed to our capital by Clear Channel Communications.

Our weighted average cost of debt during all periods was 7.0%.
    Our debt balances owed to Clear Channel Communications as of
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were:

As of
    December 31,




(In millions)

$

—

$

628.9

$

595.2

Equity
    in Earnings (Loss) of Nonconsolidated Affiliates

Equity in earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates
    decreased $3.2 million during the fiscal year 2005 as
    compared to the fiscal year 2004 primarily as a result of
    impairments and losses in several of our nonconsolidated other
    operations affiliates during 2005.



For the fiscal year ended 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003,
    equity in earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates increased
    $1.5 million primarily as a result of no impairments and
    fewer losses during 2004 in our nonconsolidated other operations
    affiliates as compared to the same period of 2003.

Other
    Income (Expense) — Net

The principal components of other income
    (expense) — net, for the applicable periods, were:

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In millions)

Interest income

$

2.5

$

3.2

$

6.9

Minority interest expense

(5.2

)

(3.3

)

(3.3

)

Other, net

(.5

)

(1.6

)

(0.4

)

Other income
    (expense) — net

$

(3.2

)

$

(1.7

)

$

3.2

Interest income decreased $3.7 million during fiscal year
    2004 as compared to 2003 due primarily to receipt of interest
    related to notes receivable that were repaid during 2003.

Minority interest expense increased $1.9 million during
    fiscal year 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to the
    acquisition of a 50.1% interest in Mean Fiddler during the third
    quarter of 2005.

Income
    Taxes

Current tax benefit for the fiscal year 2005 decreased
    $2.9 million as compared to the fiscal year 2004. Deferred
    tax expense increased $60.1 million in 2005 as compared to
    2004. The increase in deferred tax expense is primarily due to
    the $77.3 million valuation reserve recorded in the fourth
    quarter of 2005 and subsequent to our separation from Clear
    Channel Communications related to our deferred tax asset. As a
    subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications, taxable losses of
    our subsidiaries were able to be utilized under a consolidated
    income tax return with Clear Channel Communications. After the
    Separation, our deferred tax asset had to be evaluated on a
    stand-alone basis based on prior historical taxable income.
    Since we have had a history of taxable losses, we recorded a
    valuation allowance against this asset.

Current tax benefit decreased $12.3 million in 2004 as
    compared to 2003. As a result of the favorable resolution of
    certain tax contingencies, current tax benefit for the year
    ended December 31, 2004 was reduced approximately
    $11.0 million. The decrease in deferred tax expense of
    $25.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as
    compared to December 31, 2003 was due primarily to
    additional depreciation expense deductions taken for tax
    purposes associated with a change in our tax lives of certain
    assets. The additional depreciation expense resulted in an
    increase in deferred tax expense in 2003.

Global
    Music Results of Operations

Our global music operating results were as follows:

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands)

Revenue

$

2,321,302

$

2,201,007

$

2,069,857

Divisional operating expenses

2,226,165

2,081,945

1,924,132

Depreciation and amortization

39,421

37,043

35,262

Gain on sale of operating assets

(806

)

(3,438

)

(863

)

Operating income

$

56,522

$

85,457

$

111,326



Fiscal
    Year 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year 2004

Global music revenue increased $120.3 million, or 5%,
    during 2005 as compared to 2004 driven primarily by an increase
    of $126.7 million in our international revenues, partially
    offset by a decline in our domestic revenues. The increase in
    our international revenues is primarily due to the acquisition
    of international promotion companies during the second half of
    2004, the acquisition of a festival promoter and venue operator
    in 2005, an increase in promotion revenue related to shows with
    higher ticket prices and an increase in the attendance at our
    international festivals. Our international music revenue
    increase was partially offset by a $6.4 million decrease in
    domestic revenues during 2005. The decline in our domestic music
    revenue was primarily the result of a reduction in the number of
    domestic events, which reduced attendance, and lower ticket
    prices. While the total attendance declined at our domestic
    amphitheaters, the average per show attendance at these venues
    actually increased 7%. We believe that this increase in average
    per show attendance was driven by a decrease in the average
    ticket price by 6% during 2005.

Global music divisional operating expenses increased
    $144.2 million, or 7%, during 2005 as compared to 2004 due
    to increases in our international and domestic divisional
    operation expenses of $117.6 million and $26.6 million
    respectively. The increase in divisional operating expenses is
    due primarily to the acquisition of international promotion
    companies during the second half of 2004, the acquisition of an
    international festival promoter and venue operator in 2005, an
    increase in international promotion activity and a
    $5.9 million write-off of advances on certain domestic
    music projects. In addition, in 2005 we had $11.3 million
    of higher litigation contingencies and expenses and
    $12.2 million of costs related to severance and
    reorganization of the business.

Depreciation and amortization increased by $2.4 million, or
    6%, in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to accelerating
    depreciation on assets for which we have determined the useful
    life to be shorter than originally expected.

Fiscal
    Year 2004 Compared to Fiscal Year 2003

Global music revenue increased $131.2 million, or 6%,
    during 2004 as compared to 2003. Approximately
    $57.6 million, or 44% of the increase, was attributable to
    foreign exchange rate increases. The increase was also driven by
    an increased number of events and attendance in our
    international operations. Significant acts for 2004 included
    Madonna and the Italian tour of Vasco Rossi. In addition,
    revenue from global music sponsorships and premium seat sales
    increased in 2004 by $15.9 million, or 12%, over 2003.
    Although domestic music revenue increased, we had fewer domestic
    amphitheater events in 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to
    an unusually high number of show cancellations in 2004 as
    compared to 2003. Attendance for 2004 in our owned and operated
    amphitheaters was lower than 2003, partially due to these
    cancellations. In general, the domestic music industry suffered
    a setback in 2004 and according to Pollstar experienced a
    decline of approximately 3%, as compared to 2003, in the number
    of tickets sold for the top 100 tours.

Global music divisional operating expenses increased
    $157.8 million, or 8%, during 2004 as compared to 2003.
    Approximately $53.3 million, or 34% of the increase, was
    attributable to foreign exchange rate increases. The increase
    also relates to variable promotion, production and venue costs
    associated with the number and type of events in 2004 as
    compared to 2003. In addition, domestic music experienced higher
    talent and production costs primarily due to higher artist
    guarantees without a proportional increase in revenue. Domestic
    music also completed a restructuring of operations in the fourth
    quarter of 2004, resulting in a staff reduction and an increase
    in severance costs.

Depreciation and amortization increased by $1.8 million, or
    5%, in 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to the completion
    of new venues placed in service in late 2003 and in 2004.



Global
    Theater Results of Operations

Our global theater operating results were as follows:

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands)

Revenue

$

317,038

$

313,974

$

318,219

Divisional operating expenses

303,098

278,327

282,320

Depreciation and amortization

15,236

14,709

13,161

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    assets


(58

)


Operating income (loss)

$

(1,298

)

$

20,996

$

22,714

Fiscal
    Year 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year 2004

Global theater revenue increased $3.1 million, or 1%,
    during 2005 as compared to 2004. Approximately
    $1.6 million, or 52% of the increase, was attributable to
    foreign exchange rate increases. In addition, global theater
    expanded its venue network during 2005 with the acquisition of
    four theaters in Spain, which resulted in an increase in
    revenues.

Global theater divisional operating expenses increased
    $24.8 million, or 9%, during 2005 as compared to 2004.
    Approximately $1.6 million, or 6% of the increase, was
    attributable to foreign exchange rate increases. The remaining
    increase primarily relates to $10.5 million of severance
    and other reorganization costs, $1.3 million of increased
    litigation contingencies and expenses, $5.4 million of
    write-offs of advances on certain domestic theater productions
    and costs related to the new theaters in Spain.

Fiscal
    Year 2004 Compared to Fiscal Year 2003

Global theater revenues decreased $4.2 million, or 1%,
    during 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to fewer domestic
    event dates and the replacement of a number of significant
    international production investments in 2003 with smaller
    interests in international productions in 2004 where we receive
    only investment earnings rather than consolidated production
    results. These declines were partially offset by an increase in
    foreign exchange rates of approximately $10.4 million in
    2004 as compared to 2003, as well as the positive impact to
    revenues associated with our opening of the renovated
    France-Merrick Center for Performing Arts and the Boston Opera
    House during 2004.

Global theater divisional operating expenses declined
    $4.0 million, or 1%, during 2004 as compared to 2003
    primarily due to a decrease in global theater revenues during
    2004 as compared to 2003. Included in this variance are foreign
    exchange rate increases of approximately $8.9 million.

Global theater depreciation and amortization expense increased
    $1.5 million, or 12%, during 2004 as compared to 2003
    primarily due to foreign exchange rate increases of
    $1.0 million and the completion and opening of the Boston
    Opera House during 2004.



Other
    Results of Operations

Our other operating results were as follows:

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands)

Revenue

$

298,505

$

291,147

$

319,826

Divisional operating expenses

300,569

285,021

300,183

Depreciation and amortization

5,969

7,406

9,626

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    assets

3,598

9,867

(139

)

Operating income (loss)

$

(11,631

)

$

(11,147

)

$

10,156

Fiscal
    Year 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year 2004

Other revenues increased $7.4 million, or 3%, during 2005
    as compared to 2004. The revenue increase is partially due to
    growth of existing and creation of new touring productions and
    increased sales of DVDs. Growth in the revenue from our
    specialized motor sports events resulted from a slight increase
    in attendance and ticket prices. These increases were offset by
    decreases related to the sale of the international leisure
    center business during the second quarter of 2004 as well as the
    popular

Titanic: The Artifact Exhibit

completing its run
    during the second quarter of 2004.

Other divisional operating expenses increased
    $15.5 million, or 5%, during 2005 as compared to 2004. The
    increase relates to the growth in our specialized motor sports
    events and touring productions, $5.6 million of severance
    and other reorganization costs and a $10.2 million increase
    in litigation contingencies and expenses in 2005 as compared to
    2004. These increases were offset by decreases related to the
    sale of the international leisure center business during the
    second quarter of 2004 as well as the popular

Titanic: The
    Artifact Exhibit

completing its run during the second
    quarter of 2004.

Other divisional depreciation and amortization expense decreased
    $1.4 million, or 19%, for 2005 as compared to 2004
    primarily as a result of the sale of the international leisure
    center business during the second quarter of 2004.

Other loss on sale of operating assets decreased
    $6.3 million during 2005 as compared to 2004 due primarily
    to the sale of our international leisure center operations
    during the second quarter of 2004 offset by the sale of certain
    exhibition and music publishing assets during the fourth quarter
    of 2005.

Fiscal
    Year 2004 Compared to Fiscal Year 2003

Other revenues decreased $28.7 million, or 9%, during 2004
    as compared to 2003. Foreign exchange rate increases of
    approximately $6.3 million were offset by decreases
    relating to the divestiture of certain non-core businesses,
    including our international leisure center business, during the
    second quarter of 2004 and a television production business
    during 2003. In addition, our exhibitions group experienced a
    reduction in revenues as the popular

Titanic: The Artifact
    Exhibit

completed its run during the second quarter of 2004
    after a full year of operations in 2003. These revenue declines
    were partially offset by an increase in the amount of
    sponsorship sales during 2004.

Other divisional operating expenses decreased
    $15.2 million, or 5%, during 2004 as compared to 2003.
    Foreign exchange rate increases of approximately
    $5.8 million were offset by decreases relating to the
    non-core divestitures and conclusion of

Titanic: The Artifact
    Exhibit

as mentioned above.

Other divisional depreciation and amortization expense decreased
    $2.2 million, or 23%, during 2004 as compared to 2003
    primarily due to the divestiture of our international leisure
    center operations during the second quarter of 2004.

Other loss on sale of operating assets increased
    $10.0 million during 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due
    to the sale of our international leisure center operations
    during the second quarter of 2004.



Reconciliation
    of Segment Operating Income (Loss)

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands)

Global Music

$

56,522

$

85,457

$

111,326

Global Theater

(1,298

)

20,996

22,714

Other

(11,631

)

(11,147

)

10,156

Corporate

(56,776

)

(36,323

)

(36,207

)

Consolidated and Combined
    operating income (loss)

$

(13,183

)

$

58,983

$

107,989

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources

Our working capital requirements and capital for our general
    corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital
    expenditures, have historically been funded primarily through an
    intercompany promissory note with Clear Channel Communications.
    Subsequent to our separation from Clear Channel Communications,
    our working capital and other cash requirements are funded from
    operations or from borrowings under our senior secured credit
    facility described below. Our cash is currently managed on a
    world-wide basis. Repatriation of some of these funds could be
    subject to delay and could have potential tax consequences,
    principally with respect to withholding taxes paid in foreign
    jurisdictions which do not give rise to a tax benefit in the
    United States due to our current inability to recognize the
    related deferred tax assets.

Our historical balance sheet reflects cash and cash equivalents
    of $403.7 million and short-term and long-term debt of
    $366.8 million at December 31, 2005, and cash and cash
    equivalents of $179.1 million and short-term and long-term
    debt of $650.7 million at December 31, 2004. The
    increase in cash and cash equivalents during 2005 as compared to
    2004 is due to $107.0 million of cash remaining from our
    senior secured credit facility and higher cash in our
    international operations due to improved results of operations
    and timing of events.

We may need to incur additional debt or issue equity to make
    strategic acquisitions or investments. We cannot assure that
    such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or
    that such financing will be available at all. Our ability to
    issue additional equity may be constrained because our issuance
    of additional stock may cause the Distribution to be taxable
    under section 355(e) of the Code, and, under the tax
    matters agreement, we would be required to indemnify Clear
    Channel Communications against the tax, if any. We may make
    significant acquisitions in the near term, subject to
    limitations imposed by our financing documents, market
    conditions and the tax matters agreement.

We generally receive cash related to ticket revenues in advance
    of the event, which is recorded in deferred income until the
    event occurs. With the exception of some upfront costs and
    artist deposits, which are recorded in prepaid expenses until
    the event occurs, we pay the majority of event related expenses
    at or after the event.

Our intra-year cash fluctuations are impacted by the seasonality
    of our various businesses. Examples of seasonal effects include
    our global music business, which reports the majority of its
    revenues in the second and third quarters, while our global
    theater business reports the majority of its revenues in the
    first, second and fourth quarters of the year. Cash inflows and
    outflows depend on the timing of event-related payments and
    generally occur prior to the event. See
    “— Seasonality” below. We believe that we
    have sufficient financial flexibility to fund these fluctuations
    and to access the global capital markets on satisfactory terms
    and in adequate amounts, although there can be no assurance that
    this will be the case. We expect cash flow from operations and
    borrowings under our senior secured credit facility to satisfy
    working capital, capital expenditure and debt service
    requirements for at least the succeeding year.



Sources
    of Cash

Senior
    Secured Credit Facility

As of December 31, 2005, we had a $610.0 million
    senior secured credit facility consisting of a
    $325.0 million


/


-year term loan and a $285.0 million


/


-year revolving credit facility. The


/


-year revolving credit facility provides for borrowings up to
    the amount of the facility with sub-limits of up to
    $235.0 million to be available for the issuance of letters
    of credit and up to $100.0 million to be available for
    borrowings in foreign currencies. The term loan portion of the
    credit facility matures in June 2013. We are required to make
    minimum quarterly principal repayments under the term loan of
    approximately $3.2 million per year through March 2013,
    with the remaining balance due at maturity. We are required to
    prepay the outstanding term loan, subject to certain exceptions
    and conditions, from certain asset sale proceeds and casualty
    and condemnation proceeds that we do not reinvest within a

365-day

period or from additional debt issuance proceeds. The revolving
    credit portion of the credit facility matures in June 2012. At
    December 31, 2005, the outstanding balances on the term
    loan and revolving credit facility were $325.0 million and
    $0, respectively. Taking into account letters of credit of
    $46.4 million, $238.6 million was available for future
    borrowings.

As of February 28, 2006, the outstanding balances on the
    term loan and revolving credit facility were $325.0 million
    and $0, respectively. Taking into account letters of credit of
    $45.7 million, $239.3 million was available for future
    borrowings.

Borrowings under the term loan portion of the credit facility
    bear interest at per annum floating rates equal, at our option,
    to either (a) the base rate (which is the prime rate
    offered by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.) plus 1.25% or
    (b) Adjusted LIBOR plus 2.25%. Borrowings under the
    revolving portion of the credit facility bear interest at per
    annum floating rates equal, at our option, to either
    (a) the base rate (which is the prime rate offered by
    JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ) plus an applicable margin or
    (b) Adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin. Sterling and
    Euro-denominated borrowings under the revolving portion of the
    credit facility currently bear interest at per annum floating
    rates equal to either Adjusted LIBOR or Adjusted EURIBOR,
    respectively, plus an applicable margin. The revolving credit
    facility margins are subject to change based upon the amount of
    leverage for the previous calendar quarter. At December 31,
    2005, the applicable margins for base rate, Adjusted LIBOR and
    EURIBOR borrowings were 0.75%, 1.75% and 1.75% respectively.
    Under the terms of the credit facility, we are required to enter
    into an interest rate swap for a minimum of 50% of the
    outstanding debt for a minimum of three years.

In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal under
    the credit facility, we are required to pay a commitment fee to
    the lenders under the revolving credit facility in respect of
    the unutilized commitments. As of December 31, 2005, the
    commitment fee rate was .375%. We also are required to pay
    customary letter of credit fees, as necessary.

The senior secured credit facility contains a number of
    covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to
    incur additional debt, pay dividends and make distributions,
    make certain investments and acquisitions, repurchase our stock
    and prepay certain indebtedness, create liens, enter into
    agreements with affiliates, modify the nature of our business,
    enter into sale-leaseback transactions, transfer and sell
    material assets, and merge or consolidate.

Redeemable
    Preferred Stock

As part of the Separation, a subsidiary of ours sold
    200,000 shares of Series A (voting) mandatorily
    Redeemable Preferred Stock to third-party investors and issued
    200,000 shares of Series B (non-voting) mandatorily
    Redeemable Preferred Stock to Clear Channel Communications who
    then sold this Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock to
    third-party investors. We did not receive any of the proceeds
    from the sale of the Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock
    sold by Clear Channel Communications. As of December 31,
    2005, we had 200,000 shares of Series A Redeemable
    Preferred Stock and 200,000 shares of Series B
    Redeemable Preferred Stock outstanding (collectively, the
    “Preferred Stock”) with an aggregate liquidation
    preference of $40.0 million. The Preferred Stock accrues
    dividends at 13% per annum and is mandatorily redeemable on



December 21, 2011, although we are obligated to make an
    offer to repurchase the Preferred Stock at 101% of the
    liquidation preference in the event of a change of control. The
    certificate of incorporation governing the Preferred Stock
    contains a number of covenants that, among other things,
    restrict our ability to incur additional debt, issue certain
    equity securities, create liens, merge or consolidate, modify
    the nature of our business, make certain investments and
    acquisitions, transfer and sell material assets, enter into
    sale-leaseback transactions, enter into swap agreements, pay
    dividends and make distributions, and enter into agreements with
    affiliates. If we default under any of these covenants, we will
    have to pay additional dividends.

Guarantees
    of Third Party Obligations

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, we guaranteed the debt of
    third parties of approximately $1.9 million and
    $3.5 million, respectively, primarily related to maximum
    credit limits on employee credit cards and, in 2004, this
    included a guarantee of a bank line of credit for working
    capital needs of a nonconsolidated affiliate.

Debt
    Covenants

The significant covenants on our $610.0 million,


/


-year, multi-currency credit facility relate to total leverage,
    senior leverage, interest coverage, and capital expenditures
    contained and defined in the credit agreement. The leverage
    ratio covenant requires us to maintain a ratio of consolidated
    total indebtedness minus unrestricted cash and cash equivalents
    (both as defined by the credit agreement) to consolidated
    earnings-before-interest-taxes-depreciation-and-amortization (as
    defined by the credit agreement, “Consolidated
    EBITDA”) of less than 4.5x through December 31, 2008,
    and less than 4.0x thereafter, provided that aggregated
    subordinated indebtedness is less than $25.0 million. The
    senior leverage covenant, which is only applicable provided
    aggregate subordinated indebtedness is greater than
    $25.0 million, requires us to maintain a ratio of
    consolidated senior indebtedness to Consolidated EBITDA of less
    than 3.0x. The interest coverage covenant requires us to
    maintain a minimum ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to cash interest
    expense (as defined by the credit agreement) of 2.5x. The
    capital expenditure covenant limits annual capital expenditures
    (as defined by the credit agreement) to $125.0 million or
    less through December 31, 2006, and $110.0 million or
    less thereafter. In the event that we do not meet these
    covenants, we are considered to be in default on the credit
    facilities at which time the credit facilities may become
    immediately due. This credit facility contains a cross default
    provision that would be triggered if we were to default on any
    other indebtedness greater than $10.0 million.

Our other indebtedness does not contain provisions that would
    make it a default if we were to default on our credit facilities.

The fee we pay on borrowings on our $325.0 million,


/


-year, senior term loan fee is 2.25% above LIBOR. The fees we
    pay on our $285.0 million,


/


-year multi-currency revolving credit facility depend on our
    total leverage ratio. Based on our current total leverage ratio,
    our fees on borrowings are 1.75% above LIBOR and are .375% on
    the total remaining availability on the revolving credit
    facility. In the event our leverage ratio improves, the fees on
    revolving credit borrowings and the unused availability decline
    gradually to .75% and .25%, respectively, at a total leverage
    ratio of less than, or equal to, 1.25x.

We believe there are no other agreements that contain provisions
    that trigger an event of default upon a change in long-term debt
    ratings that would have a material impact on our financial
    statements.

At December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all debt
    covenants. We expect to remain in compliance throughout 2006.

Uses of
    Cash

Acquisitions

During the year ended December 31, 2005 our global music
    segment and other operations made cash payments of
    $8.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively, related
    to various earn-outs and deferred purchase price consideration
    on prior year acquisitions.



Capital
    Expenditures

Venue operations is a capital intensive business, requiring
    consistent investment in our existing venues in order to address
    audience and artist expectations, technological industry
    advances and various federal and state regulations.

We categorize capital outlays into maintenance expenditures and
    new venue expenditures. Maintenance expenditures are associated
    with the renewal and improvement of existing venues and, to a
    lesser extent, capital expenditures related to information
    systems and administrative offices. New venue expenditures
    relate to either the construction of new venues or major
    renovations to existing buildings that are being added to our
    venue network. Capital expenditures typically increase during
    periods when venues are not in operation.

Our capital expenditures have consisted of the following:

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In millions)

Maintenance expenditures

$

56.3

$

31.4

$

34.2

New venue expenditures

36.2

42.0

35.7

Total capital expenditures

$

92.5

$

73.4

$

69.9

Maintenance expenditures for 2005 include higher expenditures
    relating to capital spent to improve the audience experience at
    our owned and operated amphitheaters. We expect this higher
    level of maintenance expenditures to continue in 2006.

Of the capital expenditures above, remaining in construction in
    progress at December 31, 2005 was $39.9 million
    primarily consisting of development or renovation costs
    associated with three venues. We will incur additional costs in
    2006 related to the completion of these venues.

Company
    Share Repurchase Program

During the year ended December 31, 2005, our Board of
    Directors authorized a $150 million share repurchase
    program effective immediately. The repurchase program is
    authorized through December 31, 2006, although prior to
    such time the program may be suspended or discontinued at any
    time. As of December 31, 2005, we have repurchased
    1.5 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate
    purchase price of $18.0 million, including commissions and
    fees. As of February 28, 2006, we have repurchased an
    additional 1.9 million shares of our common stock for an
    aggregate purchase price of $24.7 million, including
    commissions and fees.

Summary

Our primary short-term liquidity needs are to fund general
    working capital requirements and maintenance expenditures while
    our long-term liquidity needs are primarily associated with new
    venue expenditures. Our primary sources of funds for our
    short-term liquidity needs will be cash flows from operations
    and borrowings under our credit facility, while our long-term
    sources of funds will be from cash from operations, long-term
    bank borrowings and other debt or equity financing.

Contractual
    Obligations and Commitments

Firm
    Commitments

In addition to the scheduled maturities on our debt, we have
    future cash obligations under various types of contracts. We
    lease office space, certain equipment and the venues used in our
    entertainment operations under long-term operating leases. Some
    of our lease agreements contain renewal options and annual
    rental escalation clauses (generally tied to the consumer
    price index), as well as provisions for our payment of utilities
    and maintenance. We also have minimum payments associated with
    noncancelable contracts related to our operations such as artist
    guarantee contracts and theatrical production payments. As part
    of our ongoing



capital projects, we will enter into construction related
    commitments for future capital expenditure work. The scheduled
    maturities discussed below represent contractual obligations as
    of December 31, 2005 and thus do not represent all expected
    expenditures for those periods.

The scheduled maturities of our long-term debt outstanding,
    future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable lease
    agreements, minimum payments under other noncancelable contracts
    and capital expenditures commitments as of December 31,
    2005 are as follows:

Payments Due by Period

2011 and

Total


2007 — 2008

2009 — 2010

thereafter

(In thousands)

Long-term debt obligations,
    including current maturities

Term loan

$

325,000

$

3,250

$

6,500

$

6,500

$

308,750

Other long-term debt

41,841

22,455

2,615

2,932

13,839

Preferred stock

40,000

—

—

—

40,000

Estimated interest payments(1)

260,538

36,273

71,448

69,941

82,876

Non-cancelable operating lease
    obligations

1,012,827

64,339

114,681

89,653

744,154

Non-cancelable contracts(2)

247,083

190,200

27,932

13,527

15,424

Capital expenditures

26,711

23,461


2,500

—

Other long-term liabilities(3)

Total

$

1,954,000

$

339,978

$

223,926

$

185,053

$

1,205,043

Minimum rentals of $114.1 million to be received in years
    2006 through 2020 under non-cancelable subleases are excluded
    from the commitment amounts in the above table.

Cash
    Flows

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash provided by (used in):

Operating activities

$

13,913

$

119,898

$

138,713

Investing activities

$

(106,049

)

$

(84,076

)

$

(51,960

)

Financing activities

$

345,438

$

23,254

$

(56,894

)

Operating
    Activities

Year
    Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2004

Cash provided by operations was $13.9 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2005 as compared to cash provided by
    operations of $119.9 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2004. The $106.0 million decrease in cash
    provided by operations resulted from a decrease in net income,
    adjusted for non-cash charges related to deferred income tax
    expense, and changes in the event related operating accounts
    which are



dependent on the number and size of events on-going at year end.
    We had prepaid more expenses in 2005, including artist deposits,
    and accrued more expenses, based on the size and timing of the
    upcoming tours.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2003

Cash provided by operations was $119.9 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2004 as compared to cash provided by
    operations of $138.7 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2003. The $18.8 million decrease in cash
    provided by operations resulted primarily from a decrease in net
    income.

Investing
    Activities

Year
    Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2004

Cash used in investing activities was $106.0 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to cash used in
    investing activities of $84.1 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2004. The $21.9 million increase in cash
    used in investing activities was primarily due to an increase in
    capital expenditures of $19.1 million and an increase in
    advances to nonconsolidated affiliates of $4.3 million.
    These increases were partially offset by less acquisition
    related payments in 2005.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2003

Cash used in investing activities was $84.1 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2004, compared to cash used in
    investing activities of $52.0 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2003. The $32.1 million increase in cash
    used in investing activities was primarily due to more
    acquisition-related payments and higher advances to
    nonconsolidated affiliates in 2004 and the collection of a note
    receivable in 2003.

Financing
    Activities

Historically, we had funded our cash needs through an
    intercompany promissory note with Clear Channel Communications.
    The intercompany promissory note functioned as part of a sweep
    account that allowed excess operating cash generated by our
    domestic operations to be transferred to Clear Channel
    Communications, generally on a daily basis. As we had cash
    needs, they were funded from Clear Channel Communications
    through this account.

Following our separation from Clear Channel Communications, we
    expect to fund our cash needs through cash from operations,
    borrowings under our revolving credit facility and available
    cash and cash equivalents.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2004

Cash provided by financing activities was $345.4 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to cash
    provided by financing activities of $23.3 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2004. The $322.1 million
    increase in cash provided by financing activities is a result of
    proceeds received from our term loan and issuance of redeemable
    preferred stock, offset by repurchases of our common stock.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2003

Cash provided by financing activities was $23.3 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to cash used in
    financing activities of $56.9 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2003. The $80.2 million increase in cash
    provided by financing activities is a result of more cash being
    provided by Clear Channel Communications for 2004, primarily due
    to higher cash used in investing activities in 2004 from more
    acquisition payments. This is also due to more cash generated
    from operations in our international businesses during 2004
    which does not sweep to Clear Channel Communications as often as
    our domestic operations.

Seasonality

For financial statement purposes, our global music segment
    typically experiences higher operating income in the second and
    third quarters as our outdoor venues and international festivals
    are primarily used in or



occur during May through September. In addition, the timing of
    tours of top grossing acts can impact comparability of quarterly
    results year over year, although annual results may not be
    impacted. Our global theater segment typically experiences its
    higher operating income during the first, second and fourth
    quarters of the calendar year as the theatrical touring season
    typically runs from September through April.

Cash flows from global music and global theater typically have a
    slightly different seasonality as advance payments are often
    made for artist performance fees and theatrical production costs
    in advance of the date the related event tickets go on sale.
    These artist fees and production costs are expensed when the
    event occurs. Once tickets for an event go on sale, we begin to
    receive payments from ticket sales, still in advance of when the
    event occurs. We record these ticket sales as revenue when the
    event occurs.

We expect these trends to continue in the future. See
    Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our operations are
    seasonal and our results of operations vary from quarter to
    quarter, so our financial performance in certain financial
    quarters may not be indicative of or comparable to our financial
    performance in subsequent financial quarters.

Market
    Risk

We are exposed to market risks arising from changes in market
    rates and prices, including movements in foreign currency
    exchange rates and interest rates.

Foreign
    Currency Risk

We have operations in countries throughout the world. The
    financial results of our foreign operations are measured in
    their local currencies. As a result, our financial results could
    be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign
    markets in which we have operations. Our foreign operations
    reported operating income of $60.6 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2005. Currently, we do not operate in
    any hyper-inflationary countries. We estimate that a 10% change
    in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign
    currencies would change our operating income for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 by $6.1 million. As of
    December 31, 2005, our primary foreign exchange exposure
    included the Euro, British Pound, Swedish Kroner and Canadian
    Dollar.

This analysis does not consider the implication such currency
    fluctuations could have on the overall economic activity that
    could exist in such an environment in the United States or the
    foreign countries or on the results of operations of these
    foreign entities.

Occasionally, we will use forward currency contracts to reduce
    our exposure to foreign currency risk. The principal objective
    of such contracts is to minimize the risks

and/or

costs
    associated with artist fee commitments. At December 31,
    2005, we do not have any outstanding forward currency contracts.

Interest
    Rate Risk

Our market risk is also affected by changes in interest rates.
    We had $366.8 million total debt outstanding as of
    December 31, 2005, of which $325.1 million was
    variable rate debt.

Based on the amount of our floating-rate debt as of
    December 31, 2005, each 25 basis point increase or
    decrease in interest rates would increase or decrease our annual
    interest expense and cash outlay by approximately
    $0.8 million. This potential increase or decrease is based
    on the simplified assumption that the level of floating-rate
    debt remains constant with an immediate

across-the-board

increase or decrease as of December 31, 2005 with no
    subsequent change in rates for the remainder of the period.

Beginning in 2006, we intend to use interest rate swaps and
    other derivative instruments to reduce our exposure to market
    risk from changes in interest rates. The principal objective of
    such contracts is to minimize the risks

and/or

costs
    associated with our variable rate debt. We do not intend to hold
    or issue interest rate swaps for trading purposes.



Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 153,

Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an
    amendment of APB Opinion No. 29

(“Statement 153”). Statement 153
    eliminates the APB Opinion No. 29 exception for nonmonetary
    exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with an
    exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have
    commercial substance. Statement 153 is effective for
    financial statements for fiscal years beginning after
    June 15, 2005. Earlier application is permitted for
    nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods
    beginning after the date of issuance. The provisions of
    Statement 153 should be applied prospectively. We intend to
    adopt Statement 153 for our fiscal year beginning
    January 1, 2006 and we do not believe that adoption will
    materially impact our financial position or results of
    operations.

On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),

Share-Based Payment

(“Statement 123(R)”),
    which is a revision of Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation

(“Statement 123”).
    Statement 123(R) supersedes Accounting Principles Board
    (“APB”) Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock
    Issued to Employees

(“APB 25”), and amends
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95,

Statement of Cash Flows.

Generally, the approach in
    Statement 123(R) is similar to the approach described in
    Statement 123. However, Statement 123(R) requires all
    share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee
    stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on
    their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an
    alternative. Statement 123(R) is effective for financial
    statements for the first interim or annual period beginning
    after June 15, 2005. Early adoption is permitted in periods
    in which financial statements have not yet been issued. In April
    2005, the SEC issued a press release announcing that it would
    provide for phased-in implementation guidance for
    Statement 123(R). The SEC would require that registrants
    that are not small business issuers adopt
    Statement 123(R)’s fair value method of accounting for
    share-based payments to employees no later than the beginning of
    the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. We
    intend to adopt Statement 123(R) on January 1, 2006
    using the modified prospective method.

As permitted by Statement 123, we currently account for
    share-based payments to employees using APB 25 intrinsic
    value method and, as such, generally recognize no compensation
    cost for employee stock options. Accordingly, the adoption of
    Statement 123(R)’s fair value method will have a
    significant impact on our results of operations, although it
    will have no impact on our overall financial position. We are
    unable to quantify the impact of adoption of
    Statement 123(R) at this time because it will depend on
    levels of share-based payments granted in the future. However,
    had we adopted Statement 123(R) in prior periods, the
    impact of that standard would have approximated the impact of
    Statement 123 as described in the disclosure of pro forma
    net income and earnings per share in Note A of the Notes to
    Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included
    elsewhere herein. Statement 123(R)also requires the
    benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation
    cost to be reported as a financing cash flow. This requirement
    will increase net financing cash flows in periods after
    adoption. We cannot estimate what those amounts will be in the
    future because they depend on, among other things, the levels of
    share-based payments granted in the future.

In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”) issued Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 107

Share-Based Payment

(“SAB 107”). SAB 107 expresses the SEC
    staff’s views regarding the interaction between
    Statement 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations and
    provides the staff’s views regarding the valuation of
    share-based payment arrangements for public companies. In
    particular, SAB 107 provides guidance related to
    share-based payment transactions with nonemployees, the
    transition from nonpublic to public entity status, valuation
    methods (including assumptions such as expected volatility and
    expected term), the accounting for certain redeemable financial
    instruments issued under share-based payment arrangements, the
    classification of compensation expense, non-GAAP financial
    measures, first time adoption of Statement 123(R) in an
    interim period, capitalization of compensation cost related to
    share-based payment arrangements, the accounting for income tax
    effects of share-based payment arrangements upon adoption of
    Statement 123(R)and the modification of employee share
    options prior to adoption of Statement 123(R).

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 154,

Accounting Changes and Error
    Corrections

(“Statement 154”).
    Statement 154 replaces APB Opinion No. 20,

Accounting



Changes

, and FASB Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 3,

Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim
    Financial Statements

, and changes the requirements for the
    accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting
    principle. Statement 154 applies to all voluntary changes
    in accounting principle. It also applies to changes required by
    an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the
    pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions.
    When a pronouncement includes specific transition provisions,
    those provisions should be followed. Statement 154 is
    effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made
    in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We will
    adopt Statement 154 on January 1, 2006 and do not
    anticipate adoption to materially impact our financial position
    or results of operations.

In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”)
    issued

EITF 05-6,

Determining the Amortization Period of Leasehold Improvements

(“EITF 05-6”).

EITF 05-6

requires that assets recognized under capital leases generally
    be amortized in a manner consistent with the lessee’s
    normal depreciation policy except that the amortization period
    is limited to the lease term (which includes renewal periods
    that are reasonably assured).

EITF 05-6

also addresses the determination of the amortization period for
    leasehold improvements that are purchased subsequent to the
    inception of the lease. Leasehold improvements acquired in a
    business combination or purchased subsequent to the inception of
    the lease should be amortized over the lesser of the useful life
    of the asset or the lease term that includes reasonably assured
    lease renewals as determined on the date of the acquisition of
    the leasehold improvement. We adopted

EITF 05-6

on July 1, 2005 which did not materially impact our
    financial position or results of operations.

In October 2005, the FASB issued Staff Position

13-1

(“FSP

13-1”).

FSP

13-1

requires rental costs associated with ground or building
    operating leases that are incurred during a construction period
    be recognized as rental expense. The guidance in FSP

13-1

shall
    be applied to the first reporting period beginning after
    December 15, 2005. We will adopt FSP

13-1

on
    January 1, 2006 and do not anticipate adoption to
    materially impact our financial position or results of
    operations.

In February 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
    No. FAS 123(R) — 4,

Contingent Cash
    Settlement

(“FSP
    FAS 123(R) — 4”). FSP
    FAS 123(R) — 4 requires companies to
    classify employee stock options and similar instruments with
    contingent cash settlement features as equity awards under
    Statement 123(R)provided that (1) the contingent event
    that permits or requires cash settlement is not considered
    probable of occurring and is not within the control of the
    employee; and (2) the award includes no other features that
    would require liability classification. We will adopt FSP
    FAS 123(R) — 4 on January 1, 2006 and
    do not anticipate adoption to materially impact our financial
    position or results of operations.

Critical
    Accounting Policies

The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with
    Generally Accepted Accounting Principles requires management to
    make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the
    reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of
    contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
    statements and the reported amount of expenses during the
    reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates
    that are based on historical experience and on various other
    assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
    circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis
    for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
    liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not
    readily apparent from other sources. Because future events and
    their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual
    results could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and
    such difference could be material. Our significant accounting
    policies are discussed in Note A, Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated and Combined
    Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data. Management believes that the
    following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in
    fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial
    results, and they require management’s most difficult,
    subjective or complex judgments, resulting from the need to make
    estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently
    uncertain. The following narrative describes these critical
    accounting estimates, the judgments and assumptions and the
    effect if actual results differ from these assumptions.



Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts

We evaluate the collectibility of our accounts receivable based
    on a combination of factors. Generally, we record specific
    reserves to reduce the amounts recorded to what we believe will
    be collected when a customer’s account ages beyond typical
    collection patterns, or we become aware of a customer’s
    inability to meet its financial obligations. To a lesser extent,
    we recognize reserves based on historical experience of bad
    debts as a percentage of revenues for applicable businesses,
    adjusted for relative improvements or deteriorations in the
    agings.

If our agings were to improve or deteriorate resulting in a 10%
    change in our allowance, it is estimated that our bad debt
    expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 would have
    changed by $1.0 million and our net income for the same
    period would have changed by $1.0 million.

Long-Lived
    Assets

Long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, are
    reviewed for impairment when events and circumstances indicate
    that depreciable and amortizable long-lived assets might be
    impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be
    generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount of
    those assets. When specific assets are determined to be
    unrecoverable, the cost basis of the asset is reduced to reflect
    the current fair market value.

We use various assumptions in determining the current fair
    market value of these assets, including future expected cash
    flows and discount rates, as well as future salvage values. Our
    impairment loss calculations require us to apply judgment in
    estimating future cash flows, including forecasting useful lives
    of the assets and selecting the discount rate that reflects the
    risk inherent in future cash flows.

If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and
    judgments used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair
    values, we may be exposed to future impairment losses that could
    be material to our results of operations.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the
    fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business
    combinations. We review goodwill for potential impairment
    annually using the income approach to determine the fair value
    of our reporting units. The fair value of our reporting units is
    used to apply value to the net assets of each reporting unit. To
    the extent that the carrying amount of net assets would exceed
    the fair value, an impairment charge may be required to be
    recorded.

The income approach we use for valuing goodwill involves
    estimating future cash flows expected to be generated from the
    related assets, discounted to their present value using a
    risk-adjusted discount rate. Terminal values are also estimated
    and discounted to their present value.

As a result of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

,
    on January 1, 2002, we recorded a non-cash, net of tax,
    goodwill impairment charge of approximately $3.9 billion.
    As required by Statement 142, a subsequent impairment test
    was performed at October 1, 2002, which resulted in no
    additional impairment charge. The non-cash impairment of our
    goodwill was generally caused by unfavorable economic
    conditions, which persisted throughout 2001. These conditions
    adversely impacted the cash flow projections used to determine
    the fair value of each reporting unit at January 1, 2002,
    which resulted in the non-cash impairment charge of a portion of
    our goodwill. We may incur impairment charges in future periods
    under Statement 142 to the extent we do not achieve our
    expected cash flow growth rates, and to the extent that market
    values decrease and long-term interest rates increase.

Revenue
    Recognition

Revenue from the presentation and production of an event is
    recognized on the date of the performance. Revenue collected in
    advance of the event is recorded as deferred income until the
    event occurs. Revenue



collected from sponsorships and other revenue, which is not
    related to any single event, is classified as deferred income
    and generally amortized over the operating season or the term of
    the contract.

We believe that the credit risk with respect to trade
    receivables is limited due to the large number and the
    geographic diversification of our customers.

Barter
    Transactions

Barter transactions represent the exchange of display space or
    tickets for advertising, merchandise or services. These
    transactions are generally recorded at the lower of the fair
    market value of the display space or tickets relinquished or the
    fair value of the advertising, merchandise or services received.
    Revenue is recognized on barter and trade transactions when the
    advertisements are displayed or the event occurs for which the
    tickets are exchanged. Expenses are recorded when the
    advertising, merchandise or service is received or when the
    event occurs. Barter and trade revenues for the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, were approximately
    $34.9 million, $45.1 million and $33.4 million,
    respectively, and are included in total revenues. Barter and
    trade expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
    and 2003, were approximately $34.8 million,
    $44.5 million and $32.7 million, respectively, and are
    included in divisional operating expenses. These transactions
    relate to each of our segments and generally occur relatively
    evenly throughout the year.

Litigation
    Accruals

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, as
    required, have accrued our estimate of the probable costs for
    the resolution of these claims. Management’s estimates used
    have been developed in consultation with counsel and are based
    upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of
    litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however,
    that future results of operations for any particular period
    could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or
    the effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings.

Income
    Taxes

We account for income taxes using the liability method. Under
    this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined
    based on differences between financial reporting bases and tax
    bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the
    enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the
    periods in which the deferred tax asset or liability is expected
    to be realized or settled. Deferred tax assets are reduced by
    valuation allowances if we believe it is more likely than not
    that some portion or the entire asset will not be realized. As
    all earnings from our foreign operations are permanently
    reinvested and not distributed, our income tax provision does
    not include additional United States taxes on foreign
    operations. It is not practical to determine the amount of
    federal income taxes, if any, that might become due in the event
    that the earnings were distributed.

Our provision for income taxes has been computed on the basis
    that we file separate consolidated income tax returns with our
    subsidiaries. Prior to the Separation, our operations were
    included in a consolidated federal income tax return filed by
    Clear Channel Communications. Certain tax liabilities owed by us
    were remitted to the appropriate taxing authority by Clear
    Channel Communications and were accounted for as non-cash
    capital contributions by Clear Channel Communications to us. Tax
    benefits recognized on employee stock option exercises were
    retained by Clear Channel Communications. Subsequent to the
    Separation, we will file separate consolidated income tax
    returns.

We compute our deferred income tax provision using the liability
    method in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes.

Our
    provision for income taxes is further disclosed in
    Note I — Income Taxes included in Item 8.
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.



Inflation

Inflation has affected our performance in terms of higher costs
    such as employee compensation and equipment. Although the exact
    impact of inflation is indeterminable, we believe we have
    reduced the impact of these higher costs by increasing ticket
    prices where possible and reducing other costs.

Ratio of
    Earnings to Fixed Charges

The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is as follows:

Year Ended
    December 31,






0.41

1.11

1.67

1.29

*

*

For the year ended December 31, 2001, fixed charges
    exceeded earnings before income taxes and fixed charges by
    $262.0 million.

The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a total
    enterprise basis. Earnings represent income from continuing
    operations before income taxes less equity in undistributed net
    income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates plus fixed charges.
    Fixed charges represent interest, amortization of debt discount
    and expense, and the estimated interest portion of rental
    charges.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Required information is within Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Market Risk.



Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Live Nation, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated and combined
    balance sheets of Live Nation, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
    December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated
    and combined statements of operations,
    business/shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. Our
    audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
    the Index at Item 15(a) 2. These financial statements
    and the schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
    financial statements and the schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an
    audit of the Company’s internal control over financial
    reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control
    over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit
    procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not
    for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
    the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
    Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated and
    combined financial position of Live Nation, Inc. and
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
    consolidated and combined results of their operations and their
    cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
    related financial statement schedule, when considered in
    relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
    presents fairly in all material respects the information set
    forth therein.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Houston, Texas

February 28, 2006



CONSOLIDATED
    AND COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS

December 31,



(In thousands except

share data)

ASSETS

CURRENT ASSETS

Cash and cash equivalents

$

403,716

$

179,137

Accounts receivable, less allowance
    of $9,518 in 2005 and $10,174 in 2004

190,207

167,868

Prepaid expenses

115,055

83,546

Other current assets

46,714

42,006

Total Current Assets

755,692

472,557

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Land, buildings and improvements

910,926

880,881

Furniture and other equipment

166,004

155,563

Construction in progress

39,856

14,917

1,116,786

1,051,361

Less accumulated depreciation

307,867

258,045

808,919

793,316

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Definite-lived intangibles, net

12,351

14,838

Goodwill

137,110

44,813

OTHER ASSETS

Notes receivable, less allowance of
    $745 in 2005 and $545 in 2004

4,720

7,110

Investments in, and advances to,
    nonconsolidated affiliates

30,660

27,002

Deferred tax asset, net

—

97,317

Other assets

27,132

21,753

Total Assets

$

1,776,584

$

1,478,706

LIABILITIES AND
    BUSINESS/SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

CURRENT LIABILITIES

Accounts payable

$

37,654

$

31,440

Deferred income

232,754

184,413

Accrued expenses

405,507

362,278

Current portion of long-term debt

25,705

1,214

Total Current
    Liabilities

701,620

579,345

Long-term debt

341,136

20,564

Debt with Clear Channel
    Communications

—

628,897

Other long-term liabilities

30,766

88,997

Minority interest

26,362

3,927

Series A and Series B
    redeemable preferred stock

40,000

—

Commitments and contingent
    liabilities (Note G)

BUSINESS/SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Preferred
    stock — Series A Junior Participating,
    $.01 par value; 20,000,000 shares authorized; no
    shares issued and outstanding

—

—

Preferred stock, $.01 par
    value; 30,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and
    outstanding

—

—

Common stock, $.01 par value;
    450,000,000 shares authorized; 67,174,912 shares issued


—

Additional paid-in capital

748,011

—

Retained deficit

(87,563

)

—

Owner’s net investment

—

170,497

Cost of shares (1,506,900) held in
    treasury

(18,003

)

—

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(6,417

)

(13,521

)

Total
    Business/Shareholders’ Equity

636,700

156,976

Total Liabilities and
    Business/Shareholders’ Equity

$

1,776,584

$

1,478,706

See Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements



CONSOLIDATED
    AND COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands except per share
    data)

Revenue

$

2,936,845

$

2,806,128

$

2,707,902

Operating expenses:

Divisional operating expenses

2,829,832

2,645,293

2,506,635

Depreciation and amortization

64,622

64,095

63,436

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    assets

4,859

6,371

(978

)

Corporate expenses

50,715

31,386

30,820

Operating income (loss)

(13,183

)

58,983

107,989

Interest expense

6,059

3,119

2,788

Interest expense with Clear
    Channel Communications

46,437

42,355

41,415

Equity in earnings (loss) of
    nonconsolidated affiliates

(276

)

2,906

1,357

Other income
    (expense) — net

(3,176

)

(1,690

)

3,224

Income (loss) before income taxes

(69,131

)

14,725

68,367

Income tax (expense) benefit:

Current

53,025

55,946

68,272

Deferred

(114,513

)

(54,411

)

(79,607

)

Net income (loss)

(130,619

)

16,260

57,032

Other comprehensive income (loss),
    net of tax:

Foreign currency translation
    adjustments

(4,398

)

(18,472

)

(22,163

)

Comprehensive loss

$

(135,017

)

$

(2,212

)

$

34,869

Basic and diluted net loss per
    common share

$

(1.96

)

Basic and diluted weighted average
    common shares outstanding

66,809

See Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements



CONSOLIDATED
    AND COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN
    BUSINESS/SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Accumulated

Other

Common

Additional Paid-in

Retained

Owner’s Net

Cost of Shares Held

Comprehensive

Shares Issued

Common Stock

Capital

Deficit

Investment

in Treasury

Income (Loss)

Total

(In thousands, except share
    data)

Balances at December 31, 2002

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

203,800

$

—

$

27,114

$

230,914

Net income

—

—

—

—

57,032

—

—

57,032

Contributions from Owner

—

—

—

—

15,050

—

—

15,050

Dividends to Owner

—

—

—

—

(92,550

)

—

—

(92,550

)

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

(22,163

)

(22,163

)

Balances at December 31, 2003

—

—

—

—

183,332

—

4,951

188,283

Net income

—

—

—

—

16,260

—

—

16,260

Contributions from Owner

—

—

—

—

34,968

—

—

34,968

Dividends to Owner

—

—

—

—

(64,063

)

—

—

(64,063

)

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

(18,472

)

(18,472

)

Balances at December 31, 2004

—

—

—

—

170,497

—

(13,521

)

156,976

Net loss

—

—

—

(87,563

)

(43,056

)

—

—

(130,619

)

Contributions from Owner

—

—

—

—

81,885

—

—

81,885

Dividends to Owner

—

—

—

—

(76,705

)

—

—

(76,705

)

Contribution of debt with Clear
    Channel Communications

—

—

—

—

627,564

—

—

627,564

Distribution of common stock at

spin-off

67,174,912


748,011

—

(760,185

)

—

11,502

—

Purchase of common shares

—

—

—

—

—

(18,003

)

—

(18,003

)

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

(4,398

)

(4,398

)

Balances at December 31, 2005

67,174,912

$


$

748,011

$

(87,563

)

$

—

$

(18,003

)

$

(6,417

)

$

636,700

See Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements



CONSOLIDATED
    AND COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands)

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Net income (loss)

$

(130,619

)

$

16,260

$

57,032

Reconciling items:

Depreciation

62,279

60,918

60,421

Amortization of intangibles

2,343

3,177

3,015

Deferred income tax expense

114,513

54,411

79,607

Amortization of debt issuance costs


—

—

Current tax benefit dividends to
    owner

(76,705

)

(64,063

)

(92,550

)

Non-cash compensation expense

1,256

1,084

1,302

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    and fixed assets

4,859

6,371

(978

)

Equity in (earnings) loss of
    nonconsolidated affiliates


(2,906

)

(1,357

)

Minority interest expense

5,236

3,300

3,280

Decrease in
    other — net

(119

)

(462

)

(266

)

Changes in operating assets and
    liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions:

Decrease (increase) in accounts
    receivable

(15,911

)

11,100

(28,061

)

Decrease (increase) in prepaid
    expenses

(41,759

)

5,527

9,053

Decrease in other assets

4,592

1,178

2,646

Increase in accounts payable,
    accrued expenses and other liabilities

41,946

10,511

55,172

Increase (decrease) in deferred
    income

24,132

16,047

(7,328

)

Increase (decrease) in minority
    interest liability

17,585

(2,555

)

(2,275

)

Net cash provided by operating
    activities

13,913

119,898

138,713

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Decrease in notes receivable, net


1,943

14,795

Decrease (increase) in investments
    in, and advances to, nonconsolidated
    affiliates — net

(5,747

)

(1,413

)

8,437

Purchases of property, plant and
    equipment

(92,520

)

(73,435

)

(69,936

)

Proceeds from disposal of assets


3,581


Acquisition of operating assets

(8,467

)

(13,727

)

(5,284

)

Increase in
    other — net

(71

)

(1,025

)

(556

)

Net cash used in investing
    activities

(106,049

)

(84,076

)

(51,960

)

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Proceeds from (payments on) debt
    with Clear Channel Communications

220,981

24,079

(53,859

)

Payment on debt with Clear Channel
    Communications at spin-off

(220,000

)

—

—

Proceeds from long-term debt, net
    of debt issuance costs

344,129

6,725

—

Payments on long-term debt

(1,169

)

(7,550

)

(3,035

)

Proceeds from issuance of
    redeemable preferred stock, net of debt issuance costs

19,500

—

—

Payments for purchase of common
    stock

(18,003

)

—

—

Net cash provided by (used in)
    financing activities

345,438

23,254

(56,894

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on
    cash

(28,723

)

3,701

(18,396

)

Net increase in cash and cash
    equivalents

224,579

62,777

11,463

Cash and cash equivalents at
    beginning of year

179,137

116,360

104,897

Cash and cash equivalents at end of
    year

$

403,716

$

179,137

$

116,360

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE

Cash paid during the year for:

Interest

$

4,549

$

3,048

$

2,564

Income taxes

$

17,253

$

9,685

$

9,917

See Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE A — SUMMARY
    OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Nature
    of Business

Live Nation, Inc. (the “Company”) was incorporated in
    Delaware on August 2, 2005 in preparation for the
    contribution and transfer by Clear Channel Communications, Inc.
    (“Clear Channel Communications”) of substantially all
    of the entertainment assets and liabilities to the Company (the
    “Separation”). The Company completed the Separation on
    December 21, 2005 and became a publicly traded company on
    the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: LYV).

Prior to the Separation, Live Nation was a wholly owned
    subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications. As part of the
    Separation, holders of Clear Channel Communications common stock
    of record on December 14, 2005 received one share of Live
    Nation common stock for every eight shares of Clear Channel
    Communications common stock on December 21, 2005. No
    fractional shares of our common stock were issued. Any
    shareholder entitled to fractional shares received net cash in
    lieu of such shares.

The Company has two principal business segments: global music
    and global theater. Global music operations include the
    promotion and production of live music performances and tours by
    music artists in venues owned and operated by the Company and in
    third-party venues rented by the Company. Global theater
    operations present and produce touring and other theatrical
    performances in venues owned and operated by the Company and in
    third-party venues rented by the Company. In addition, the
    Company has operations in the specialized motor sports, sports
    representation and other businesses.

Basis
    of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation and
    Combination

Prior
    to the Separation

Prior to the Separation, the combined financial statements
    include amounts that are comprised of businesses included in the
    consolidated financial statements and accounting records of
    Clear Channel Communications, using the historical basis of
    assets and liabilities of the entertainment business. The
    international assets of the Company were contributed by Clear
    Channel Communications through a non-cash capital contribution
    to the Company of $383.1 million in 2002. Management
    believes the assumptions underlying the combined financials
    statements are reasonable. However, the combined financial
    statements included herein may not reflect what our results of
    operations, financial position and cash flows would have been
    had we operated as a separate, stand-alone entity during the
    periods presented or what our results of operations, financial
    position and cash flows will be in the future. Clear Channel
    Communications’ net investment in the Company is shown as
    Business equity in lieu of Shareholders’ equity in the
    combined financial statements prior to the Separation.

Subsequent
    to the Separation

As a result of the Separation, the Company recognized the par
    value and additional

paid-in-capital

in connection with the issuance of our common stock in exchange
    for the net assets contributed at that time, and the Company
    began accumulating retained deficits and currency translation
    adjustments upon completion of the Separation. Beginning on
    December 21, 2005, the Company’s consolidated
    financial statements include all accounts of the Company and its
    majority owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany accounts
    among the consolidated and combined businesses have been
    eliminated in consolidation. Investments in nonconsolidated
    affiliates are accounted for using the equity method of
    accounting. Certain amounts in prior years have been
    reclassified to conform to the 2005 presentation.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments
    with an original maturity of three months or less.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts

The Company evaluates the collectibility of its accounts
    receivable based on a combination of factors. Generally, it
    records specific reserves to reduce the amounts recorded to what
    it believes will be collected when a customer’s account
    ages beyond typical collection patterns, or the Company becomes
    aware of a customer’s inability to meet its financial
    obligations. To a lesser extent, the Company recognizes reserves
    based on historical experience of bad debts as a percentage of
    revenues for applicable businesses, adjusted for relative
    improvements or deteriorations in the agings. When accounts
    receivable are determined to be uncollectible, the amount of the
    receivable is written off against the allowance for doubtful
    accounts.

Prepaid
    Expenses

The majority of the Company’s prepaid expenses relate to
    event expenses including show advances and deposits and other
    costs directly related to future entertainment events. Such
    costs are charged to operations upon completion of the related
    events.

Purchase
    Accounting

The Company accounts for its business acquisitions under the
    purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is
    allocated to the underlying identifiable net assets based on
    their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the
    purchase price over the estimated fair values of the assets
    acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of
    assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires
    management’s judgment and often involves the use of
    significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions
    with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount
    rates, asset lives and market multiples, among other items. In
    addition, reserves have been established on the Company’s
    balance sheet related to acquired liabilities and qualifying
    restructuring costs and contingencies based on assumptions made
    at the time of acquisition. The Company evaluates these reserves
    on a regular basis to determine the adequacies of the amounts.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or fair value
    at date of acquisition. Depreciation, which is recorded for both
    owned assets and assets under capital leases, is computed using
    the straight-line method at rates that, in the opinion of
    management, are adequate to allocate the cost of such assets
    over their estimated useful lives, which are as follows:

Buildings and improvements — 10 to 50 years

Furniture and other equipment — 3 to 10 years

Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the
    economic life or associated lease term assuming renewal periods,
    if appropriate. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are
    charged to operations as incurred, whereas expenditures for
    renewal and improvements are capitalized.

The Company tests for possible impairment of property, plant,
    and equipment whenever events or changes in circumstances, such
    as a reduction in operating cash flow or a dramatic change in
    the manner that the asset is intended to be used indicate that
    the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If
    indicators exist, the Company compares the estimated
    undiscounted future cash flows related to the asset to the
    carrying value of the asset. If the carrying value is greater
    than the estimated undiscounted future cash flow amount, an
    impairment charge is recorded in depreciation and amortization
    expense in the statement of operations for amounts necessary to
    reduce the carrying value of the asset to fair value. The
    impairment loss calculations require management to apply
    judgment in estimating future cash flows and the discount rates
    that reflect the risk inherent in future cash flows.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Intangible
    Assets

The Company classifies intangible assets as definite-lived or
    goodwill. Definite-lived intangibles include primarily
    non-compete and building or naming rights, all of which are
    amortized over the respective lives of the agreements, typically
    four to twenty years. The Company periodically reviews the
    appropriateness of the amortization periods related to its
    definite-lived assets. These assets are stated at cost. The
    excess cost over fair value of net assets acquired is classified
    as goodwill. The goodwill is not subject to amortization, but is
    tested for impairment at least annually.

The Company tests for possible impairment of definite-lived
    intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances,
    such as a reduction in operating cash flow or a dramatic change
    in the manner that the asset is intended to be used indicate
    that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If
    indicators exist, the Company compares the estimated
    undiscounted future cash flows related to the asset to the
    carrying value of the asset. If the carrying value is greater
    than the estimated undiscounted future cash flow amount, an
    impairment charge is recorded in depreciation and amortization
    expense in the statement of operations for amounts necessary to
    reduce the carrying value of the asset to fair value. The
    impairment loss calculations require management to apply
    judgment in estimating future cash flows and the discount rates
    that reflect the risk inherent in future cash flows.

At least annually, the Company performs its impairment test for
    each reporting unit’s goodwill using a two-step approach.
    The first step, used to screen for potential impairment,
    compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying
    amount, including goodwill. The second step, used to measure the
    amount of the impairment loss, uses a discounted cash flow model
    to determine if the carrying value of the reporting unit,
    including goodwill, is less than the fair value of the reporting
    unit. Certain assumptions are used in determining the fair
    value, including assumptions about cash flow rates, discount
    rates, and terminal values. If the fair value of the
    Company’s reporting unit is less than the carrying value of
    the reporting unit, the Company reduces the carrying amount of
    goodwill. Impairment charges are recorded in depreciation and
    amortization expense in the statement of operations

.

Nonconsolidated
    Affiliates

In general, investments in which the Company owns
    20 percent to 50 percent of the common stock or
    otherwise exercises significant influence over the company are
    accounted for under the equity method. The Company does not
    recognize gains or losses upon the issuance of securities by any
    of its equity method investees. The Company reviews the value of
    equity method investments and records impairment charges in the
    statement of operations for any decline in value that is
    determined to be

other-than-temporary.

Operational
    Assets

As part of the Company’s operations, it will invest in
    certain assets or rights to use assets, generally in theatrical
    productions or exhibitions. The Company reviews the value of
    these assets and records impairment charges in divisional
    operating expenses in the statement of operations for any
    decline in value that is determined to be other-than-temporary.

Financial
    Instruments

Due to their short maturity, the carrying amounts of cash and
    cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and
    accrued expenses approximated their fair values at
    December 31, 2005 and 2004. As none of the Company’s
    debt is publicly-traded and the majority of the interest on this
    debt accrues at a variable rate, the carrying amounts of
    long-term debt approximated their fair value at
    December 31, 2005 and 2004.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Income
    Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes using the liability
    method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities
    are determined based on differences between financial reporting
    bases and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured
    using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income
    in the periods in which the deferred tax asset or liability is
    expected to be realized or settled. Deferred tax assets are
    reduced by valuation allowances if the Company believes it is
    more likely than not that some portion or the entire asset will
    not be realized. As all earnings from the Company’s foreign
    operations are permanently reinvested and not distributed, the
    Company’s income tax provision does not include additional
    United States taxes on foreign operations. It is not practical
    to determine the amount of federal income taxes, if any, that
    might become due in the event that the earnings were distributed.

The Company’s provision for income taxes has been computed
    on the basis that the Company files separate consolidated income
    tax returns with its subsidiaries. Prior to the Separation, the
    operations of the Company were included in a consolidated
    federal income tax return filed by Clear Channel Communication.
    Certain tax liabilities owed by the Company were remitted to the
    appropriate taxing authority by Clear Channel Communications and
    were accounted for as non-cash capital contributions by Clear
    Channel Communications to the Company. Tax benefits recognized
    on employee stock option exercises were retained by Clear
    Channel Communications. Subsequent to the Separation, the
    Company will file separate consolidated income tax returns.

The Company computes its deferred income tax provision using the
    liability method in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 109,

Accounting for Income
    Taxes.

The Company’s provision for income taxes is
    further disclosed in Note I.

Revenue
    Recognition

Revenue from the presentation and production of an event is
    recognized on the date of the performance. Revenue collected in
    advance of the event is recorded as deferred income until the
    event occurs. Revenue collected from sponsorships and other
    revenue, which is not related to any single event, is classified
    as deferred income and generally amortized over the operating
    season or the term of the contract.

The Company believes that the credit risk with respect to trade
    receivables is limited due to the large number and the
    geographic diversification of its customers.

Barter
    Transactions

Barter transactions represent the exchange of display space or
    tickets for advertising, merchandise or services. These
    transactions are generally recorded at the lower of the fair
    market value of the display space or tickets relinquished or the
    fair value of the advertising, merchandise or services received.
    Revenue is recognized on barter and trade transactions when the
    advertisements are displayed or the event occurs for which the
    tickets are exchanged. Expenses are recorded when the
    advertising, merchandise or service is received or when the
    event occurs. Barter and trade revenues for the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, were approximately
    $34.9 million, $45.1 million and $33.4 million,
    respectively, and are included in total revenues. Barter and
    trade expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
    and 2003, were approximately $34.8 million,
    $44.5 million and $32.7 million, respectively, and are
    included in divisional operating expenses.

Foreign
    Currency

Results of operations for foreign subsidiaries and foreign
    equity investees are translated into United States dollars using
    the average exchange rates during the year. The assets and
    liabilities of those subsidiaries and investees are translated
    into United States dollars using the exchange rates at the
    balance sheet date. The Company does not currently have
    operations in highly inflationary countries. The related
    translation



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

adjustments are recorded in a separate component of
    business/shareholders’ equity in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss. Foreign currency transaction gains and
    losses, are included in operations.

Advertising
    Expense

The Company records advertising expense as it is incurred on an
    annual basis. Advertising expenses of $179.7 million,
    $194.2 million and $172.7 million were recorded during
    the year ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively.

Depreciation
    and Amortization

The Company’s depreciation and amortization expense is
    presented as a separate line item in the consolidated and
    combined statements of operations. There is no depreciation or
    amortization expense included in divisional operating expenses.

Non-Cash
    Compensation Expense

Non-cash compensation expense, which is based on an allocation
    from Clear Channel Communications and is related to issuance of
    Clear Channel Communications’ stock awards, is included in
    corporate expenses in the Company’s consolidated and
    combined statements of operations.

Use of
    Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
    make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the
    amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying
    notes including, but not limited to, legal, tax and insurance
    accruals. The Company bases its estimates on historical
    experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to
    be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could
    differ from those estimates.

New
    Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 153,

Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an
    amendment of APB Opinion No. 29

(“Statement 153”). Statement 153
    eliminates the APB Opinion No. 29 exception for nonmonetary
    exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with an
    exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have
    commercial substance. Statement 153 is effective for
    financial statements for fiscal years beginning after
    June 15, 2005. Earlier application is permitted for
    nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods
    beginning after the date of issuance. The provisions of
    Statement 153 should be applied prospectively. The Company
    will adopt Statement 153 for its fiscal year beginning
    January 1, 2006 and management does not believe that
    adoption will materially impact the Company’s financial
    position or results of operations.

On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),

Share-Based Payment

(“Statement 123(R)”)
    which is a revision of Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation

(“Statement 123”).
    Statement 123(R) supersedes Accounting Principles Board
    (“APB”) Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock
    Issued to Employees

(“APB 25”), and amends
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95,

Statement of Cash Flows.

Generally, the
    approach in Statement 123(R) is similar to the approach
    described in Statement 123. However, Statement 123(R)
    requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants
    of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income
    statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no
    longer an alternative. Statement 123(R) is effective for
    financial statements for the first interim or annual period
    beginning after June 15, 2005. Early adoption is permitted
    in periods in which financial statements have not yet been
    issued. In April 2005, the SEC issued a press release announcing
    that it would provide for phased-in implementation guidance for
    Statement 123(R). The SEC would require that registrants
    that are not small business issuers adopt
    Statement 123(R)’s fair value method of accounting for
    share-based payments to



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

employees no later than the beginning of the first fiscal year
    beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company will adopt
    Statement 123(R) on January 1, 2006 using the modified
    prospective method.

As permitted by Statement 123, the Company currently
    accounts for share-based payments to employees using APB 25
    intrinsic value method and, as such, generally recognizes no
    compensation cost for employee stock options. Accordingly, the
    adoption of Statement 123(R)’s fair value method will
    have a significant impact on the Company’s result of
    operations, although it will have no impact on its overall
    financial position. The Company is unable to quantify the impact
    of adoption of Statement 123(R) at this time because it
    will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the
    future. However, had the Company adopted Statement 123(R)
    in prior periods, the impact of that standard would have
    approximated the impact of Statement 123 as described in
    the disclosure of pro forma net income and earnings per share
    below. Statement 123(R) also requires the benefits of tax
    deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be
    reported as a financing cash flow. This requirement will
    increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. The
    Company cannot estimate what those amounts will be in the future
    because they depend on, among other things, the levels of
    share-based payments granted in the future.

In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”) issued Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 107

Share-Based Payment

(“SAB 107”). SAB 107 expresses the SEC
    staff’s views regarding the interaction between
    Statement 123(R) and certain SEC rules and regulations and
    provides the staff’s views regarding the valuation of
    share-based payment arrangements for public companies. In
    particular, SAB 107 provides guidance related to
    share-based payment transactions with nonemployees, the
    transition from nonpublic to public entity status, valuation
    methods (including assumptions such as expected volatility and
    expected term), the accounting for certain redeemable financial
    instruments issued under share-based payment arrangements, the
    classification of compensation expense, non-GAAP financial
    measures, first time adoption of Statement 123(R) in an
    interim period, capitalization of compensation cost related to
    share-based payment arrangements, the accounting for income tax
    effects of share-based payment arrangements upon adoption of
    Statement 123(R) and the modification of employee share
    options prior to adoption of Statement 123(R).

In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 154,

Accounting Changes and Error
    Corrections

(“Statement 154”).
    Statement 154 replaces APB Opinion No. 20,

Accounting Changes

, and FASB Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 3,

Reporting Accounting Changes
    in Interim Financial Statements

, and changes the
    requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in
    accounting principle. Statement 154 applies to all
    voluntary changes in accounting principle. It also applies to
    changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual
    instance that the pronouncement does not include specific
    transition provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific
    transition provisions, those provisions should be followed.
    Statement 154 is effective for accounting changes and
    corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2005. The Company will adopt
    Statement 154 on January 1, 2006 and does not
    anticipate adoption to materially impact our financial position
    or results of operations.

In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”)
    issued

EITF 05-6,

Determining the Amortization Period of Leasehold Improvements

(“EITF 05-6”).

EITF 05-6

requires that assets recognized under capital leases generally
    be amortized in a manner consistent with the lessee’s
    normal depreciation policy except that the amortization period
    is limited to the lease term (which includes renewal periods
    that are reasonably assured).

EITF 05-6

also addresses the determination of the amortization period for
    leasehold improvements that are purchased subsequent to the
    inception of the lease. Leasehold improvements acquired in a
    business combination or purchased subsequent to the inception of
    the lease should be amortized over the lesser of the useful life
    of the asset or the lease term that includes reasonably assured
    lease renewals as determined on the date of the acquisition of
    the leasehold improvement. The Company adopted

EITF 05-6

on July 1, 2005 which did not materially impact its
    financial position or results of operations.

In October 2005, the FASB issued Staff Position

13-1

(“FSP

13-1”).

FSP

13-1

requires rental costs associated with ground or building
    operating leases that are incurred during a construction period
    be recognized as rental expense. The guidance in FSP

13-1

shall
    be applied to the first reporting period beginning



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

after December 15, 2005. The Company will adopt FSP

13-1

on
    January 1, 2006 and does not anticipate adoption to
    materially impact its financial position or results of
    operations.

In February 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
    No. FAS 123(R) — 4,

Contingent Cash
    Settlement

(“FSP
    FAS 123(R) — 4”). FSP
    FAS 123(R) — 4 requires companies to
    classify employee stock options and similar instruments with
    contingent cash settlement features as equity awards under
    Statement 123(R) provided that (1) the contingent
    event that permits or requires cash settlement is not considered
    probable of occurring and is not within the control of the
    employee; and (2) the award includes no other features that
    would require liability classification. The Company will adopt
    FSP FAS 123(R) — 4 on January 1, 2006
    and management does not believe that adoption will materially
    impact the Company’s financial position or results of
    operations.

Stock
    Based Compensation

Prior to the Separation, compensation expense relating to Clear
    Channel Communications stock options and restricted stock awards
    held by the Company’s employees was allocated by Clear
    Channel Communications to the Company on a specific employee
    basis. At the Separation, all unvested options outstanding under
    Clear Channel Communications’ stock-based compensation
    plans that were held by the Company’s employees were
    forfeited and the vested options were forfeited to the extent
    they were not exercised within the applicable post-employment
    exercise period provided in their option agreements. All Clear
    Channel Communications restricted stock awards held by the
    Company’s employees at the date of Separation were
    forfeited due to the termination of their employment with the
    Clear Channel Communications’ group of companies.

On December 21, 2005, the Company adopted the 2005 Stock
    Incentive Plan. The plan authorizes the Company to grant stock
    option awards, director shares, stock appreciation rights,
    restricted stock and deferred stock awards, other equity-based
    awards, and performance awards. In connection with the
    Separation, options to purchase approximately 2.1 million
    shares of the Company’s common stock and approximately
    0.3 million restricted stock awards were granted to
    employees. The options granted have an exercise price of
    $10.60 per share.

The Company accounts for its stock-based award plans in
    accordance with APB 25, and related interpretations, under
    which compensation expense is recorded to the extent that the
    current market price of the underlying stock exceeds the
    exercise price. Note J provides the assumptions used to
    calculate the pro forma net income (loss) and pro forma earnings
    (loss) per share disclosures as if the stock-based awards had
    been accounted for using the provisions of Statement 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.

Due to the
    Separation, the Company’s pro forma disclosures include
    stock compensation expense for options granted by Clear Channel
    Communications, prior to the Separation, and options granted by
    the Company after the Separation. The required pro forma
    disclosures are as follows:




(In thousands, except per share
    data)

Net income (loss):

Reported

$

(130,619

)

$

16,260

$

57,032

Pro forma stock compensation
    expense, net of tax:

Live Nation options

(47

)

—

—

Clear Channel Communications’
    options

6,713

(11,368

)

(6,499

)

Pro Forma

$

(123,953

)

$

4,892

$

50,533

Pro forma basic and diluted income
    (loss) per common share:

Reported

$

(1.96

)

Pro forma

$

(1.86

)



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE B — LONG-LIVED
    ASSETS

Definite-lived
    Intangibles

The Company has definite-lived intangible assets which consist
    primarily of non-compete and building or naming rights, all of
    which are amortized over the shorter of either the respective
    lives of the agreements or over the period of time the assets
    are expected to contribute to the Company’s future cash
    flows. These definite-lived intangibles had a gross carrying
    amount and accumulated amortization of $18.7 million and
    $6.3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2005,
    and $26.9 million and $12.1 million, respectively, as
    of December 31, 2004.

Total amortization expense from definite-lived intangible assets
    for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
    $2.3 million, $3.2 million and $3.0 million,
    respectively. The following table presents the Company’s
    estimate of amortization expense for each of the five succeeding
    fiscal years for definite-lived intangible assets that exist at
    December 31, 2005:

(In thousands)


$










As acquisitions and dispositions occur in the future
    amortization expense may vary.

Goodwill

The Company tests goodwill for impairment using a two-step
    process. The first step, used to screen for potential
    impairment, compares the fair value of the reporting unit with
    its carrying amount, including goodwill. The second step, used
    to measure the amount of the impairment loss, compares the
    implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the
    carrying amount of that goodwill. The following table presents
    the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill in each of the
    Company’s reportable segments for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2004:

Global

Global

Music

Theater

Total

(In thousands)

Balance as of December 31,

$

97,849

$

29,227

$

127,076

Acquisitions

13,199

3,942

17,141

Foreign currency

(2,266

)

(677

)

(2,943

)

Adjustments

(74,275

)

(22,186

)

(96,461

)

Balance as of December 31,

34,507

10,306

44,813

Acquisitions

104,663

2,493

107,156

Foreign currency

(1,365

)

(408

)

(1,773

)

Adjustments

(10,076

)

(3,010

)

(13,086

)

Balance as of December 31,

$

127,729

$

9,381

$

137,110

During 2004, Internal Revenue Service audits of the Company were
    concluded for certain pre-acquisition periods occurring prior to
    the Company being acquired by Clear Channel Communications.
    Contingent tax reserve liabilities were previously established
    for these periods with an offsetting increase to goodwill, as
    part of Clear Channel Communications’ purchase accounting
    entries for its acquisition of the Company. Upon



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

settlement of these tax periods, the Company was able to reverse
    its previously recorded tax reserve liabilities and decrease its
    goodwill by approximately $96.5 million.

During July, 2005, the Company purchased a 50.1% controlling
    majority interest in Mean Fiddler Music Group, PLC (“Mean
    Fiddler”) in the United Kingdom for approximately
    $43.6 million. Total assets were valued at approximately
    $117.0 million, which includes $93.9 million of
    goodwill, and total liabilities and minority interest of
    approximately $73.4 million were recorded. Mean Fiddler is
    a consolidated subsidiary that is part of the Company’s
    global music segment. Mean Fiddler is involved in the promotion
    and production of live music events, including festivals, and
    venue operations. The goodwill recorded represents the value of
    efficiencies that the Company expects Mean Fiddler to make in
    its promotion business as well as giving the Company control of
    key festivals in the United Kingdom that it can replicate in
    other markets as a source of future growth.

Also, during 2005, the Company recorded adjustments increasing
    deferred tax assets and decreasing goodwill by approximately
    $12.8 million, due to the availability of future tax
    deductions as a result of the settlement of certain Internal
    Revenue Service audits of the Company for certain periods prior
    to the Clear Channel Communications’ acquisition in 2000.

The results of operations for the year ended December 31,
    2005 include the operations of Mean Fiddler from July 5,
    2005. Unaudited pro forma consolidated and combined results of
    operations, assuming the Mean Fiddler acquisition had occurred
    on January 1, 2004 would have been as follows:

Year Ended

December 31,



(In thousands, except

per share data)

Revenue

$

2,957,024

$

2,900,841

Net income (loss)

$

(135,090

)

$

11,250

Net income (loss) per common share

$

(2.02

)

Other
    Operating Assets

The Company makes investments in various operating assets,
    including investments in assets and rights related to assets for
    museum exhibitions. These assets are reviewed for impairment
    whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
    carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. For the
    years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company
    recorded impairment write-downs related to these exhibitions,
    included in the Company’s other operations, of
    $0.9 million and $1.1 million, respectively. These
    write-downs were recorded in divisional operating expenses.
    There was no similar write-off in 2003.

NOTE C — BUSINESS
    ACQUISITIONS

The Company made cash payments of $8.5 million,
    $13.8 million and $5.3 million during the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, primarily
    related to acquisitions of music promoters and venue operators,
    as well as various earn-outs and deferred purchase price
    consideration on prior year acquisitions. In addition, Clear
    Channel Communications made cash payments of $67.9 million,
    $16.2 million and $2.8 million during the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to
    these acquisitions. These payments by Clear Channel
    Communications were recorded as non-cash capital contributions
    to the Company.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Acquisition
    Summary

The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities
    acquired and the consideration given for all acquisitions made
    during 2005 and 2004:



(In thousands)

Accounts receivable

$

7,969

$


Property, plant and equipment

6,857


Goodwill

110,036

17,141

Other assets

10,118


134,980

17,669

Other liabilities

(59,401

)

(504

)

Cash paid for acquisitions

$

75,579

$

17,165

The Company has entered into certain agreements relating to
    acquisitions that provide for purchase price adjustments and
    other future contingent payments based on the financial
    performance of the acquired company. During the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the cash payments
    discussed above include payments related to earn-outs and
    deferred purchase price consideration of $0.8 million,
    $12.8 million and $4.4 million, respectively, that
    were recorded to goodwill. The Company will continue to accrue
    additional amounts related to such contingent payments if and
    when it is determinable that the applicable financial
    performance targets will be met. The aggregate of these
    contingent payments, if performance targets are met, will not
    significantly impact the Company’s financial position or
    results of operations.

Restructuring

The Company has recorded liabilities related to acquisitions and
    restructurings. In July 2005, the Company acquired a controlling
    majority interest in Mean Fiddler. As part of the acquisition,
    the Company recorded $4.7 million in restructuring costs in
    its global music operations primarily related to lease
    terminations, which it expects to pay over the next several
    years. As of December 31, 2005, the accrual balance for the
    Mean Fiddler restructuring was $4.4 million. This
    restructuring has resulted in the actual termination of
    approximately 33 employees. In addition, the Company has a
    remaining restructuring accrual of $1.8 million as of
    December 31, 2005, related to its merger with Clear Channel
    Communications in August 2000.

The Company has recorded a liability in purchase accounting
    primarily related to severance for terminated employees and
    lease terminations as follows:




(In thousands)

Severance and lease termination
    costs:

Accrual at January 1

$

2,579

$

2,648

$

5,312

Restructuring accruals recorded

4,730

—

—

Payments charged against
    restructuring accrual

(1,086

)

(69

)

(2,664

)

Remaining accrual at
    December 31

$

6,223

$

2,579

$

2,648

The remaining severance and lease accrual is comprised of
    $0.8 million of severance and $5.4 million of lease
    termination. The severance accrual includes amounts that will be
    paid over the next several years related to deferred payments to
    former employees as well as other compensation. The lease
    termination accrual will be paid over the next 23 years.
    During 2005, $0.9 million was paid and charged to the
    restructuring reserve related to severance. The Company is
    continuing to evaluate its purchase accounting liabilities
    related to several leases in the Mean Fiddler acquisition which
    may result in additional restructuring accruals.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In 2005, the Company recorded additional accruals related to the
    realignment of its business operations consisting of severance
    and lease termination costs. The total expense related to this
    restructuring recorded in divisional operating expenses for
    global music, global theater and other operations was
    $4.3 million, $2.2 million and $3.5 million,
    respectively. In addition, $4.7 million of restructuring
    expense was recorded in corporate expenses. As of
    December 31, 2005, the remaining accrual related to this
    2005 restructuring was $4.8 million.

In 2004, the Company recorded additional restructuring accruals
    related to the sale of a United Kingdom business included in
    other operations and a reduction in operating personnel in the
    global music segment. Total expense related to these
    restructurings was $6.4 million recorded in divisional
    operating expenses and resulted in the actual termination of
    approximately 90 employees. As of December 31, 2005, there
    is no remaining accrual related to this 2004 restructuring.

Clear Channel Communications made payments related to
    acquisition contingencies of $5.2 million,
    $1.1 million and $12.3 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, on behalf
    of the Company. These payments were accounted for as non-cash
    capital contributions by Clear Channel Communications to the
    Company.

NOTE D — INVESTMENTS

The Company’s most significant investments in
    nonconsolidated affiliates are listed below:

Dominion
    Theatre

The Company owns a 33% interest in the Dominion Theatre, a
    United Kingdom theatrical company involved in venue operations.

MLK

The Company owns a 20% interest in MLK, a German music company
    involved in promotion of, and venue operations for, live
    entertainment events.

House
    of Blues/PACE JV

The Company owns a 32.5% interest in a joint venture with House
    of Blues. This is a United States music company involved in
    promotion of, and venue operations for, live entertainment
    events.

Broadway
    in Chicago

The Company owns a 50% interest in Broadway in Chicago, a United
    States theatrical company involved in promotion, presentation
    and venue operations for live entertainment events.

Delirium
    Concert, L.P.

The Company owns a 50% interest in a joint venture with Cirque
    Du Soleil to develop, produce and promote a new type of live
    entertainment musical and visual event.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Summarized
    Financial Information

The following table summarizes the Company’s investments in
    these nonconsolidated affiliates:

Delirium

HOB/PACE

Broadway in

Concert

All

Dominion

MLK

JV

Chicago

L.P.

Others

Total

(In thousands)

At December 31, 2004

$

5,544

$

6,664

$

4,566

$

3,595

$

—

$

6,633

$

27,002

Acquisition (disposition) of
    investments

—

—

—

—

4,965


5,588

Additional investment, net

(1,161

)

(533

)

—

(3,024

)

—

5,196


Equity in net earnings (loss)

1,102

(26

)

(1,165

)

6,069

—

(6,256

)

(276

)

Foreign currency translation
    adjustment

(660

)

(857

)

—

—

—

(615

)

(2,132

)

At December 31, 2005

$

4,825

$

5,248

$

3,401

$

6,640

$

4,965

$

5,581

$

30,660

The above investments are not consolidated, but are primarily
    accounted for under the equity method of accounting, whereby the
    Company records its investments in these entities in the balance
    sheet as investments in, and advances to, nonconsolidated
    affiliates. The Company’s interests in their operations are
    recorded in the statement of operations as equity in earnings
    (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates. There were no accumulated
    undistributed earnings included in retained deficit for these
    investments for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
    2003. Investments for which the Company owns less than a 20%
    interest are accounted for under the cost method.

These assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
    changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of
    the asset may not be recoverable. For the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded an
    impairment write-down related to these investments in
    nonconsolidated affiliates of $4.9 million,
    $0.6 million and $2.8 million, respectively. These
    write-downs were recorded as equity in earnings (loss) of
    nonconsolidated affiliates. Of the 2005 amount,
    $1.2 million related to the global music segment and the
    remaining $3.7 million related to the Company’s other
    operations. The 2004 amount related to the global music segment.
    Of the 2003 amount, $1.1 million related to the global
    music segment and the remaining $1.7 million related to the
    Company’s other operations.

The Company conducts business with certain of its equity method
    investees in the ordinary course of business. Transactions
    relate to venue rentals, management fees, sponsorship revenue,
    and reimbursement of certain costs. Expenses of
    $3.1 million and $2.6 million were incurred in 2005
    and 2004, respectively, and revenues of $1.9 million and
    $1.2 million were earned in 2005 and 2004, respectively,
    from these equity investees for services rendered or provided in
    relation to these business ventures. It is the Company’s
    opinion that these transactions were recorded at fair value.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE E — LONG-TERM
    DEBT

Long-term debt, which includes capital leases, at
    December 31, 2005 and 2004, consisted of the following:

December 31,



(In thousands)

Debt with Clear Channel
    Communications

$

—

$

628,897

Senior Secured Credit Facility:

Term loan

325,000

—

Revolving credit facility

—

—

Other long-term debt

41,841

21,778

366,841

650,675

Less: current portion

25,705

1,214

Total long-term debt

$

341,136

$

649,461

Debt
    with Clear Channel Communications

Prior to the Separation, the Company had a revolving line of
    credit with Clear Channel Communications that was payable upon
    demand by Clear Channel Communications or on August 1,
    2010, whichever was earlier, allowed for prepayment at any time,
    and accrued interest at a fixed per annum rate of 7.0%. As part
    of the Separation, $220.0 million of the outstanding debt
    balance was repaid, with Clear Channel Communications
    contributing the remaining balance to the Company’s capital.

Senior
    Secured Credit Facility

On December 21, 2005, the Company entered into a
    $610.0 million senior secured credit facility consisting of
    a $325.0 million


/


-year term loan and a $285.0 million


/


-year revolving credit facility. The interest rate is based upon
    a prime or LIBOR rate, plus an applicable margin, selected at
    the Company’s discretion. The senior secured credit
    facility is secured by a first priority lien on substantially
    all of our domestic assets (other than real property and
    deposits maintained by the Company in connection with promoting
    or producing live entertainment events) and a pledge of the
    capital stock of the Company’s material domestic
    subsidiaries.

The senior secured credit facility contains a number of
    covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to
    incur additional debt, pay dividends and make distributions,
    make certain investments and acquisitions, repurchase stock and
    prepay certain indebtedness, create liens, enter into agreements
    with affiliates, modify the nature of the business, enter into
    sale-leaseback transactions, transfer and sell material assets,
    and merge or consolidate.

At December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on the term
    loan and revolving credit facility was $325.0 million and
    $0, respectively. Taking into account letters of credit of
    $46.4 million, $238.6 million was available for future
    borrowings. The Company is required to make minimum quarterly
    principal repayments under the term loan of approximately
    $3.2 million per year through March 2013, with the balance
    due at maturity in June 2013. The revolving credit portion of
    the credit facility matures in June 2012. At December 31,
    2005, the interest rate on borrowings under this credit facility
    was 6.62%.

In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal under
    the credit facility, the Company is required to pay a commitment
    fee to the lenders under the revolving credit facility in
    respect of the unutilized commitments. As of December 31,
    2005, the commitment fee rate was .375%. The Company is also
    required to pay customary letter of credit fees, as necessary.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Other
    long-term debt

Other long-term debt is comprised of capital leases of
    $10.6 million and notes payable of $31.2 million. The
    notes payable primarily consists of three notes with interest
    rates ranging from 6.0% to 8.75% and maturities ranging from
    seven to fourteen years.

Future maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2005
    are as follows:

(In thousands)


$

25,705


4,540


4,575


4,668


4,764

Thereafter

322,589

Total

$

366,841

Debt
    Covenants

The significant covenants on the Company’s
    $610.0 million,


/


-year, multi-currency credit facility relate to total leverage,
    senior leverage, interest coverage, and capital expenditures
    contained and defined in the credit agreement. The leverage
    ratio covenant requires the Company to maintain a ratio of
    consolidated total indebtedness minus unrestricted cash and cash
    equivalents (both as defined by the credit agreement) to
    consolidated
    earnings-before-interest-taxes-depreciation-and-amortization (as
    defined by the credit agreement, “Consolidated
    EBITDA”) of less than 4.5x through December 31, 2008,
    and less than 4.0x thereafter, provided that aggregated
    subordinated indebtedness is less than $25.0 million. The
    senior leverage covenant, which is only applicable provided
    aggregate subordinated indebtedness is greater than
    $25.0 million, requires the Company to maintain a ratio of
    consolidated senior indebtedness to Consolidated EBITDA of less
    than 3.0x. The interest coverage covenant requires the Company
    to maintain a minimum ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to cash
    interest expense (as defined by the credit agreement) of 2.5x.
    The capital expenditure covenant limits annual capital
    expenditures (as defined by the credit agreement) to
    $125.0 million or less through December 31, 2006, and
    $110.0 million or less thereafter. In the event that the
    Company does not meet these covenants, the Company is considered
    to be in default on the credit facilities at which time the
    credit facilities may become immediately due. This credit
    facility contains a cross default provision that would be
    triggered if it were to default on any other indebtedness
    greater than $10.0 million.

The Company’s other indebtedness does not contain
    provisions that would make it a default if it were to default on
    its credit facilities.

The fee paid on borrowings on the Company’s
    $325.0 million,


/


-year, senior term loan fee is 2.25% above LIBOR. The fees paid
    on the Company’s $285.0 million,


/


-year multi-currency revolving credit facility depend on its
    total leverage ratio. Based on the Company’s current total
    leverage ratio, its fees on borrowings are 1.75% above LIBOR and
    are .375% on the total remaining availability on the revolving
    credit facility. In the event the Company’s leverage ratio
    improves, the fees on revolving credit borrowings and the unused
    availability decline gradually to .75% and .25%, respectively,
    at a total leverage ratio of less than, or equal to, 1.25x.

The Company believes there are no other agreements that contain
    provisions that trigger an event of default upon a change in
    long-term debt ratings that would have a material impact on its
    financial statements.

At December 31, 2005, the Company was in compliance with
    all debt covenants. The Company expects to remain in compliance
    throughout 2006.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE F — REDEEMABLE
    PREFERRED STOCK

As of December 31, 2005, one of the Company’s
    subsidiaries had 200,000 shares of Series A redeemable
    preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, and
    200,000 shares of Series B redeemable preferred stock,
    par value $.01 per share, outstanding (collectively, the
    “Preferred Stock”) with an aggregate liquidation
    preference of $40.0 million. The Preferred Stock accrues
    dividends at 13% per annum and is mandatorily redeemable on
    December 21, 2011. The certificate of incorporation
    governing the Preferred Stock contains a number of covenants
    that, among other things, restricts the ability to incur
    additional debt, issue certain equity securities, create liens,
    merge or consolidate, modify the nature of the business, make
    certain investments and acquisitions, transfer and sell material
    assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, enter into swap
    agreements, pay dividends and make distributions, and enter into
    agreements with affiliates.

The Series A redeemable preferred stock has voting rights
    including the right to appoint one of the four members of the
    issuer’s board of directors. The Series B redeemable
    preferred stock has no voting rights other than the right to
    vote as a class with the Series A redeemable preferred
    stock to elect one additional member to the board of directors
    of the issuer in the event the issuer breaches certain terms of
    the designations of the preferred stock.

The issuer will be required to make an offer to purchase the
    Series A and Series B redeemable preferred stock at
    101% of each series liquidation preference in the event of a
    change of control. The Series A and Series B
    redeemable preferred stock will rank pari passu to each other
    and will be senior to all other classes or series of capital
    stock of the issuer with respect to dividends and with respect
    to liquidation or dissolution of the issuer.

NOTE G — COMMITMENTS
    AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company leases office space and equipment. Some of the lease
    agreements contain renewal options and annual rental escalation
    clauses (generally tied to the consumer price index), as well as
    provisions for the payment of utilities and maintenance by the
    Company. The Company also has non-cancelable contracts related
    to minimum performance payments with various artists and other
    event related costs. In addition, the Company has commitments
    relating to required purchases of property, plant, and equipment
    under certain construction commitments for facilities and venues.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s future minimum
    rental commitments under non-cancelable operating lease
    agreements with terms in excess of one year, minimum payments
    under non-cancelable contracts in excess of one year, and
    capital expenditure commitments consist of the following:

Non-Cancelable

Non-Cancelable

Capital

Operating Leases

Contracts

Expenditures

(In thousands)


$

64,339

$

190,200

$

23,461


60,739

17,283



53,942

10,649

—


48,458

9,514

—


41,195

4,013

2,500

Thereafter

744,154

15,424

—

Total

$

1,012,827

$

247,083

$

26,711

Excluded from the non-cancelable contracts is $66.0 million
    related to severance obligations for employment contracts
    calculated as if such employees were terminated on
    January 1, 2006.

Minimum rentals of $114.1 million to be received in years
    2006 through 2020 under non-cancelable subleases are excluded
    from the commitment amounts in the above table.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Rent expense charged to operations for 2005, 2004 and 2003 was
    $180.8 million, $175.7 million and
    $160.3 million, respectively. In addition to the minimum
    rental commitments discussed above, the Company has leases that
    contain contingent payment requirements for which payments vary
    depending on revenues, tickets sold or other variables.

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company guaranteed
    the debt of third parties of approximately $1.9 million and
    $3.5 million, respectively, primarily related to maximum
    credit limits on employee credit cards and, in 2004, this
    included a guarantee of a bank line of credit for working
    capital needs of a nonconsolidated affiliate.

The Company is currently involved in certain legal proceedings
    and, as required, has accrued its best estimate of the probable
    costs for the resolution of these claims. These estimates have
    been developed in consultation with counsel and are based upon
    an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of
    litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however,
    that future results of operations for any particular period
    could be materially affected by changes in the Company’s
    assumptions or the effectiveness of its strategies related to
    these proceedings.

Various acquisition agreements include deferred consideration
    payments including future contingent payments based on the
    financial performance of the acquired companies, generally over
    a one to five year period. Contingent payments involving the
    financial performance of the acquired companies are typically
    based on the acquired company meeting certain financial
    performance targets as defined in the agreement. The contingent
    payment amounts are generally calculated based on predetermined
    multiples of the achieved financial performance. At
    December 31, 2005, the Company is unable to estimate this
    contingency as it is subject to the future financial performance
    of the acquired companies. As the contingencies have not been
    met or resolved as of December 31, 2005, these amounts are
    not recorded. If future payments are made, amounts will be
    recorded as additional purchase price.

The Company has various investments in nonconsolidated
    affiliates that are subject to agreements that contain
    provisions that may result in future additional investments to
    be made by the Company. The put values are contingent upon
    financial performance of the investee and are typically based on
    the investee meeting certain financial performance targets, as
    defined in the agreements. The contingent payment amounts are
    generally calculated based on predetermined multiples of the
    achieved financial performance not to exceed a predetermined
    maximum amount.

NOTE H — RELATED
    PARTY TRANSACTIONS

Relationship
    with Clear Channel Communications

Master
    Separation and Distribution Agreement

The master separation and distribution agreement provided for,
    among other things, the principal corporate transactions
    required to effect the transfer of assets and the Company’s
    assumption of liabilities necessary to separate the transferred
    businesses from Clear Channel Communications, the distribution
    of the Company’s common stock to the holders of record of
    Clear Channel Communications’ common stock on
    December 14, 2005, and certain other agreements governing
    the Company’s relationship with Clear Channel
    Communications after the date of the Separation. The transfers
    from Clear Channel Communications to the Company occurred prior
    to the Separation and all of the assets were transferred on an
    “as is,” “where is” basis, and the Company
    and its subsidiaries agreed to bear the economic and legal risks
    that any conveyance was insufficient to vest in the Company good
    title, free and clear of any security interest, and that any
    necessary consents or approvals were not obtained or that any
    requirements of laws or judgments were not complied with. The
    Company assumed and agreed to perform and fulfill all of the
    liabilities arising out of ownership or use of the transferred
    assets or the operation of the transferred businesses. The
    Company also agreed, among other things, that for the
    Company’s 2005 fiscal year and for any fiscal year
    thereafter for so long as Clear Channel Communications is
    required to consolidate our results of operations and financial



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

position with its results of operations and financial position,
    the Company will not select an independent registered public
    accounting firm different from Clear Channel Communications.

Transition
    Services Agreement

The transition services agreement governs the provision by Clear
    Channel Communications to the Company of certain transitional
    administrative and support services such as treasury, payroll
    and other financial related services; human resources and
    employee benefits; legal and related services; information
    systems, network and related services; investment services; and
    corporate services. The charges for the transition services are
    intended to allow Clear Channel Communications to fully recover
    the allocated direct costs of providing the services, plus all

out-of-pocket

expenses, generally without profit. The allocation of costs will
    be based on various measures depending on the service provided,
    including relative revenue, employee headcount or number of
    users of a service. The services will terminate at various
    times, generally ranging from two months to one year after the
    completion of the Separation.

Tax
    Matters Agreement

The tax matters agreement governs the respective rights,
    responsibilities and obligations of Clear Channel Communications
    and the Company with respect to tax liabilities and benefits,
    tax attributes, tax contests and other matters regarding income
    taxes, non-income taxes and preparing and filing tax returns, as
    well as with respect to any additional taxes incurred by the
    Company attributable to actions, events or transactions relating
    to the Company’s stock, assets or business following the
    Separation, including taxes imposed if the Separation fails to
    qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or if Clear Channel
    Communications is not able to recognize certain losses.

Employee
    Matters Agreement

The employee matters agreement provides that the Company will be
    solely responsible for the majority of the liabilities and
    expenses relating to the Company’s current and former
    employees and their covered dependents and beneficiaries,
    regardless of when incurred.

Trademark
    and Copyright License Agreement

The trademark and copyright license agreement establishes the
    Company’s right to continue to use the trademark CLEAR
    CHANNEL, other marks incorporating the term CLEAR CHANNEL or
    variations thereof, the CC, and other marks used in connection
    with the transferred businesses, and trade dress and other
    indicia of origin associated with such trademarks and certain
    copyrights in packaging, labels, signage, marketing, advertising
    and promotional materials that bear or display such trademarks
    in the licensed territory for the transferred businesses, during
    a transitional period ending December 21, 2006.

Transactions
    with Clear Channel Communications

Prior to the Separation, the Company had a revolving line of
    credit with Clear Channel Communications. See further disclosure
    in Note E — Long Term Debt.

Clear Channel Communications has provided funding for certain of
    the Company’s acquisitions of net assets. These amounts
    funded by Clear Channel Communications for these acquisitions
    are recorded in owner’s net investment as a component of
    business/shareholders’ equity. Also, certain tax related
    receivables and payables, which are considered non-cash capital
    contributions or dividends, are recorded in owner’s net
    investment. During the fiscal years 2005 and 2004, Clear Channel
    Communications made additional non-cash capital contributions of
    $8.8 million and $17.7 million, respectively, to the
    Company. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company
    completed the Separation from Clear Channel Communications. As a
    result, the Company recognized the par value and additional

paid-in-capital

in connection with the issuance of our common stock in exchange
    for the net assets contributed by Clear Channel Communications.
    As of



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

December 31, 2005 there is no longer an owner’s net
    investment balance recorded. As of December 31, 2004 the
    balance recorded in owner’s net investment is
    $170.5 million.

The Company purchases advertising from Clear Channel
    Communications and its subsidiaries. For the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded
    $12.9 million, $16.7 million and $15.7 million,
    respectively, as a component of divisional operating expenses,
    for these advertisements. It is the Company’s opinion that
    these transactions were recorded at fair value.

Prior to the Separation, Clear Channel Communications provided
    management services to the Company, which included, among other
    things: (i) treasury, payroll and other financial related
    services; (ii) executive oversight; (iii) human
    resources and employee benefits services; (iv) legal and
    related services; and (v) information systems, network and
    related services. These services were allocated to the Company
    based on actual direct costs incurred or on the Company’s
    share of Clear Channel Communications’ estimate of expenses
    relative to a seasonally adjusted headcount. Management believes
    this allocation method to be reasonable and the expenses
    allocated to be materially the same as the amount that would
    have been incurred on a stand-alone basis. For the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded
    $9.5 million, $9.8 million and $9.2 million,
    respectively, as a component of corporate expenses for these
    services.

Clear Channel Communications owns the trademark and trade names
    used by the Company prior to the Separation. Beginning
    January 1, 2003, Clear Channel Communications charged the
    Company a royalty fee based upon a percentage of annual revenue.
    Clear Channel Communications used a third party valuation firm
    to assist in the determination of the royalty fee. For the years
    ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company
    recorded $0.5 million, $3.1 million and
    $4.1 million, respectively, of royalty fees in corporate
    expenses.

Prior to the Separation, the operations of the Company were
    included in a consolidated federal income tax return filed by
    Clear Channel Communications. The Company’s provision for
    income taxes has been computed on the basis that the Company
    files separate consolidated income tax returns with its
    subsidiaries. Tax payments were made to Clear Channel
    Communications on the basis of the Company’s separate
    taxable income. Tax benefits recognized on employee stock option
    exercises are retained by Clear Channel Communications.

The Company’s domestic employees participated in Clear
    Channel Communications’ employee benefit plans prior to the
    Separation, including employee medical insurance, an employee
    stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement benefit plan. These
    costs were recorded primarily as a component of divisional
    operating expenses and were approximately $9.0 million,
    $9.0 million and $7.6 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Subsequent
    to the Separation, the Company will provide its own employee
    benefit plans.

In connection with the Separation, the Company entered into
    various lease and licensing agreements with Clear Channel
    Communications primarily for office space occupied by the
    Company’s employees.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company has recorded a
    liability to Clear Channel Communications of $12.7 million,
    which is recorded in accrued expenses.

Other
    Related Parties

The Company conducts certain transactions in the ordinary course
    of business with companies that are owned, in part or in total,
    by various members of management of the Company’s
    subsidiaries. Transactions relate to venue rentals, equipment
    rental, ticketing and other services and reimbursement of
    certain costs. Expenses of $10.5 million, $7.9 million
    and $6.8 million were incurred in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
    respectively, and revenues of $0.5 million were earned in
    each of the years 2005, 2004 and 2003 from these companies for
    services rendered or provided in relation to these business
    ventures. None of these transactions were with senior executive
    officers of the Company.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE I — INCOME
    TAXES

Prior to the Separation, the operations of the Company were
    included in a consolidated federal income tax return filed by
    Clear Channel Communications. However, for financial reporting
    purposes, the Company’s provision for income taxes has been
    computed on the basis that the Company files separate
    consolidated income tax returns with its subsidiaries. Any
    accruals related to domestic tax contingencies for items that
    arose prior to the Separation were retained by Clear Channel
    Communications.

Significant components of the provision for income tax expense
    (benefit) are as follows:




(In thousands)

Current — federal

$

(74,605

)

$

(68,192

)

$

(71,966

)

Current — foreign

31,170

13,870

2,809

Current — state

(9,590

)

(1,624

)


Total current

(53,025

)

(55,946

)

(68,272

)

Deferred — federal

111,268

50,162

73,575

Deferred — foreign

(1,127

)

(2,201

)

(3,428

)

Deferred — state

4,372

6,450

9,460

Total deferred

114,513

54,411

79,607

Income tax expense (benefit)

$

61,488

$

(1,535

)

$

11,335

The increase in deferred tax expense of $60.1 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to
    December 31, 2004 was due primarily to a valuation
    allowance of $77.3 million recorded against certain
    deferred tax assets in 2005. Prior to the Separation, as a
    subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications, taxable losses of
    the Company’s subsidiaries were able to be utilized under a
    consolidated income tax return with Clear Channel
    Communications. After the Separation, the Company’s
    deferred tax assets had to be evaluated on a stand-alone basis
    and a valuation allowance was recorded based on the
    Company’s prior history of taxable losses and due to the
    uncertainty of the Company’s ability to realize its
    deferred tax assets.

Current tax benefit decreased $12.3 million in 2004 as
    compared to 2003. As a result of the favorable resolution of
    certain tax contingencies, current tax expense (benefit) for the
    year ended December 31, 2004 was reduced approximately
    $11.0 million. In 2004, certain of the Company’s
    Internal Revenue Service audits were settled and certain tax
    contingencies, which had previously been recorded in purchase
    accounting with an offset to goodwill, were resolved. Thus, the
    Company reversed $11.0 million of interest that had been
    accrued as tax expense associated with these items during prior
    years as a benefit to current tax expense. The
    $11.0 million was partially offset by approximately
    $4.9 million of additional current tax expense related to
    interest expense on other tax contingencies associated with
    various tax planning items. The decrease in deferred tax expense
    of $25.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
    as compared to December 31, 2003 was due primarily to
    additional depreciation expense deductions taken for tax
    purposes associated with a change in our tax lives of certain
    assets. The additional depreciation expense resulted in an
    increase in deferred tax expense in 2003.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Significant components of the Company’s deferred tax
    liabilities and assets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 are
    as follows:



(In thousands)

Deferred tax liabilities:

Long-term debt

$

2,488

$

2,078

Foreign

9,110

—

Total deferred tax liabilities

11,598

2,078

Deferred tax assets:

Intangibles and fixed assets

48,844

72,081

Accrued expenses

—

1,226

Foreign

—

1,488

Investments

11,687

11,013

Net operating loss carryforwards

7,378

—

Bad debt reserves

3,178

3,391

Deferred income


1,449

Prepaid expense

—


Other

7,931

8,548

Total gross deferred tax assets

79,754

99,395

Valuation allowance

77,266

—

Total deferred tax assets

2,488

99,395

Net deferred tax assets
    (liabilities)

$

(9,110

)

$

97,317

The valuation allowance was recorded due to the uncertainty of
    the ability to generate sufficient taxable income necessary to
    realize certain deferred tax assets in future years. If, at a
    later date, it is determined that due to a change in
    circumstances, the Company will utilize all or a portion of
    those deferred tax assets, the Company will reverse the
    corresponding valuation allowance with the offset to income tax
    benefit.

The deferred tax asset related to intangibles and fixed assets
    primarily relates to the difference in book and tax basis of tax
    deductible goodwill created from the Company’s various
    stock acquisitions. In accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 142,

Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets

, the Company no longer amortizes goodwill.
    Thus, a deferred tax benefit for the difference between book and
    tax amortization for the Company’s tax-deductible goodwill
    is no longer recognized, as these assets are no longer amortized
    for book purposes. As the Company continues to amortize its tax
    basis in its tax deductible goodwill, the deferred tax asset
    will decrease over time.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The reconciliation of income tax computed at the United States
    federal statutory tax rates to income tax expense (benefit) is:




(In thousands)

Income tax expense (benefit) at
    statutory rates

$

(24,196

)

$

5,154

$

23,928

State income taxes, net of federal
    tax benefit

(5,218

)

4,825

10,345

Foreign taxes

8,457

(7,084

)

(15,610

)

Nondeductible items

1,365

1,105

1,101

Tax contingencies

—

(6,064

)

22,305

Minority interest

—



Loss on sale of subsidiary

—

—

(31,621

)

Change in valuation allowance

77,266

—

—

Other, net

3,814



$

61,488

$

(1,535

)

$

11,335

During 2005, the Company recorded tax expense of approximately
    $61.5 million on losses before income tax of
    $69.1 million. As a result of the determination by the
    Company that it may not be able to realize certain deferred tax
    assets in the future, the Company recorded a valuation allowance
    of approximately $77.3 million in 2005.

During 2004, the Company recorded a tax benefit of approximately
    $1.5 million on income before income taxes of
    $14.7 million. Foreign income before income taxes was
    approximately $53.6 million for 2004. As a result of the
    favorable resolution of certain tax contingencies, current tax
    expense (benefit) for the year ended December 31, 2004 was
    reduced approximately $11.0 million. In 2004, certain of
    the Company’s Internal Revenue Service audits were settled
    and certain tax contingencies, which had previously been
    recorded in purchase accounting with an offset to goodwill, were
    resolved. Thus, the Company reversed $11.0 million of
    interest associated with these items that had been accrued as
    tax expense in prior years as a benefit to current tax expense.
    The $11.0 million was partially offset by approximately
    $4.9 million of additional current tax expense related to
    interest expense on other tax contingencies associated with
    various tax planning items.

During 2003, the Company recorded tax expense of approximately
    $11.3 million on income before income taxes of
    $68.4 million. Foreign income before income taxes was
    approximately $42.8 million. The Company recorded
    additional current tax expense related to interest on certain
    tax contingencies of approximately $22.3 million in 2003.
    In addition, the Company recorded a tax benefit of
    $31.6 million related to the loss on the disposition of
    certain subsidiaries.

Prior to the Separation, certain tax liabilities owed by the
    Company were remitted to the appropriate taxing authority by
    Clear Channel Communications and were accounted for as non-cash
    capital contributions by Clear Channel Communications to the
    Company. To the extent tax benefits of the Company were utilized
    by Clear Channel Communications, they were accounted for as
    non-cash dividends from the Company to Clear Channel
    Communications. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
    and 2003, Clear Channel Communications utilized
    $76.7 million, $64.1 million and $92.6 million,
    respectively, of the Company’s tax benefit.

NOTE J — BUSINESS/SHAREHOLDERS’
    EQUITY

Dividends

The Company presently intends to retain future earnings, if any,
    to finance the expansion of our business. Therefore, it does not
    expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.
    Moreover, the terms of our



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

senior secured credit facility and the designations of our
    preferred stock limit the amount of funds which the Company will
    have available to declare and distribute as dividends on our
    common stock. Payment of future cash dividends, if any, will be
    at the discretion of its board of directors in accordance with
    applicable law after taking into account various factors,
    including our financial condition, operating results, current
    and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and contractual
    restrictions with respect to the payment of dividends.

Stock
    Options — Live Nation

The Company has granted options to purchase its common stock to
    employees and directors of the Company and its affiliates under
    its 2005 Stock Incentive Plan at no less than the fair market
    value of the underlying stock on the date of grant. These
    options are granted for a term not exceeding ten years and are
    forfeited in the event the employee or director terminates his
    or her employment or relationship with the Company or one of its
    affiliates. The stock incentive plan contains anti-dilutive
    provisions that requires the adjustment of the number of shares
    of the Company’s common stock represented by, and the
    exercise price of, each option for any stock splits or stock
    dividends.

The following table presents a summary of the Company’s
    stock options outstanding at and stock option activity during
    the year ended December 31, 2005 (“Price”
    reflects the weighted average exercise price per share):


Options

Price

(In thousands,

except per

share data)

Outstanding, beginning of year

—

$

—

Granted

2,078

10.60

Exercised

—

—

Forfeited or expired

—

—

Outstanding, end of year

2,078

$

10.60

Exercisable, end of year

—

—

Weighted average fair value per
    option granted

$

3.51

There were 6.6 million shares available for future grants
    under the stock incentive plan at December 31, 2005.
    Vesting dates range from December 2006 to December 2010, and
    expiration dates range from December 2012 to December 2015 at
    exercise prices and average contractual lives as follows:

Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercisable

Average

Outstanding as of

Remaining

Exercise

as of

Exercise

Range of Exercise
    Prices

12/31/05

Contractual Life

Price

12/31/05

Price

(In thousands, except per share
    data)

10.01 - 20.00

2,078

7.3

$

10.60

—

$

—

The fair value for these options was estimated at the date of
    grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
    following assumptions for 2005:


Risk-free interest rate

4.71%

Dividend yield

0.0%

Volatility factors

25%

Weighted average expected life

5 - 7.5



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The weighted average fair value of stock options granted is
    required to be based on a theoretical option pricing model. In
    actuality, because the Company’s stock options are not
    traded on an exchange, option holders can receive no value nor
    derive any benefit from holding stock options under the plan
    without an increase in the market price of Live Nation stock.
    Such an increase in stock price would benefit all shareholders
    commensurately.

Stock
    Options — Clear Channel
    Communications

Prior to the Separation, Clear Channel Communications granted
    options to purchase Clear Channel Communications’ common
    stock to employees of the Company and its affiliates under
    various stock option plans at no less than the fair market value
    of the underlying stock on the date of grant. These options were
    granted for a term not exceeding ten years and are forfeited in
    the event the employee or director terminates his or her
    employment or relationship with the Company or one of its
    affiliates. All option plans contain anti-dilutive provisions
    that require the adjustment of the number of shares of the Clear
    Channel Communications’ common stock represented by, and
    the exercise price of, each option for any stock splits or stock
    dividends. At the Separation, all unvested options outstanding
    under Clear Channel Communications’ stock-based
    compensation plans that were held by the Company’s
    employees were forfeited and the vested options were forfeited
    to the extent they were not exercised within the applicable
    post-employment exercise period provided in their option
    agreements.

There were 1.1 million options exercisable under the stock
    incentive plan at December 31, 2005. Exercise prices ranged
    from $23.59 to $74.84, with a weighted average exercise price of
    $47.89, and all of these options expire by June 2006.

Clear Channel Communications calculated the fair value for these
    options at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
    option-pricing model with the following assumptions for 2005,
    2004 and 2003:




Risk-free interest rate

3.76% - 4.44%

2.21% - 4.51%

2.91% - 4.03%

Dividend yield

1.46% - 2.36%

.90% - 1.65%

0% - 1.01%

Volatility factors

25%

42% - 50%

43% - 47%

Weighted average expected life

5 - 7.5

3 - 7.5

5 - 7.5

The weighted average fair value of stock options granted is
    required to be based on a theoretical option pricing model. In
    actuality, because the Clear Channel Communications’ stock
    options are not traded on an exchange, option holders can
    receive no value nor derive any benefit from holding stock
    options under the plan without an increase in the market price
    of Clear Channel Communications’ stock.

Restricted
    Stock Awards

Prior to the Separation, Clear Channel Communications granted
    restricted stock awards to the Company’s employees
    beginning in 2004. These Clear Channel Communications common
    shares held a legend which restricted their transferability for
    a term of three to five years and are forfeited in the event the
    employee terminates his or her employment or relationship with
    the Company prior to the lapse of the restriction. The
    restricted stock awards were granted out of the Clear Channel
    Communications’ stock option plans. Additionally,
    recipients of the restricted stock awards are entitled to all
    cash dividends as of the date the award was granted. The expense
    related to these restricted stock awards is included in
    corporate expenses. All Clear Channel Communications’
    restricted stock awards held by the Company’s employees at
    the date of Separation were forfeited due to the termination of
    their employment with the Clear Channel Communications’
    group of companies.

Subsequent to the Separation, the Company has granted restricted
    stock awards to its employees. These common shares hold a legend
    which restricts their transferability for a term of three to
    five years and are forfeited in the event the employee
    terminates his or her employment or relationship with the
    Company prior



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

to the lapse of the restriction. The restricted stock awards
    were granted out of the Company’s stock incentive plan.
    Additionally, recipients of the restricted stock awards are
    entitled to all cash dividends as of the date the award was
    granted.

The following table presents a summary of the Company’s
    restricted stock awards outstanding at December 31, 2005
    (“Price” reflects the weighted average share price at
    the date of grant):


Awards

Price

(In thousands, except per share
    data)

Outstanding, beginning of year

—

$

—

Granted


10.60

Forfeited

—

—

Outstanding, end of year


$

10.60

Common
    Stock Reserved for Future Issuance

Common stock of approximately 9.0 million shares is
    reserved for future issuances under the stock incentive plan
    (including 2.1 million options and 0.3 million
    restricted stock awards currently granted).

Share
    Repurchase Program

On December 22, 2005, The Company’s Board of Directors
    authorized a $150.0 million share repurchase program
    effective immediately. The repurchase program is authorized
    through December 31, 2006, although prior to such time, the
    program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of
    December 31, 2005, 1.5 million shares have been
    repurchased for an aggregate cost of $18.0 million,
    including commissions and fees. Also, as of December 31,
    2005, $132.0 million remains available under the share
    repurchase program.

Earnings
    per Share

The Company has excluded all potentially dilutive securities
    such as unvested restricted stock and outstanding options to
    purchase common stock from the calculation of diluted net loss
    per common share because such securities are anti-dilutive. As
    of December 31, 2005, the Company had 319,121 shares
    of unvested restricted stock and 2,077,725 outstanding options
    to purchase common stock. Such securities, had they been
    dilutive, would have been considered in the computation of
    diluted net loss per common share. Earnings per share is not
    presented for any period prior to 2005 since the Company’s
    stock was not publicly traded prior to the Separation.

NOTE K — EMPLOYEE
    STOCK AND SAVINGS PLANS

Employee
    Benefit Plans

Prior to the Separation, the Company’s employees were
    eligible to participate in various 401(k) savings and other
    plans provided by Clear Channel Communications for the purpose
    of providing retirement benefits for substantially all
    employees. Both the employees and the Company made contributions
    to the plan. The Company matched a portion of an employee’s
    contribution. The Company matched 50% of the employee’s
    first 5% of pay contributed to the plan. Company matched
    contributions vest to the employees based upon their years of
    service to the Company.

Subsequent to the Separation, the Company adopted various 401(k)
    savings and other plans for the purpose of providing retirement
    benefits for substantially all employees. Both the employees and
    the Company make contributions to the plan. The Company matches
    50% of the employee’s first 5% of pay contributed to



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

the plan. Company matched contributions vest to the employees
    based upon their years of service to the Company.

Contributions to these plans of $2.1 million,
    $2.1 million and $1.6 million were charged to expense
    for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The Company’s employees were also eligible to participate
    in a non-qualified employee stock purchase plan provided by
    Clear Channel Communications. Under the plan, shares of Clear
    Channel Communications’ common stock could be purchased at
    85% of the market value on the day of purchase. Employees could
    purchase shares having a value not exceeding 10% of their annual
    gross compensation or $25,000, whichever is lower. During 2005,
    2004 and 2003, all Clear Channel Communications employees
    purchased 222,789, 262,163 and 266,978 shares at weighted
    average share prices of $28.79, $32.05 and $34.01, respectively.
    The Company’s employees represent approximately 6% of the
    total participation in this plan. Subsequent to the Separation,
    the Company did not adopt a non-qualified employee stock
    purchase plan.

Prior to the Separation, certain highly compensated executives
    of the Company were eligible to participate in a non-qualified
    deferred compensation plan provided by Clear Channel
    Communications, which allowed deferrals up to 50% of their
    annual salary and up to 80% of their bonus before taxes. The
    Company did not match any deferral amounts. Clear Channel
    Communications retained ownership of all assets until
    distributed and recorded the liability under this deferred
    compensation plan. In connection with the Separation, Clear
    Channel Communications transferred to the Company the asset and
    liability related to the deferrals made by the Company’s
    employees.

Subsequent to the Separation, the Company adopted a
    non-qualified deferred compensation plan for highly compensated
    executives and directors. The plan allows executives to defer up
    to 50% of their annual salary and up to 80% of their bonus
    before taxes and allows directors to defer up to 100% of their
    compensation. Matching contributions are made at the sole
    discretion of the Company’s compensation committee and the
    Company retains ownership of all assets until distributed. The
    liability under the deferred compensation plan at
    December 31, 2005 was approximately $1.7 million which
    is recorded in other long-term liabilities.

NOTE L — OTHER
    INFORMATION

For the Year Ended
    December 31,




(In thousands)

The following details the
    components of “Other income
    (expense) — net”:

Interest income

$

2,506

$

3,221

$

6,870

Minority interest expense

(5,236

)

(3,300

)

(3,280

)

Other, net

(446

)

(1,611

)

(366

)

Total other income
    (expense) — net

$

(3,176

)

$

(1,690

)

$

3,224



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of
    December 31,



(In thousands)

The following details the
    components of “Other current assets”:

Investments in theatrical
    productions

$

9,955

$

13,275

Inventory

5,587

4,600

Assets held in escrow

23,273

22,109

Current portion of debt issuance
    costs


—

Other

7,480

2,022

Total other current assets

$

46,714

$

42,006

The following details the
    components of “Other assets”:

Prepaid management and booking fees

$

10,724

$

10,300

Prepaid rent

6,889

4,791

Long-term portion of debt issuance
    costs

2,586

—

Other

6,933

6,662

Total other assets

$

27,132

$

21,753

The following details the
    components of “Accrued expenses”:

Accrued event expenses

$

98,359

$

77,402

Collections on behalf of others

71,823

85,129

Current deferred tax liabilities

9,110

—

Accrued
    expenses — other

226,215

199,747

Total accrued expenses

$

405,507

$

362,278

The following details the
    components of “Other long-term liabilities”:

Tax contingencies

$

16,745

$

70,804

Deferred income

4,973

5,557

Other

9,048

12,636

Total other long-term liabilities

$

30,766

$

88,997

NOTE M — SEGMENT
    DATA

The Company has two reportable operating
    segments — global music and global theater. The
    Company’s global music business principally involves the
    operation of venues and the promotion or production of live
    music shows and tours by music artists. The Company’s
    global theater business operates venues and presents and
    produces touring and other theatrical performances. Revenue and
    expenses earned and charged between segments are recorded at
    fair value and eliminated in consolidation within the applicable
    segment. Corporate expenses, interest expense, equity in
    earnings (loss) of nonconsolidated affiliates, other income
    (expense) — net and income taxes are managed on a
    total company basis. There are no customers that individually
    account for more than ten percent of the combined revenues in
    any year.

“Other” includes specialized motor sports and sports
    representation.



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Global

Global

Consolidated and

Music

Theater

Other

Corporate

Combined

(In thousands)


Revenue

$

2,321,302

$

317,038

$

298,505

$

—

$

2,936,845

Divisional operating expenses

2,226,165

303,098

300,569

—

2,829,832

Depreciation and amortization

39,421

15,236

5,969

3,996

64,622

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    assets

(806

)


3,598

2,065

4,859

Corporate expenses

—

—

—

50,715

50,715

Operating income (loss)

$

56,522

$

(1,298

)

$

(11,631

)

$

(56,776

)

$

(13,183

)

Identifiable assets

$

1,082,608

$

350,097

$

185,574

$

158,305

$

1,776,584

Capital expenditures

$

41,825

$

33,078

$

10,289

$

7,328

$

92,520


Revenue

$

2,201,007

$

313,974

$

291,147

$

—

$

2,806,128

Divisional operating expenses

2,081,945

278,327

285,021

—

2,645,293

Depreciation and amortization

37,043

14,709

7,406

4,937

64,095

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    assets

(3,438

)

(58

)

9,867

—

6,371

Corporate expenses

—

—

—

31,386

31,386

Operating income (loss)

$

85,457

$

20,996

$

(11,147

)

$

(36,323

)

$

58,983

Identifiable assets

$

807,212

$

391,523

$

138,907

$

141,064

$

1,478,706

Capital expenditures

$

33,581

$

32,698

$

3,085

$

4,071

$

73,435


Revenue

$

2,069,857

$

318,219

$

319,826

$

—

$

2,707,902

Divisional operating expenses

1,924,132

282,320

300,183

—

2,506,635

Depreciation and amortization

35,262

13,161

9,626

5,387

63,436

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    assets

(863

)


(139

)

—

(978

)

Corporate expenses

—

—

—

30,820

30,820

Operating income (loss)

$

111,326

$

22,714

$

10,156

$

(36,207

)

$

107,989

Identifiable assets

$

825,212

$

401,615

$

135,999

$

132,889

$

1,495,715

Capital expenditures

$

33,494

$

30,209

$

4,571

$

1,662

$

69,936



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Revenue of $905.6 million, $776.1 million and
    $680.0 million were derived from the Company’s foreign
    operations, of which $427.8 million, $353.7 million
    and $313.0 million were derived from the Company’s
    operations in the United Kingdom for the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
    Identifiable assets of $597.6 million, $424.4 million
    and $348.7 million were derived from the Company’s
    foreign operations of which $299.3 million,
    $174.9 million and $160.6 million were derived from
    the Company’s operations in the United Kingdom for the
    years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

NOTE N — QUARTERLY
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)

March 31,

June 30,

September 30,

December 31,









(In thousands, except per share
    data)

Revenue

$

444,483

$

529,035

$

741,691

$

743,679

$

998,414

$

989,165

$

752,257

$

544,249

Operating expenses:

Divisional operating expenses

437,665

505,947

703,545

706,256

909,421

895,582

779,201

537,508

Depreciation and amortization

15,477

16,210

15,282

15,517

15,633

15,772

18,230

16,596

Loss (gain) on sale of operating
    assets

(357

)

(9

)

(260

)

7,118



5,285

(1,029

)

Corporate expenses

19,224

6,594

7,866

6,732

11,301

6,651

12,324

11,409

Operating income (loss)

(27,526

)


15,258

8,056

61,868

70,869

(62,783

)

(20,235

)

Interest expense





1,177


3,388


Interest expense with Clear Channel
    Communications

11,188

10,439

10,827

9,010

13,704

13,101

10,718

9,805

Equity in earnings (loss) of
    nonconsolidated affiliates


1,912

(2,129

)


1,776


(433

)

(325

)

Other income (expense)
    — net


(512

)


(543

)

(5,291

)

(382

)


(253

)

Income (loss) before income taxes

(37,879

)

(9,488

)

1,617

(1,382

)

43,472

57,134

(76,341

)

(31,539

)

Income tax (expense) benefit

15,152

(989

)

(647

)

(144

)

(17,389

)

5,958

(58,604

)

(3,290

)

Net income (loss)

$

(22,727

)

$

(10,477

)

$


$

(1,526

)

$

26,083

$

63,092

$

(134,945

)

$

(34,829

)

Basic and diluted net income (loss)
    per common share

$

(2.02

)

Dividends declared per share

$

—

Stock Price:

High

$

14.00

Low

$

10.55



NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED AND COMBINED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock
    Exchange under the symbol LYV.

NOTE O — SUBSEQUENT
    EVENTS

In January 2006, the Company sold a portion of its sports talent
    representation business assets located in Los Angeles for
    $12 million in cash.

In March 2006, the Company entered into two separate interest
    rate swaps for which it purchased a series of interest rate caps
    and sold a series of interest rate floors. These agreements were
    put in place to eliminate or reduce the variability of a portion
    of the cash flows from the interest payments related to the
    Senior Secured Credit Facility. The terms of the Senior Secured
    Credit Facility require that an interest rate swap be put in
    place for at least 50% of the outstanding debt and for at least
    3 years. The purchased caps are for a notional amount of
    $162.5 million for a three-year period at a fixed rate of
    5.105%. The sold floors are for a notional amount of
    $121.9 million for a three-year period at a fixed rate of
    5.105%. The Company paid no up-front fees related to this
    transaction and the swaps meet the criteria for a cash flow
    hedge in accordance with FASB Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments
    and Hedging Activities.



Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures

Introduction

Live Nation became subject to the periodic and other reporting
    requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    on December 21, 2005, the date of our Separation from Clear
    Channel Communications.

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Live Nation (the “Company”) has established disclosure
    controls and procedures to ensure that material information
    relating to the Company, including its consolidated
    subsidiaries, is made known to the officers who certify the
    Company’s financial reports and to other members of senior
    management and the Board of Directors. It should be noted that,
    because of inherent limitations, our disclosure controls and
    procedures, however well designed and operated, can provide only
    reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of
    the disclosure controls and procedures are met.

Based on their evaluation as of December 31, 2005, the
    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the
    Company have concluded that the Company’s disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in

Rules 13a-15(e)

and

15d-15(e)

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are effective to
    ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the
    Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC
    rules and forms.

Management’s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting

As a result of our registration with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, we will be required to comply with Section 404
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and regulations promulgated
    thereunder as of December 31, 2006. We are currently
    performing the system and process evaluation and testing
    required in an effort to comply with management certification
    and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404.

Item 9B.

Other
    Information

Not applicable.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors
    and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Set forth below are the names and ages and current positions of
    our executive officers, current directors and significant
    employees as of December 31, 2005. Each director will serve
    for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in the
    year indicated below. See “— Composition of the
    Board of Directors” below.

Term as

Name

Age

Position

Director

Henry Cisneros


Director

Expires 2009

Jeffrey T. Hinson


Director

Expires 2008

L. Lowry Mays


Director

Expires 2007

Mark P. Mays


Vice Chairman of the Board of
    Directors

Expires 2008

Randall T. Mays


Chairman of the Board of Directors

Expires 2009

Connie McCombs McNab


Director

Expires 2009

John N. Simons, Jr.


Director

Expires 2007

Timothy P. Sullivan


Director

Expires 2008

Michael Rapino


President and Chief Executive
    Officer and Director

Expires 2007

Alan Ridgeway


Chief Financial Officer

Kathy Willard


Chief Accounting Officer

Faisel Durrani


President — Marketing

Bruce Eskowitz


President — Global
    Venue Management

and Sponsorships

Arthur Fogel


Chairman — Global
    Music

Thomas O. Johansson


Chairman — International
    Music

David I. Lane


Chairman — Global
    Theatre and Chief Executive

Officer — European Theatre

Bryan Perez


President — Interactive

Carl B. Pernow


President — International
    Music

Charles S. Walker


President — North
    American Live Music

Steve K. Winton


Chief Executive
    Officer — North American Theater

Henry Cisneros

has been a director since December 2005.
    Mr. Cisneros has been the Chairman of American CityVista
    and City View since August 2000. From January 1997 to August
    2000, Mr. Cisneros was the President of Univision
    Communications. Prior thereto, Mr. Cisneros served as the
    Secretary of the United States Department of Housing and
    Urban Development and was a four-term Mayor of San Antonio,
    Texas. Mr. Cisneros serves on the board of Countrywide
    Financial.

Jeffrey T. Hinson

has been a director since December
    2005. From July to December 2005, he was a consultant to
    Univision Communications Inc., a Spanish language media company
    in the United States. Mr. Hinson served as Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of Univision
    Communications from March 2004 to June 2005. He served as Senior
    Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Univision Radio,
    the radio division of Univision Communications, from September
    2003 to March 2004. From 1997 to 2003, Mr. Hinson served as
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Hispanic
    Broadcasting Corporation, which was acquired by Univision
    Communications in 2003 and became the radio division of
    Univision Communications.

L. Lowry Mays

has served as a member of our Board of
    Directors since our formation in 2005. Mr. Mays is the
    Chairman of the Board of Clear Channel Communications, Inc.,
    which he founded in 1972, and prior to October 2004 he was that
    company’s Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Mays has been a
    member of Clear Channel Communications’ board of directors
    since its inception. He is currently Chairman of the Board of
    Clear



Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc. and has served on the board since
    1997. Mr. Mays is the father of Mark P. Mays and Randall T.
    Mays, both of whom are members of our Board of Directors.

Mark P. Mays

is Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors
    and has served as a member of the board since our formation in
    2005. Mr. Mays is Chief Executive Officer of Clear Channel
    Communications and has served on the board of directors of Clear
    Channel Communications since May 1998. Prior thereto, he served
    as the Interim Chief Executive Officer and President and Chief
    Operating Officer of Clear Channel Communications from May 2004
    to October 2004 and as the President and Chief Operating Officer
    of Clear Channel Communications for the remainder of the
    relevant five-year period. Since 1997, Mr. Mays has served
    on the board of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.
    Mr. Mark Mays is the son of L. Lowry Mays, Clear Channel
    Communications’ Chairman and one of our board members, and
    the brother of Randall T. Mays, Clear Channel
    Communications’ President and Chief Financial Officer and
    Chairman of our Board of Directors. Mr. Mays is also a
    member of the board of directors of Clear Media Limited.

Randall T. Mays

is Chairman of our Board of Directors and
    from April to August 2005 he served as our Interim Chief
    Executive Officer. He also serves as the President and Chief
    Financial Officer of Clear Channel Communications. He has served
    as a member of our Board of Directors since our formation, has
    served on the board of directors of Clear Channel Communications
    since April 1999, and has served on the board of Clear Channel
    Outdoor Holdings, Inc. since 1997. Mr. Randall Mays is the
    son of L. Lowry Mays, Clear Channel Communications, Inc.’s
    Chairman and one of our board members, and the brother of Mark
    P. Mays, Clear Channel Communications’ Chief Executive
    Officer and Vice Chairman of our Board of Directors.

Connie McCombs McNab

has been a director since December
    2005. Mrs. McNab served as Chair of the Board of Trustees
    for Saint Luke’s Episcopal School from 2000 to 2002 and has
    served as a board member for Saint Luke’s Episcopal School
    since 1997. She has served as a board member of Saint
    Mary’s Hall since 2001 and has served on the board of the
    McNay Art Institute since 2004.

John N. Simons, Jr.

has been a director since
    December 2005. From 2002 to 2005, he served as President and
    Chief Executive Officer of Swift & Company.
    Mr. Simons served as President and Chief Operating Officer
    of ConAgra Red Meats, Inc. from 1999 to 2002.

Timothy P. Sullivan

has been a director since December
    2005. Mr. Sullivan has been the Chief Executive Officer of
    My Family.com, Inc. since September 2005 and is the Chief
    Executive Officer of Group Publisher, Inc., a company he founded
    in July 2005. From February 2001 to September 2004,
    Mr. Sullivan was the Chief Executive Officer of Match.com.
    Prior to joining Match.com, Mr. Sullivan served as Vice
    President of

e-commerce

for Ticketmaster’s predecessor, Ticketmaster
    Online-Citysearch, Inc.

Michael Rapino

is our Chief Executive Officer and has
    served in this capacity since August 2005. He has also been on
    our Board of Directors since December 2005. From August 2004 to
    August 2005, Mr. Rapino was Chief Executive Officer and
    President of our Global Music division. From July 2003 to July
    2004, Mr. Rapino served as Chief Executive Officer and
    President of our International Music division. From July 2001 to
    2003, Mr. Rapino served as Chief Executive Officer of our
    European Music division. Prior to July 2001, Mr. Rapino was
    an executive in our marketing services group.

Alan Ridgeway

is our Chief Financial Officer and has
    served in this capacity since September 2005. Prior to that,
    Mr. Ridgeway served as President of our European Music
    division. From October 2003 to 2004, Mr. Ridgeway was Chief
    Operating Officer of the European Music division.
    Mr. Ridgeway served as Chief Financial Officer for the
    European Music division from January 2002 to October 2003. For
    the balance of the relevant period, he was Finance Director for
    Hertz

Rent-A-Car’s

French operation.

Kathy Willard

is our Executive Vice-President and Chief
    Accounting Officer and has served in this capacity since
    September 2005. Prior to that, Ms. Willard served as Chief
    Financial Officer of Clear Channel Entertainment from December
    2004 to September 2005. From January 2001 to December 2004 she
    served as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of
    Clear Channel Entertainment. For the balance of the relevant
    period, Ms. Willard served as Vice President and Controller
    for Clear Channel Entertainment.



Faisel Durrani

is our President of Marketing and has
    served in this capacity since April 2005. Prior to that,
    Mr. Durrani served as Executive Vice-President of
    International Marketing for the Island Def Jam Music Group from
    February 2002 to March 2005. For the balance of the relevant
    period, Mr. Durrani served as President of Palm Pictures.

Bruce Eskowitz

is the President of our Global
    Venues/Sponsorship division and has served in this capacity
    since October 2005. Prior to that, he served as President and
    Chief Executive Officer of our Properties division from 2004 to
    October 2005. Prior to 2004 and for the remainder of the
    relevant period, Mr. Eskowitz was President of our National
    Sales and Marketing division.

Arthur Fogel

is the Chairman of our Global Music division
    and has served in this capacity since 2005. Prior to that,
    Mr. Fogel served as President of our Music Touring division
    since 1999.

Thomas O. Johansson

is the Chairman of our International
    Music division and has served in this capacity since September
    2004. Prior to that, Mr. Johansson served as the Chief
    Executive Officer of our subsidiary EMA Telstar Group, a company
    he founded in April 1969 and which we acquired in 1999.

David I. Lane

is the Chairman of our Global Theatre
    division and Chief Executive Officer of our European Theatre
    division and has served in these capacities since 2005 and 2001,
    respectively. Prior to 2001, he served as Managing Director of
    our UK Theatre division.

Bryan Perez

is the President of our Interactive group and
    has served in this capacity since September 2005. Prior to that,
    Mr. Perez served as our Executive Vice
    President — Strategy and Business Development.
    From October 2002 through 2004, Mr. Perez was Executive
    Vice President — Marketing and Communications for
    the Dallas Stars Hockey Club. For the balance of the relevant
    period, he was Executive Vice
    President — Business Development for Southwest
    Sports Group, LLC.

Carl B. Pernow

is the President of our International
    Music division and has served in this capacity since September
    2005. From 2004 to September 2005 he served as the Chief
    Financial Officer for our European Music division. From 1995 to
    2004, he served as the Chief Financial Officer for our EMA
    Telstar Group, which the Company acquired in 1999.

Charles S. Walker

is the President of our North American
    Music division and has served in this capacity since September
    2005. Prior to that, Mr. Walker served as the Chief
    Operating Officer for our North American Music division. From
    2000 to 2002, 2002 to 2003, and 2003 to 2004 he served as a
    Senior Vice President of the Southwest, Northeast and West
    regions of Clear Channel Entertainment’s North American
    Music division, respectively, and in 2000 he was a General
    Manager in our North American Music division.

Steven K. Winton

is the Chief Executive Officer of our
    North American Theater division and has served in this capacity
    since May 2005. From January through March, 2005,
    Mr. Winton was President and Chief Operating Officer of the
    Naples Philharmonic Center in Naples Florida. In 2004,
    Mr. Winton served as the President of our North American
    Theater division. Prior to that, Mr. Winton was the Chief
    Operating Officer of our European Theater division from 2002 to
    2003. For the balance of the relevant period, Mr. Winton
    was an Executive Vice President of our European Theatre division.

Governance
    Guidelines

Our Board of Directors has adopted a set of written Board of
    Directors Governance Guidelines that form the framework for the
    governance policies and practices that we have established to
    assist in governing the Company. All of our corporate governance
    material, including the governance guidelines, code of business
    conduct and ethics and each of our committee charters, are
    posted on our website at

www.livenation.com.

Copies of
    our corporate governance material are also available to
    shareholders who request them. Requests must be in writing and
    sent to: Secretary, Live Nation, Inc., 9348 Civic Center Drive,
    Beverly Hills, California 90210.



Composition
    of the Board of Directors

Our Board of Directors currently consists of nine directors,
    five of whom are independent (as defined by our governance
    guidelines and the listing standards of the New York Stock
    Exchange (“NYSE”)) and one of whom is our Chief
    Executive Officer. For a director to be independent, the Board
    of Directors must determine that the director does not have any
    direct or indirect material relationship with the Company. The
    Board of Directors has established guidelines to assist it in
    determining director independence, which conform to, or are more
    exacting than, the independence requirements of the NYSE. The
    independence guidelines are set forth in Appendix A of our
    governance guidelines.

Our directors are divided into three classes serving staggered
    three year terms. At each annual meeting of our shareholders,
    directors will be elected to succeed the class of directors
    whose terms have expired. Class I directors’ terms
    will expire at the 2007 annual meeting of our shareholders,
    Class II directors’ terms will expire at the 2008
    annual meeting of our shareholders and Class III
    directors’ terms will expire at the 2009 annual meeting of
    our shareholders. L. Lowry Mays, John N. Simons, Jr. and
    Michael Rapino initially will be our Class I directors,
    Jeffrey T. Hinson, Mark P. Mays and Timothy P. Sullivan
    initially will be our Class II directors and Henry
    Cisneros, Randall T. Mays and Connie McCombs McNab will
    initially be our Class III directors. Our classified Board
    of Directors could have the effect of increasing the length of
    time necessary to change the composition of a majority of our
    Board. Generally, at least two annual meetings of shareholders
    will be necessary for shareholders to effect a change in a
    majority of the members of the Board of Directors.

Committees
    of the Board of Directors

The standing committees of our Board of Directors are an Audit
    Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee and Compensation
    Committee, each of which is described below.

Audit
    Committee

The three independent (as defined in the NYSE listing standards)
    Audit Committee members are Jeffrey T. Hinson, who is the
    Chairman, John N. Simons, Jr. and Timothy P. Sullivan.
    Mr. Hinson has been designated by our Board of Directors as
    the Audit Committee financial expert (as defined in the
    applicable regulations of the Securities and Exchange
    Commission). The Audit Committee operates under a written
    charter adopted by the Board of Directors which reflects
    standards set forth in SEC regulations and NYSE rules. The
    composition and responsibilities of the Audit Committee and the
    attributes of its members, as reflected in the charter, are
    intended to be in accordance with applicable requirements for
    corporate audit committees. The charter will be reviewed, and
    amended if necessary, on an annual basis. The full text of the
    Audit Committee’s charter can be found on our website at

www.livenation.com

or may be obtained upon request from
    our Secretary.

As set forth in more detail in the charter, the Audit
    Committee’s purpose is to assist the Board of Directors in
    its general oversight of the Company’s financial reporting,
    internal control and audit functions. The Company’s
    internal audit department will document, test and evaluate our
    internal control over financial reporting in response to the
    requirements set forth in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002 and related regulations. The responsibilities of the
    Audit Committee will include:

•

recommending the hiring or termination of the independent
    registered public accounting firm and approving any non-audit
    work performed by such firm;

•

approving the overall scope of the audit;

•

assisting our Board of Directors in monitoring the integrity of
    our financial statements, the independent registered public
    accounting firm’s qualifications and independence, the
    performance of the independent registered public accounting firm
    and our internal audit function and our compliance with legal
    and regulatory requirements;

•

annually reviewing our independent registered public accounting
    firm’s report describing the independent registered public
    accounting firm’s internal quality control procedures, any
    material issues raised by the most recent internal quality
    control review, or peer review, of the firm;



•

discussing the annual audited financial and quarterly statements
    with our management and the independent registered public
    accounting firm;

•

discussing earnings press releases, as well as financial
    information and earnings guidance provided to analysts and
    rating agencies;

•

discussing policies with respect to risk assessment and risk
    management;

•

meeting separately, periodically, with management, internal
    auditors and the independent registered public accounting firm;

•

reviewing with the independent registered public accounting firm
    any audit problems or difficulties and management’s
    response;

•

setting clear hiring policies for employees or former employees
    of the independent auditors;

•

annually reviewing the adequacy of the audit committee’s
    written charter;

•

reviewing with management any legal matters that may have a
    material impact on us; and

•

reporting regularly to our full Board of Directors.

Nominating
    and Governance Committee

The Nominating and Governance Committee members are Henry
    Cisneros, who is Chairman, and Connie McCombs McNab. The
    Nominating and Governance Committee operates under a written
    charter adopted by the Board of Directors. The committee is
    primarily responsible for assembling, reviewing background
    information for and recommending candidates for our Board of
    Directors, including those candidates designated by our
    shareholders. The committee also makes recommendations to our
    Board of Directors regarding the structure and membership of the
    other board committees, annually reviews director compensation
    and benefits and oversees annual self-evaluations of our Board
    of Directors and committees.

Compensation
    Committee

The Compensation Committee members are John N. Simons, Jr.,
    who is Chairman, and Timothy P. Sullivan. The Compensation
    Committee operates under a written charter adopted by the Board
    of Directors. The committee is primarily responsible for
    administering the Company’s stock incentive plan,
    performance-based annual incentive compensation plan and other
    incentive compensation plans. Also, the committee determines
    compensation arrangements for all of our executive officers and
    makes recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning
    compensation policies for us and our subsidiaries.

Code of
    Business Conduct and Ethics

We adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to
    all of our directors and employees, including our chief
    executive officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting
    officer, which is a “code of ethics” as defined by
    applicable SEC rules. This code is publicly available on our
    website at

www.livenation.com

or may be obtained upon
    request from our Secretary. If we make any amendments to this
    code, other than technical, administrative or other
    non-substantive amendments, or grant any waivers, including
    implicit waivers, from any provisions of this code that apply to
    our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief
    accounting officer and relate to an element of the SEC’s
    “code of ethics” definition, we will disclose the
    nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective date and to
    whom it applies on our website or in a report on

Form 8-K

filed with the SEC.

Section 16(a)
    Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
    requires the Company’s directors, executive officers and
    beneficial owners of more than 10% of any class of equity
    securities of Live Nation to file reports of ownership and
    changes in ownership with the SEC and the NYSE. Directors,
    executive officers and greater than 10% shareholders are
    required to furnish the Company with copies of all
    Section 16(a) forms they file.



Based solely on its review of the copies of such forms received
    by it, or written representations from certain reporting persons
    that no such forms were required to be filed by those persons,
    Live Nation believes that all such Section 16(a) filing
    requirements were satisfied during fiscal year 2005, except that
    (i) Mr. Simons was late in reporting one stock
    purchase transaction and (ii) amended Form 3 filings
    were made for Mr. Walker, Mr. Eskowitz and
    Ms. Willard and amended Form 4 filings were made for
    Mr. Rapino and Mr. Simons to correct the previously
    reported number of shares held by these individuals as a result
    of the pro rata distribution of shares of our common stock to
    the stockholders of Clear Channel Communications in the spin-off.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation

Executive
    Compensation

Live Nation was formed on August 2, 2005. The following
    table sets forth compensation information for our chief
    executive officer and our other four most highly compensated
    executive officers, based on employment with Live Nation and
    Clear Channel Communications, as determined by reference to
    total annual salary and bonus during 2005. Information for 2004
    is only included below for our named executive officers to the
    extent previously reported. All of the information included in
    this table reflects compensation earned by the individuals for
    services with Live Nation and Clear Channel Communications. We
    refer to these individuals as our “named executive
    officers” elsewhere in this Annual Report.

Summary
    Compensation Table

Long-Term Compensation

Awards

Payouts

Annual Compensation

Restricted

Other Annual

Stock

LTIP

All Other

Salary

Bonus

Compensation

Award(s)

Options

Payouts

Compensation

Name and Principal
    Position

Year

($)

($)

($) (1)

($)

(#)

($)

($)

Michael Rapino


612,500

—

—

887,750

(3)

335,000

—

—

Chief Executive Officer


467,411

200,000

—

123,793

(2)

—

—

—

Randall T. Mays*(4)


—

—

—

265,000

50,000

—

—

Former Interim Chief Executive
    Officer


Brian Becker*


398,161

—

—

—

—

—

930,250

(5)(6)

Former Chief Executive Officer


516,561

—

—

—

60,000

—

5,125

(5)

Alan Ridgeway(7)


344,158

258,199

—

662,500

(8)

—

—

34,416

Chief Financial Officer


Kathy Willard


304,583

50,000

—

—

25,000

—

5,250

(5)

Chief Accounting Officer


Bruce Eskowitz


476,010

—

—

—

200,000

—

47,787

(5)(9)

President — Global
    Venue Management and Sponsorships


Charles S. Walker


377,083

—

—

—

200,000

—

74,331

(5)(9)

President — North
    American LiveMusic




Stock
    Options

The following table sets forth certain information regarding
    stock options to acquire shares of Live Nation’s common
    stock granted to our named executive officers in 2005. The
    options are subject to the terms of the Live Nation 2005 Stock
    Incentive Plan.

Stock
    Option Grant Table

Individual Grants

Percent of

Number of

Total

Securities

Options

Underlying

Granted to

Exercise of

Grant Date

Options

Employees in

Base Price

Expiration

Present

Name

Granted (#)

Fiscal Year

($/Sh)

Date(2)

Value $(1)

Michael Rapino

335,000

16.12

%

10.60

12/22/12

1,175,850

Chief Executive Officer

Alan Ridgeway

—

—

—

—

—

Chief Financial Officer

Kathy Willard

25,000

1.20

%

10.60

12/22/12

87,750

Chief Accounting Officer

Bruce Eskowitz

200,000

9.63

%

10.60

12/22/12

702,000

President — Global
    Venue Management and Sponsorships

Charles S. Walker

200,000

9.63

%

10.60

12/22/12

702,000

President — North
    American Live Music



(1)

Present value for this option was estimated at the date of grant
    using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
    assumptions: Risk-free of 4.71%, a dividend yield of zero, a
    volatility factor of the expected market price of Live
    Nation’s common stock of 25% and the average expected life
    of 5.75 years. The present value of stock options granted
    is based on a theoretical option-pricing model. In actuality,
    because Live Nation’s stock options are not traded on an
    exchange, option holders can receive no value nor derive any
    benefit from holding stock options under these plans without an
    increase in the market price of Live Nation stock. Such an
    increase in stock price would benefit all shareholders
    commensurately.

(2)

Based on the election of these employees, these options will
    vest 25% on December 22, 2008, 25% on December 22,
    2009 and 50% on December 22, 2010.

Exercise
    of Stock Options

The following table discloses information regarding the exercise
    of stock options to acquire shares of Clear Channel
    Communications’ common stock by our named executive
    officers in 2005 and the value of unexercised Clear Channel
    Communications stock options held by the named executive
    officers. See Stock Option Grant Table above for Live Nation
    unexercisable options and values for each of the listed
    individuals.

Aggregated
    Option Exercises and Fiscal Year-End Option Value
    Table

Number of Securities

Value of Unexercised

Underlying Unexercised

in-the-Money

Options at

Options at

Shares Acquired

Fiscal Year-End (#)

Fiscal Year-End ($)

Name

on Exercise (#)

Value Realized ($)

Exercisable/Unexercisable

Exercisable/Unexercisable

Michael Rapino

—

—

0/0

0/0

Chief Executive Officer

Alan Ridgeway

—

—

0/0

0/0

Chief Financial Officer

Kathy Willard

—

—

15,888/0

5,813/0

Chief Accounting Officer

Bruce Eskowitz

—

—

35,250/0

0/0

President — Global

Venue Management and Sponsorships

Charles S. Walker

—

—

6,893/0

665/0

President — North

American Live Music

Director
    Compensation

We pay our non-employee directors an annual cash retainer of
    $30,000, an additional $1,500 for each board meeting attended
    and an additional $1,000 for each committee meeting attended. We
    may also grant stock options or other stock-based awards to our
    non-employee directors, and non-employee directors may elect to
    receive their fees in the form of shares of our common stock. We
    pay the chairpersons of the audit committee, compensation
    committee and nominating and governance committee an additional
    annual cash retainer of approximately $10,000, $5,000 and
    $5,000, respectively.

Employment
    Agreements

Michael Rapino.

On August 17, 2005, we
    entered into an Employment Agreement with Michael Rapino. The
    initial term of the agreement ends on August 31, 2007; the
    term automatically extends one day at a time beginning on
    August 31, 2007, until one party gives the other one
    year’s notice of termination. The contract calls for
    Mr. Rapino to receive a base salary of $550,000 per
    year. Mr. Rapino is also eligible to receive a performance
    bonus as decided at the sole discretion of the Compensation
    Committee of our Board of Directors. We may terminate
    Mr. Rapino’s employment at any time after
    August 31, 2007, without “Cause” by giving him a
    one year written notice. We may also terminate
    Mr. Rapino’s employment at any time with



“Cause,” as defined in the agreement. If
    Mr. Rapino is terminated without “Cause,” he is
    entitled to receive a lump sum payment of accrued and unpaid
    base salary and prorated bonus, if any, and any payments to
    which he may be entitled under any applicable employee benefit
    plan. In addition, he would have the option to elect to become a
    part-time consultant to us for one year, and agree not to
    compete with us during that time, in exchange for severance pay
    equal to his base salary and acceleration of certain stock
    options. In the event that we experience a “Change of
    Control” (other than in connection with the spin-off), all
    of Mr. Rapino’s outstanding stock options will become
    fully exercisable and any restricted stock will no longer be
    restricted. Mr. Rapino is prohibited by his employment
    agreement from soliciting our employees for employment for
    12 months after termination regardless of the reason for
    termination of employment.

Alan Ridgeway.

On November 28, 2005, we
    entered into an employment agreement with Alan Ridgeway. The
    initial term of the employment agreement ends on
    December 31, 2006; the term automatically extends one day
    at a time for twelve months beginning on December 31, 2006,
    so that commencing on January 1, 2007 and continuing for so
    long thereafter as he remains employed, there will always be
    exactly one year remaining in the term of the agreement.
    Mr. Ridgeway receives a base salary of $400,000 per year,
    which is subject to annual increases in accordance with company
    policy. Mr. Ridgeway is also eligible to receive a base
    salary bonus for 2006 and 2007 aggregating approximately
    $80,000, and performance bonuses for each calendar year during
    the term of the contract. We may terminate the contract without
    cause at any time after December 31, 2006. The contract
    allows us to summarily terminate the contract for cause. If
    Mr. Ridgeway is terminated without “Cause,” he is
    entitled to receive a lump sum payment of accrued and unpaid
    base salary and prorated bonus, if any, unreimbursed expenses
    and any payments to which he may be entitled under any
    applicable employee benefit plan. Additionally, he would have
    the option to elect to become a part-time consultant to us for
    one year, and agrees not to compete with us during that time, in
    exchange for severance pay equal to his base salary and
    reimbursement of expenses related to repatriation and
    relocation. The agreement provides that Mr. Ridgeway may
    not compete with us during the term of the agreement where we
    operate or plan to operate, including a 50 mile radius of
    such location.

Kathy Willard.

On December 22, 2004, we
    entered into an employment agreement with Ms. Willard,
    which was amended on December 1, 2005, effective as of
    January 1, 2005. The initial term of the employment
    agreement ends on December 31, 2007; the term automatically
    extends one day at a time for twelve months beginning on
    January 1, 2007, so that commencing on January 1, 2008
    and continuing for so long thereafter as she remains employed,
    there will always be exactly one year remaining in the term of
    the agreement. Under the employment agreement, she receives a
    base salary of $300,000 per year, which is subject to
    annual increases in accordance with company policy.
    Ms. Willard is also eligible to receive a performance bonus
    targeted at $90,000; provided, however, for 2005 she will
    receive a guaranteed minimum performance bonus of $50,000. We
    may terminate the contract for any reason at any time. We may
    also terminate Ms. Willard’s employment at any time
    with “Cause,” as defined in the agreement. If
    Ms. Willard is terminated without “Cause,” she is
    entitled to receive a lump sum payment of accrued and unpaid
    base salary and prorated bonus, if any, and any payments to
    which she may be entitled under any applicable employee benefit
    plan. In addition, if Ms. Willard signs a general release
    of claims, she will be entitled to receive a lump sum payment
    equal to twelve months of her annual base salary. The agreement
    provides that Ms. Willard may not compete with us during
    the term of the agreement and for one year thereafter where we
    operate or plan to operate, including within a 50 mile
    radius of such location.

Compensation
    Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation in Compensation
    Decisions

None of our executive officers serve as a member of the
    compensation committee or as a member of the board of directors
    of any other company of which any member of our Compensation
    Committee or Board of Directors is an executive officer.



Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Shareholder Matters

The table below sets forth information concerning the beneficial
    ownership of Live Nation common stock as of February 28,
    2006, for each director currently serving on the board; each of
    the named executive officers not listed as a director, the
    directors and executive officers as a group and each person
    known to Live Nation to own beneficially more than 5% of
    outstanding common stock. At the close of business on
    February 28, 2006, there were 67,174,912 shares of
    Live Nation common stock outstanding. Except as otherwise noted,
    each shareholder has sole voting and investment power with
    respect to the shares beneficially owned.

Amount and Nature

of Beneficial

Name of Beneficial
    Owner

Ownership

Percent

Henry Cisneros

12,000

*

Jeffrey T. Hinson

10,000

*

L. Lowry Mays(1)

3,565,898

5.6

%

Mark P. Mays(2)

206,399

*

Randall T. Mays(3)

158,259

*

Connie McCombs McNab(4)

270,071

*

John N. Simons, Jr.

22,325

*

Timothy P. Sullivan

10,000

*

Michael Rapino

85,350

*

Alan Ridgeway

62,500

*

Kathy Willard


*

Bruce Eskowitz


*

Charles S. Walker


*

FMR Corp.(5)

10,127,048

15.8

%

Wellington Management Company,
    LLP(6)

6,933,726

10.8

%

Capital Research and Management
    Company(7)

4,198,850

6.6

%

Alson Capital Partners, LLC(8)

4,121,000

6.4

%

All directors and executive
    officers as a group (13 persons)(9)

4,403,160

6.9

%



Equity
    Compensation Plans

The following table summarizes information, as of
    December 31, 2005, relating to Live Nation’s equity
    compensation pursuant to which grants of options, restricted
    stock or other rights to acquire shares may be granted from time
    to time.

Number of

Number of Securities

Securities to be

Remaining Available

Issued Upon

Weighted-Average

for Future Issuance Under

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

Equity Compensation

Outstanding

Outstanding

Plans (Excluding Securities

Options, Warrants

Options, Warrants

Reflected in Column

Plan Category

and Rights

and Rights

(a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved
    by security holders(1)

2,396,846

$

10.60

6,603,154

Equity compensation plans not
    approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

2,396,846

$

10.60

6,603,154

(1)

This equity compensation plan was approved by our Board of
    Directors and by our former shareholder prior to the
    distribution of our common stock.

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions

We have provided below a summary description of the master
    separation and distribution agreement between Clear Channel
    Communications and us and the other key agreements that relate
    to our separation from Clear Channel Communications. This
    description, which summarizes the material terms of these
    agreements, is not complete. You should read the full text of
    these agreements, which are incorporated by reference as
    exhibits to this annual report.

Overview

The master separation and distribution agreement contains many
    of the key provisions related to our separation from Clear
    Channel Communications and the distribution of our shares to
    Clear Channel



Communications’ common stockholders. The other agreements
    referenced in the master separation and distribution agreement
    govern certain aspects relating to the separation and various
    interim and ongoing relationships between Clear Channel
    Communications and us following the Distribution. These
    agreements are:

•

the tax matters agreement;

•

the employee matters agreement;

•

the trademark and copyright license agreement; and

•

the transition services agreement.

Master
    Separation and Distribution Agreement

We entered into a master separation and distribution agreement
    with Clear Channel Communications prior to the completion of the
    Distribution. The master separation and distribution agreement
    sets forth our agreements with Clear Channel Communications
    regarding the principal transactions that were required to
    effect the transfer of assets and the assumption of liabilities
    necessary to separate our company from Clear Channel
    Communications. It also sets forth other agreements governing
    our relationship after the Distribution.

Auditors
    and Audits; Annual Financial Statements and
    Accounting

We agreed that for our 2005 fiscal year and for all fiscal years
    thereafter for so long as Clear Channel Communications is
    required to consolidate our results of operations and financial
    position with its results of operations and financial position:

•

not to select an independent registered public accounting firm
    different from Clear Channel Communications;

•

to use reasonable commercial efforts to cause our independent
    registered public accounting firm to date their opinion on our
    audited annual financial statements on the same date that Clear
    Channel Communications’ independent registered public
    accounting firm date their opinion on Clear Channel
    Communications’ consolidated financial statements and to
    enable Clear Channel Communications to meet its timetable for
    the printing, filing and the dissemination to the public of any
    of its annual financial statements;

•

to provide Clear Channel Communications with all relevant
    information that Clear Channel Communications reasonably
    requires to enable Clear Channel Communications to prepare its
    quarterly and annual financial statements for quarters or years
    that include any financial reporting period for which our
    financial results are consolidated with Clear Channel
    Communications’ financial statements;

•

to make our auditors available to Clear Channel
    Communications’ auditors so that the Clear Channel
    Communications’ auditors are able to perform any procedures
    necessary to take responsibility for our auditors’ work as
    it relates to Clear Channel Communications’ financial
    statements;

•

to provide Clear Channel Communications’ internal auditors
    with access to our books and records to enable Clear Channel
    Communications to conduct reasonable audits of our financial
    statements provided by us to Clear Channel Communications, as
    well as our internal accounting controls and procedures; and

•

to provide prior notice to Clear Channel Communications of any
    proposed determination of, or significant changes in, our
    accounting estimates or accounting principles.

Exchange
    of Other Information

The master separation and distribution agreement also provides
    for other arrangements with respect to the mutual sharing of
    information between us and Clear Channel Communications in order
    to comply with reporting, filing, audit or tax requirements, for
    use in judicial proceedings and in order to comply with our



respective obligations after the completion of the Separation.
    We also agreed to provide mutual access to historical records
    relating to the other’s businesses that may be in our
    possession.

Releases
    and Indemnification

Except for each party’s obligations under the master
    separation and distribution agreement, the other transaction
    documents and certain other specified liabilities, we and Clear
    Channel Communications have agreed to release and discharge each
    other and each of our affiliates from all liabilities existing
    or arising between us on or before the Separation, including in
    connection with the Separation, the Distribution, the preferred
    stock offering by our subsidiary and the senior secured credit
    facility. The releases do not extend to obligations or
    liabilities under any agreements between us and Clear Channel
    Communications that remain in effect following the Separation.

We agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend Clear Channel
    Communications, each of its affiliates and each of their
    respective directors, officers and employees, on an after-tax
    basis, from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out
    of or resulting from:

•

the failure by us or any of our affiliates or any other person
    or entity to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any
    liabilities or contractual obligations associated with our
    businesses, whether arising before or after the Separation;

•

the operations, liabilities and contractual obligations of our
    business, whether arising before or after the Separation;

•

any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other
    credit support arrangement by Clear Channel Communications or
    any of its affiliates for our benefit;

•

any breach by us or any of our affiliates of the master
    separation and distribution agreement, the other transaction
    documents or our amended and restated certificate of
    incorporation or amended and restated bylaws;

•

any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact
    in Clear Channel Communications’ public filings to the
    extent the statement or omission was as a result of information
    that we furnished to Clear Channel Communications or that Clear
    Channel Communications incorporated;

•

by reference from our public filings, if the statement or
    omission was made or occurred after the Distribution; and

•

any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact
    in our Form 10 registration statement related to the
    Distribution, any offering memorandum, registration statement or
    information statement related to the senior secured credit
    facility, or otherwise related to the Distribution or related
    transactions, except to the extent the statement was made or
    omitted in reliance upon information provided to us by Clear
    Channel Communications expressly for use in any such offering
    memorandum, registration statement or information statement.

Clear Channel Communications agrees to indemnify, hold harmless
    and defend us, each of our affiliates and each of our and their
    respective directors, officers and employees, on an after-tax
    basis, from and against all liabilities relating to, arising out
    of or resulting from:

•

the failure of Clear Channel Communications or any of its
    affiliates or any other person or entity to pay, perform or
    otherwise promptly discharge any liabilities of Clear Channel
    Communications or its affiliates, other than liabilities
    associated with our businesses, whether arising before or after
    the Separation;

•

the liabilities of Clear Channel Communications and its
    affiliates’ businesses, other than liabilities associated
    with our businesses;

•

any breach by Clear Channel Communications or any of its
    affiliates of the master separation and distribution agreement
    or the other transaction documents;



•

any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact
    in our public filings, other than any registration statement or
    information statement related to the Distribution, our debt
    offerings or associated exchange offer, to the extent the
    statement or omission was as a result of information that Clear
    Channel Communications furnished to us or that we incorporated
    by reference from Clear Channel Communications’ public
    filings, if the statement or omission was made or occurred after
    the Distribution; and

•

any untrue statement of, or omission to state, a material fact
    contained in the Form 10 registration statement related to
    the Distribution, in any offering memorandum, registration
    statement or information statement or related to the senior
    secured credit facility, or otherwise related to the
    Distribution or related transactions, but only to the extent the
    statement was made or omitted in reliance upon information
    provided by Clear Channel Communications expressly for use in
    any such offering memorandum, registration statement or
    information statement.

The master separation and distribution agreement also specifies
    procedures with respect to claims subject to indemnification and
    related matters and will provide for contribution in the event
    that indemnification is not available to an indemnified party.

Expenses
    of the Separation and Debt Offering

Clear Channel Communications agreed to pay or reimburse us for
    all

out-of-pocket

fees, costs and expenses (including all legal, accounting and
    printing expenses) incurred prior to the completion of the
    Distribution in connection with our Separation from Clear
    Channel Communications, other than our

out-of-pocket

fees and expenses related to the senior secured credit facility
    and the issuance of redeemable preferred stock by our subsidiary.

Insurance
    Matters

Prior to the Distribution, Clear Channel Communications was
    required to maintain in full force its existing insurance
    policies that applied to us, our assets and our business.
    Following the Distribution, Clear Channel Communications
    continues to own its insurance policies and we are responsible
    for establishing and maintaining separate property damage,
    business interruption and liability insurance policies and
    programs. The master separation and distribution agreement
    contains provisions regarding the handling after the
    Distribution of claims relating to our business that were
    initiated or arise from occurrences before the Distribution.

Litigation

As of the date of the Distribution, generally we assumed all
    actions, claims, demands, disputes, lawsuits, arbitrations,
    inquiries, proceedings or investigations (referred to as
    “Actions”) relating in any material respect to our
    business in which Clear Channel Communications or any of its
    subsidiaries is a defendant or the party against whom the Action
    is directed. We will conduct the defense of all of the Actions
    we assumed at our sole cost and expense and we will be
    responsible for all liabilities resulting from the Actions we
    assumed. We will continue to be liable for Actions in which we
    are named as a defendant or we are the party against whom the
    Action is directed. As of the date of the Distribution, Clear
    Channel Communications transferred to us specified Actions
    relating primarily to our business in which Clear Channel
    Communications is a claimant or plaintiff. Clear Channel
    Communications may participate in any Action we assumed at its
    cost and expense and we will cooperate with Clear Channel
    Communications in any settlement of an Action we assumed. For
    Actions commenced after the Distribution naming both Clear
    Channel Communications and us as defendants and one party is a
    nominal defendant, the other party will use commercially
    reasonable efforts to have the nominal defendant removed from
    the Action.

Dispute
    Resolution Procedures

We agreed with Clear Channel Communications that neither party
    will commence any court action to resolve any dispute or claim
    arising out of or relating to the master separation and
    distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. Instead,
    any dispute that is not resolved in the normal course of
    business will be



submitted to senior executives of each business entity involved
    in the dispute for resolution. If the dispute is not resolved by
    negotiation within 45 days after submission to the
    executives, either party may submit the dispute to mediation. If
    the dispute is not resolved by mediation within 30 days
    after the selection of a mediator, either party may submit the
    dispute to binding arbitration before a panel of three
    arbitrators. The arbitrators will determine the dispute in
    accordance with Texas law. Most of the other agreements between
    us and Clear Channel Communications have similar dispute
    resolution provisions.

Other
    Provisions

The master separation and distribution agreement also contains
    covenants between us and Clear Channel Communications with
    respect to other matters, including protecting the
    confidentiality of our and Clear Channel Communications’
    information.

Transition
    Services Agreement

We entered into a transition services agreement with one of
    Clear Channel’s affiliates to provide us certain
    transitional administrative and support services and other
    assistance. Clear Channel Communications provides services to
    us, including, but not limited to, the following:

•

treasury, payroll and other financial related services;

•

human resources and employee benefits;

•

legal and related services;

•

information systems, network and related services;

•

investment services; and

•

corporate services.

The transition services agreement also provides for the lease or
    sublease of certain facilities used in the operation of our
    respective businesses.

The charges for the transition services generally are intended
    to allow Clear Channel Communications to fully recover the
    allocated direct costs of providing the services, plus all

out-of-pocket

costs and expenses, generally without profit. The allocation of
    costs is based on various measures depending on the service
    provided, including relative revenue, employee headcount or
    number of users of a service.

The services provided under the transition services agreement
    will terminate at various times specified in the agreement
    (generally ranging from two months to one year after the
    completion of the Distribution), but we may terminate any
    service, other than certain information technology and tax
    services, by giving at least 90 days prior written notice
    to Clear Channel Communications, and we may terminate tax
    services with 120 days prior written notice. Under the
    terms of the transition services agreement, Clear Channel
    Communications will not be liable to us for, or in connection
    with, any services rendered pursuant to the agreement or for any
    actions or inactions taken by Clear Channel Communications in
    connection with the provision of services. However, Clear
    Channel Communications will be liable for, and will indemnify us
    for, liabilities resulting from its gross negligence, willful
    misconduct, improper use or disclosure of customer information
    or violations of law, subject to a cap on Clear Channel
    Communications’ liability of an amount equal to payments
    made by us to Clear Channel Communications pursuant thereto
    during the twelve months preceding such event. Additionally, we
    will indemnify Clear Channel Communications for any losses
    arising from the provision of services, except to the extent the
    liabilities are caused by Clear Channel Communications’
    gross negligence or material breach of the transition services
    agreement.

Tax
    Matters Agreement

We and Clear Channel Communications have entered into a tax
    matters agreement that became effective at the time of the
    spin-off that governs the respective rights, responsibilities
    and obligations of Clear Channel Communications and us with
    respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax
    contests and other



matters regarding income taxes, non-income taxes and preparing
    and filing combined tax returns for taxable periods (or portions
    thereof) ending on or before the date of the spin-off, which
    period we refer to as a pre-spin-off period, as well as with
    respect to any additional taxes incurred by Clear Channel
    Communications attributable to actions, events or transactions
    relating to our stock, assets or business following the
    spin-off, including taxes imposed if the spin-off fails to
    qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
    “Code”), or if Clear Channel Communications is not
    able to recognize certain losses (as defined below).

Preparing
    and Filing Combined Tax Returns

Under the tax matters agreement, Clear Channel Communications
    has the right and obligation to prepare and file all combined
    tax returns. We are required to provide information and to
    cooperate with Clear Channel Communications in the preparation
    and filing of these combined tax returns.

Allocation
    of Tax Liability

For pre-spin-off periods, Clear Channel Communications generally
    is responsible for all federal, foreign, state and local taxes
    attributable to our business and assets to the extent the amount
    of these taxes exceeds the amount we paid to Clear Channel
    Communications prior to the spin-off in connection with the
    filing of relevant tax returns. Clear Channel Communications is
    not required to pay us for its utilization of our tax attributes
    (or benefits) to reduce federal, foreign, state and local taxes
    for pre-spin-off periods, whether such utilization occurs upon
    the filing of a relevant tax return or upon an adjustment to
    such taxes and whether the tax being reduced is attributable to
    its or our business and assets.

In some circumstances, including those discussed below, we will
    be responsible, and we will indemnify Clear Channel
    Communications, for any additional federal, foreign, state and
    local taxes that are imposed for pre-spin-off periods to the
    extent such additional taxes are imposed as a result of actions,
    events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business
    following the spin-off, or a breach of the relevant
    representations or covenants made by us in the tax matters
    agreement. We will also be responsible for all federal, foreign,
    state and local taxes attributable to our business and assets
    for taxable periods (or portions thereof) beginning after the
    date of the spin-off, which period we refer to as a
    post-spin-off period.

Spin-Off

We and Clear Channel Communications intend that the spin-off
    qualify as a reorganization under Sections 355 and
    368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. However, if the
    failure of the spin-off to qualify as a tax-free transaction
    under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (including
    as a result of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code)
    is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to
    our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant
    representations or covenants made by us in the tax matters
    agreement, we have agreed in the tax matters agreement to
    indemnify Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates
    against any and all tax-related liabilities. If the failure of
    the spin-off to qualify under Section 355 of the Internal
    Revenue Code is for any reason for which neither we nor Clear
    Channel Communications is responsible, we and Clear Channel
    Communications have agreed in the tax matters agreement that we
    will each be responsible for 50% of the tax-related liabilities
    arising from the failure to so qualify.

Tax
    Contests

Clear Channel Communications generally has the right to control
    all administrative, regulatory and judicial proceedings relating
    to federal, foreign, state and local taxes attributable to
    pre-spin-off periods and all proceedings relating to taxes
    resulting from the failure of the spin-off, or transactions
    relating to the internal reorganization prior to the spin-off,
    to qualify as tax-free.



Post-Spin-Off
    Tax Attributes

Generally, we may not carry back a loss, credit or other tax
    attribute from a post-spin-off period to a pre-spin-off period,
    unless we obtain the consent of Clear Channel Communications and
    then only to the extent permitted by applicable law.

SFX
    Entertainment, Inc. Loss

Prior to the spin-off, Clear Channel Communications transferred
    (the “SFXE Exchange”) all of the outstanding stock of
    SFX Entertainment, Inc. to Holdco #2, one of our subsidiaries,
    in exchange for Holdco #2 common stock and all of
    Holdco #2’s Series B (non-voting) mandatorily
    Redeemable Preferred Stock. Pursuant to a pre-existing binding
    commitment entered into prior to the SFXE Exchange, Clear
    Channel Communications immediately sold the Series B
    Redeemable Preferred Stock to third-party investors. As a result
    of these transactions, Clear Channel Communications expects to
    recognize a loss (the “SFXE Loss”).

Prior to the spin-off, Clear Channel Communications contributed
    the common stock of Holdco #2 to us, which we then
    contributed to one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. If Clear
    Channel Communications is unable to deduct the SFXE Loss for
    United States federal income tax purposes as a result of any
    action we take following the spin-off or our breach of a
    relevant representation or covenant made by us in the tax
    matters agreement, we have agreed in the tax matters agreement
    to indemnify Clear Channel Communications for the lost tax
    benefits that Clear Channel Communications would have otherwise
    realized if it were able to deduct the SFXE Loss.

Employee
    Matters Agreement

We have in place an employee matters agreement with Clear
    Channel Communications covering a number of compensation and
    employee benefit matters relating to our employees. In general,
    the employee matters agreement provides that we are solely
    responsible for the majority of the liabilities and expenses
    relating to our current and former employees and their covered
    dependents and beneficiaries, regardless of when incurred. In
    addition, for a period of one year following the date of the
    Distribution, neither we nor Clear Channel Communications may,
    nor will they permit any of their respective subsidiaries,
    affiliates or agents to, solicit or recruit for employment any
    employees at the level of vice president and above currently and
    then in the employ of the other company or its subsidiaries or
    affiliates, without the prior written consent of the other
    company.

Our employees’ participation in the Clear Channel
    Communications’ employee plans ended at the time of the
    spin-off or, in the case of certain plans (including group
    health), at December 31, 2005. We adopted our own group
    health plan and certain other welfare benefit plans in order to
    avoid coverage gaps following the date(s) our employees ceased
    to be covered by the Clear Channel Communications’ plans.
    We will continue to maintain our 401(k) plan and we will adopt
    such other incentive compensation and employee plans as we deem
    necessary or appropriate. Our plans will recognize and give full
    credit to our current employees for their service with the Clear
    Channel Communications group before the spin-off.

Use
    of Clear Channel Communications’ Name and
    Mark

Clear Channel Communications owns all rights in the “Clear
    Channel” name and logo. We are required to remove the
    “Clear Channel” name from the names of our
    subsidiaries and stop using the “Clear Channel” name
    and logo by December 21, 2006.

Products
    and Services Provided between Clear Channel Communications and
    Us

We have provided to, and received from, Clear Channel
    Communications various products and services on terms comparable
    to those we provide to third parties, and we expect to continue
    to provide and receive such services.



Transactions
    with Clear Channel Communications

Prior to the Separation, we had a revolving line of credit with
    Clear Channel Communications. As part of the Separation,
    $220.0 million of the outstanding debt balance was repaid,
    with Clear Channel Communications contributing the remaining
    balance to our capital.

Clear Channel Communications has provided funding for certain of
    our acquisitions of net assets. These amounts funded by Clear
    Channel Communications for these acquisitions are recorded in
    owner’s net investment as a component of
    business/shareholders’ equity. Also, certain tax related
    receivables and payables, which are considered non-cash capital
    contributions or dividends, are recorded in owner’s net
    investment. During the fiscal year 2005, Clear Channel
    Communications made additional non-cash capital contributions of
    $8.8 million to us. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the
    Company completed the separation from Clear Channel
    Communications. As a result, the Company recognized the par
    value and additional

paid-in-capital

in connection with the issuance of our common stock in exchange
    for the net assets contributed by Clear Channel Communications.
    As of December 31, 2005 there is no longer an owner’s
    net investment balance recorded.

We purchase advertising from Clear Channel Communications and
    its subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we
    recorded $12.9 million as a component of divisional
    operating expenses, for these advertisements. It is our opinion
    that these transactions were recorded at fair value.

Prior to the Separation, Clear Channel Communications provided
    management services to us, which included, among other things:
    (i) treasury, payroll and other financial related services;
    (ii) executive oversight; (iii) human resources and
    employee benefits services; (iv) legal and related
    services; and (v) information systems, network and related
    services. These services were allocated to us based on actual
    direct costs incurred or on our share of Clear Channel
    Communications’ estimate of expenses relative to a
    seasonally adjusted headcount. We believe this allocation method
    to be reasonable and the expenses allocated to be materially the
    same as the amount that would have been incurred on a
    stand-alone basis. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we
    recorded $9.5 million as a component of corporate expenses
    for these services.

Clear Channel Communications owns the trademark and trade names
    used by us prior to the Separation. Clear Channel Communications
    charged us a royalty fee based upon a percentage of annual
    revenue. Clear Channel Communications used a third party
    valuation firm to assist in the determination of the royalty
    fee. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded
    $0.5 million, of royalty fees in corporate expenses.

Prior to the Separation, our operations were included in a
    consolidated federal income tax return filed by Clear Channel
    Communications. Our provision for income taxes has been computed
    on the basis that we file separate consolidated income tax
    returns with our subsidiaries. Tax payments were made to Clear
    Channel Communications on the basis of our separate taxable
    income. Tax benefits recognized on employee stock options
    exercises are retained by Clear Channel Communications.

Our domestic employees participated in Clear Channel
    Communications’ employee benefit plans prior to the
    Separation, including employee medical insurance, an employee
    stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement benefit plan. These
    costs were recorded primarily as a component of divisional
    operating expenses and were approximately $9.0 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2005.

In connection with the Separation, we entered into various lease
    and licensing agreements with Clear Channel Communications
    primarily for office space occupied by our employees.

As of December 31, 2005, we have recorded a liability to
    Clear Channel Communications of $12.7 million, which is
    recorded in accrued expenses.



Item 14.

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services

Fees billed by Ernst & Young for periods prior to the
    2005 audit and all fees related to Live Nation’s separation
    from Clear Channel Communications were approved by the Audit
    Committee of Clear Channel Communications and paid by Clear
    Channel Communications. Live Nation incurred the following fees
    for services provided by Ernst & Young LLP during the
    year ended December 31, 2005:

Fees Paid During Year

Ended December 31,

(In thousands)

Annual audit fees(1)

$

1,964

Audit-related fees(2)

—

Tax fees

—

All other fees

—

Total fees for services

$

1,964

(1)

Annual audit fees are for professional services rendered for the
    audit of our annual financial statements and reviews of
    quarterly financial statements. This category also includes fees
    for statutory audits required domestically and internationally,
    comfort letters, consents, assistance with review of documents
    filed with the SEC, attest services, work done by tax
    professional in connection with the audit or quarterly reviews,
    and accounting consultations and research work necessary to
    comply with generally accepted auditing standards. During 2005,
    Clear Channel Communications paid $0.7 million of audit
    fees related to Live Nation’s 2005 audit, which are not
    included above.

(2)

Audit-related fees are for attest services,
    agreed-upon-procedure services and investee audits not required
    by statute or regulation.

The Audit Committee pre-approves all audit and permitted
    non-audit services (including the fees and terms thereof) to be
    performed for Live Nation by its independent auditor. The
    chairperson of the Audit Committee may represent the entire
    committee for the purposes of pre-approving permissible
    non-audit services, provided that the decision to pre-approve
    any service is disclosed to the Audit Committee no later than
    its next scheduled meeting.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)1.

Financial Statements.

The following consolidated and combined financial statements are
    included in Item 8.

Consolidated and Combined Balance Sheets as of December 31,
    2005 and 2004

Consolidated and Combined Statements of Operations for the Years
    Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Consolidated and Combined Statements of Changes in
    Business/Shareholders’ Equity for the Years Ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Consolidated and Combined Statements of Cash Flows for the Years
    Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements

(a)2.

Financial Statement Schedule.

The following financial statement schedule for the years ended
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is filed as part of this
    report and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
    and combined financial statements.

Schedule II
    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules for which provision is made in the
    applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange
    Commission are not required under the related instructions or
    are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.



SCHEDULE II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Charges

Balance at

to Costs,

Write-off

Balance

Beginning

Expenses

of Accounts

at End of

Description

of Period

and Other

Receivable

Other

Period

(In thousands)

Year ended December 31, 2003

$

14,788

$

3,417

$

(6,994

)

$


(1)

$

11,595

Year ended December 31, 2004

$

11,595

$

2,017

$

(3,546

)

$


(1)

$

10,174

Year ended December 31, 2005

$

10,174

$

4,767

$

(5,191

)

$

(232

)

(1)

$

9,518

(1)

Foreign currency adjustments.



SCHEDULE II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowance

Charges

Balance at

to Costs,

Balance at

Beginning

Expenses

End of

Description

of Period

and Other

Deletions(1)

Other(2)

Period

(In thousands)

Year ended December 31, 2003

$

64,035

$

—

$

6,230

$

—

$

57,805

Year ended December 31, 2004

$

57,805

$

—

$

57,805

$

—

$

—

Year ended December 31, 2005

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

77,266

$

77,266

(1)

In 2003 and 2004, the Company utilized net operating loss
    carryforwards and certain deferred tax assets, which resulted in
    the reduction of the allowance for those net operating loss
    carryforwards and other assets.

(2)

In 2005, the Company determined that it may not be able to
    realize certain deferred tax assets in the future and recorded a
    valuation allowance accordingly.



(a)3.

Exhibits.

Exhibit

Number

Description


.1

Master Separation and Distribution
    Agreement between Clear Channel Communications, Inc. and CCE
    Spinco, Inc., (now Live Nation, Inc.) dated December 20,
    2005 (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.1

Amended and Restated Certificate
    of Incorporation of CCE Spinco, Inc. (Incorporated by reference
    to the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 16, 2005).


.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of CCE
    Spinco, Inc. (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.1

Specimen Common Stock Certificate
    of CCE Spinco, Inc. (incorporated by reference to the exhibits
    of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10
    (File

No. 001-32601)).


.2

Rights Agreement between CCE
    Spinco, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as rights agent, dated
    December 21, 2005 (incorporated by reference to the
    exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.3

Form of Certificate of
    Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
    Stock (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.4

Form of Right Certificate
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.1

Transition Services Agreement
    between CCE Spinco, Inc. and Clear Channel Management Services,
    L.P. dated December 21, 2005 (incorporated by reference to
    the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.2

Tax Matters Agreement among CCE
    Spinco, Inc., CCE Holdco #2, Inc. and Clear Channel
    Communications, Inc., dated December 21, 2005 (incorporated
    by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.3

Employee Matters Agreement between
    CCE Spinco, Inc. and Clear Channel Communications, Inc., dated
    December 21, 2005 (incorporated by reference to the
    exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.4

Trademark and Copyright License
    Agreement between CCE Spinco, Inc. and Clear Channel Identity,
    L.P., dated December 21, 2005 (incorporated by reference to
    the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.5§

Clear Channel Entertainment
    Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report
    on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.6

Certificate of Incorporation of
    CCE Holdco #2, Inc. (incorporated by reference to the
    exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.7§

CCE Spinco, Inc. 2005 Stock
    Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.8§

Form of Stock Option Agreement
    under the CCE Spinco, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.9§

Form of Restricted Stock Award
    Agreement under the CCE Spinco, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.10§

CCE Spinco, Inc. Annual Incentive
    Plan (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.11

Credit Agreement, dated as of
    December 21, 2005, among SFX Entertainment, Inc. and the
    foreign borrowers party thereto, as Borrowers, and CCE Spinco,
    Inc., the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Toronto Branch,
    as Canadian Agent, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as London
    Agent, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and
    J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Bank of America Securities
    LLC, as Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (incorporated by
    reference to the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report
    on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).



Exhibit

Number

Description


.12

Guarantee and Collateral
    Agreement, dated December 21, 2005, among CCE Spinco, Inc.,
    SFX Entertainment, Inc., the other subsidiaries of CCE Spinco,
    Inc. identified therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to the exhibits
    of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.13§

Employment Agreement, dated
    August 17, 2005, by and between SFX Entertainment, Inc.,
    d/b/a Clear Channel Entertainment and Michael Rapino
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Registration Statement on Form 10 (File

No. 001-32601)).


.14§

Employment Agreement, dated
    November 28, 2005, by and between SFX Entertainment, Inc.,
    d/b/a Clear Channel Entertainment and Alan Ridgeway
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Registration Statement on Form 10 (File

No. 001-32601)).


.15§

Employment Agreement, dated
    December 22, 2004, by and between Kathy Willard and SFX
    Entertainment, Inc., d/b/a/ Clear Channel Entertainment, as
    amended December 1, 2005 effective January 1, 2005
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.16

Membership Interest Purchase
    Agreement dated January 26, 2006 by and among SFX Sports
    Group, Inc. and Arn Tellem (incorporated by reference to the
    exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed February 1, 2006).


.1*

Computation of Ratio of Earnings
    to Fixed Charges.


.1*

Subsidiaries of the Company.


.1*

Certification of Chief Executive
    Officer.


.2*

Certification of Chief Financial
    Officer.


.1*

Section 1350 Certification of
    Chief Executive Officer.


.2*

Section 1350 Certification of
    Chief Financial Officer.

*

Filed herewith.

§

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

The Company has not filed long-term debt instruments of its
    subsidiaries where the total amount under such instruments is
    less than ten percent of the total assets of the Company and its
    subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. However, the Company will
    furnish a copy of such instruments to the Commission upon
    request.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized, on March 21, 2006.

LIVE NATION, INC.

By:

/s/  Michael Rapino

Michael Rapino

President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
    behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
    indicated.

Name

Title

Date

/s/  Michael Rapino

Michael
    Rapino

President and Chief Executive

Officer and Director

March 21, 2006

/s/  Alan Ridgeway

Alan
    Ridgeway

Chief Financial Officer

March 21, 2006

/s/  Kathy Willard

Kathy
    Willard

Chief Accounting Officer

March 21, 2006

/s/  Henry Cisneros

Henry
    Cisneros

Director

March 21, 2006

/s/  Jeffrey T.
    Hinson

Jeffrey
    T. Hinson

Director

March 21, 2006

/s/  L. Lowry Mays

L.
    Lowry Mays

Director

March 21, 2006

/s/  Mark P. Mays

Mark
    P. Mays

Director

March 21, 2006

/s/  Randall T. Mays

Randall
    T. Mays

Director

March 21, 2006

/s/  Connie McCombs
    McNab

Connie
    McCombs McNab

Director

March 21, 2006

/s/  John N. Simons,
    Jr.

John
    N. Simons, Jr.

Director

March 21, 2006

/s/  Timothy P.
    Sullivan

Timothy
    P. Sullivan

Director

March 21, 2006



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Number

Description


.1

Master Separation and Distribution
    Agreement between Clear Channel Communications, Inc. and CCE
    Spinco, Inc., (now Live Nation, Inc.) dated December 20,
    2005 (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.1

Amended and Restated Certificate
    of Incorporation of CCE Spinco, Inc. (Incorporated by reference
    to the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 16, 2005).


.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of CCE
    Spinco, Inc. (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.1

Specimen Common Stock Certificate
    of CCE Spinco, Inc. (incorporated by reference to the exhibits
    of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10
    (File

No. 001-32601)).


.2

Rights Agreement between CCE
    Spinco, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as rights agent, dated
    December 21, 2005 (incorporated by reference to the
    exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.3

Form of Certificate of
    Designations of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
    Stock (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.4

Form of Right Certificate
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.1

Transition Services Agreement
    between CCE Spinco, Inc. and Clear Channel Management Services,
    L.P. dated December 21, 2005 (incorporated by reference to
    the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.2

Tax Matters Agreement among CCE
    Spinco, Inc., CCE Holdco #2, Inc. and Clear Channel
    Communications, Inc., dated December 21, 2005 (incorporated
    by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.3

Employee Matters Agreement between
    CCE Spinco, Inc. and Clear Channel Communications, Inc., dated
    December 21, 2005 (incorporated by reference to the
    exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.4

Trademark and Copyright License
    Agreement between CCE Spinco, Inc. and Clear Channel Identity,
    L.P., dated December 21, 2005 (incorporated by reference to
    the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.5 §

Clear Channel Entertainment
    Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report
    on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.6

Certificate of Incorporation of
    CCE Holdco #2, Inc. (incorporated by reference to the
    exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.7§

CCE Spinco, Inc. 2005 Stock
    Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.8§

Form of Stock Option Agreement
    under the CCE Spinco, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.9§

Form of Restricted Stock Award
    Agreement under the CCE Spinco, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.10§

CCE Spinco, Inc. Annual Incentive
    Plan (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.11

Credit Agreement, dated as of
    December 21, 2005, among SFX Entertainment, Inc. and the
    foreign borrowers party thereto, as Borrowers, and CCE Spinco,
    Inc., the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Toronto Branch,
    as Canadian Agent, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as London
    Agent, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and
    J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Bank of America Securities
    LLC, as Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (incorporated by
    reference to the exhibits of the Company’s Current Report
    on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).



Exhibit

Number

Description


.12

Guarantee and Collateral
    Agreement, dated December 21, 2005, among CCE Spinco, Inc.,
    SFX Entertainment, Inc., the other subsidiaries of CCE Spinco,
    Inc. identified therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as
    Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to the exhibits
    of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.13§

Employment Agreement, dated
    August 17, 2005, by and between SFX Entertainment, Inc.,
    d/b/a Clear Channel Entertainment and Michael Rapino
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Registration Statement on Form 10 (File

No. 001-32601)).


.14§

Employment Agreement, dated
    November 28, 2005, by and between SFX Entertainment, Inc.,
    d/b/a Clear Channel Entertainment and Alan Ridgeway
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Registration Statement on Form 10 (File

No. 001-32601)).


.15§

Employment Agreement, dated
    December 22, 2004, by and between Kathy Willard and SFX
    Entertainment, Inc., d/b/a/ Clear Channel Entertainment, as
    amended December 1, 2005 effective January 1, 2005
    (incorporated by reference to the exhibits of the Company’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed December 23, 2005).


.16

Membership Interest Purchase
    Agreement dated January 26, 2006 by and among SFX Sports
    Group, Inc. and Arn Tellem (incorporated by reference to the
    exhibits of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed February 1, 2006).


.1*

Computation of Ratio of Earnings
    to Fixed Charges.


.1*

Subsidiaries of the Company.


.1*

Certification of Chief Executive
    Officer.


.2*

Certification of Chief Financial
    Officer.


.1*

Section 1350 Certification of
    Chief Executive Officer.


.2*

Section 1350 Certification of
    Chief Financial Officer.

*

Filed herewith.

§

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

The Company has not filed long-term debt instruments of its
    subsidiaries where the total amount under such instruments is
    less than ten percent of the total assets of the Company and its
    subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. However, the Company will
    furnish a copy of such instruments to the Commission upon
    request.

120