10-K


b48970ile10vk.htm

IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC.

IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC.


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

[

X

]

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For The Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2003

[   ]

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For The Transition Period From __________To __________.

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-19271

IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

01-0393723

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer Identification No.)

ONE IDEXX Drive, Westbrook, Maine


(Address of principal executive offices)

(ZIP Code)

207-856-0300

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

NONE

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

Common Stock, $0.10 par value per share

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [

X

] No [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [

X

]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes [

X

] No [   ]

Based on the closing sale price on June 30

,

2003, the aggregate market
value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
$1,131,671,822 . For these purposes, the registrant considers its Directors
and executive officers to be its only affiliates.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s Common Stock was
34,703,339 on January 30, 2004.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

LOCATION IN FORM 10-K

INCORPORATED DOCUMENT

Part III

Specifically identified portions of the Company’s
definitive proxy statement to be filed in connection
with the Company’s Annual Meeting to be held on May
19, 2004 are incorporated herein by reference.




CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, are made throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
including statements relating to management’s expectations regarding new
product introductions; the adequacy of the Company’s sources for certain
components, raw materials and finished products; and the Company’s ability to
utilize certain inventory. For this purpose, any statements contained herein
that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking
statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words “believes,”
“anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a
number of important factors that could cause IDEXX’s results to differ
materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including
those detailed under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies
and Estimates” and “- Future Operating Results.”

In addition, any forward-looking statements represent the Company’s views
only as of the day this Annual Report on Form 10-K was first filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and should not be relied upon as
representing the Company’s views as of any subsequent date. While the Company
may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the
Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if its views
change.

PART I.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (“we”, “us”, the “Company” or “IDEXX,” which
includes wholly-owned subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires),
develops, manufactures and distributes products and provides services for the
veterinary and the food and water testing markets. Our products and services
include:

Most of our sales are derived from the sale of our veterinary diagnostic
products and services.

We are a Delaware corporation and were incorporated in 1983. Our
principal executive offices are located at One IDEXX Drive, Westbrook, Maine
04092, our telephone number is 207-856-0300, and our Internet address is
idexx.com.

We make available free of charge on our Website our Annual Report on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we file
such information with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission.



PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

We operate primarily through three business segments: products and
services for the veterinary market, which we refer to as our Companion Animal
Group (“CAG”), water quality products (“Water”) and products and services for
production animal health and dairy quality, which we refer to as the Food
Diagnostics Group (“FDG”). See Note 17 to our financial statements included
elsewhere in this report for financial information about our business segments,
including geographic information.

COMPANION ANIMAL GROUP

Rapid Assays

We provide a broad range of single-use, hand held test kits that allow
quick (in most cases, less than ten minutes), accurate and convenient test
results for a variety of companion animal diseases and health conditions.
These products enable veterinarians to provide improved service to animal
owners by delivering test results and a diagnosis at the time of the patient
visit, allowing the veterinarian to initiate therapy or prevention, if
required.

Our principal single-use tests are sold under the SNAP® name, and
include a feline combination test, the SNAP® Combo FIV antibody/FeLV antigen
test, which enables veterinarians to test simultaneously for feline
immunodeficiency virus (“FIV”) (which is similar to the human AIDS virus) and
feline leukemia virus (“FeLV”); a canine combination test, the SNAP® 3Dx®,
which tests simultaneously for Lyme disease,

Ehrlichia canis

and heartworm; and
a canine heartworm-only test. Sales of heartworm tests are greater in the
first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of the disease.

In addition to our single-use tests, we sell a line of microwell-based
test kits, under the PetChek® name, which are used by larger clinics and
independent laboratories to test multiple samples. PetChek® tests offer
accuracy, ease of use and cost advantages to high-volume customers. We
currently sell PetChek® tests for FeLV, FIV and canine heartworm disease.

Instruments and Consumables

We currently market several instrument systems, as well as associated
consumable products, for use in veterinary clinics. These instruments include
the following:

Blood Chemistry

. Our VetTest® blood chemistry analyzer is used to
measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood in order to
assist the veterinarian in diagnosing physiologic conditions. Twenty-one
separate blood chemistry tests can be performed on the VetTest® analyzer,
with up to 12 tests run in under six minutes after sample application.
Commonly run tests include glucose, alkaline phosphatase, ALT (alanine
aminotransferase), creatinine, BUN (blood urea nitrogen) and total protein.

We purchase all of the reagents used in the VetTest® analyzer (“dry
chemistry slides ” or “VetTest slides”) from Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc.
(“Ortho”), a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson. See “Business-Production and
Supply.” In October 2003, we entered into a new agreement with Ortho under
which we are developing a next-generation chemistry analyzer for the veterinary
market based on Ortho’s dry slide technology, and Ortho will supply the slide
consumables used in both the VetTest analyzer and the new analyzer through
2018.

Hematology

. In October 2002 we introduced the LaserCyte® system, a
hematology system that uses laser-flow cytometry technology to analyze
components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and
platelets. We believe that the LaserCyte® system is the only in-clinic
hematology system that provides veterinarians with a five-part white blood cell
differential and an absolute reticulocyte count, which provides enhanced
diagnostic capabilities to veterinarians. We also sell the QBC® VetAutoread™
hematology analyzer, which is based on the Becton Dickinson QBC® Autoread™
hematology system that is sold to physicians for human applications.

Electrolytes

.
Our VetLyte® system measures three electrolytes –
sodium, potassium and chloride – to aid in evaluating acid-base and
electrolyte balances and assessing plasma hydration. Test results are
available in less than one minute after sample introduction and are either
displayed on the VetLyte® analyzer or downloaded to
the VetTest® analyzer.



Quantitative Hormone Testing

. The VetTest® SNAP® Reader allows the
veterinarian to obtain quantitative measurement of hormones, including
thyroxine (T4) and cortisol. These measurements assist in diagnosing and
monitoring the treatment of certain endocrine diseases, such as hyper- and
hypothyroidism, Cushing’s syndrome and Addison’s disease. Samples and reagents
are introduced to the analyzer using our SNAP® device platform.

Computed Radiography

. We market and sell two computed radiography
systems: the IDEXX-CR System, which is appropriate for use in the veterinary
clinic, and the IDEXX-CR Compact System, which is primarily used as a portable
unit in ambulatory veterinary practices, such as equine practices. Our
computed radiography systems generate digital radiograph images, which replace
traditional x-ray film. Use of digital radiographs eliminates the need for the
film and processor, hazardous chemicals and darkroom required for the
production of film images. We are currently involved in litigation with our
supplier of computed radiography instruments. See “Production and Supply”
below.

Veterinary Laboratory and Consulting Services

We offer commercial veterinary laboratory and consulting services in the
U.S. through facilities located in Arizona, California, Colorado, Georgia,
Illinois, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Ohio, Oregon and
Texas. Through subsidiaries located in the United Kingdom, Japan and
Australia, we offer commercial veterinary laboratory services to veterinary
clinics located in those countries. Veterinarians use our services by
submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities.
Our laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to
detect a number of disease states and other conditions in production and
companion animals.

Additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine
and advisory services, including cardiology, radiology, internal medicine,
dermatology and ultrasound consulting. These services permit veterinarians to
obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone
and over the Internet from the veterinarians’ offices.

Approximately 74%, 71% and 72% of the Company’s revenues were derived from
sales of rapid assays, veterinary instruments and consumables and veterinary
laboratory and consulting services within the CAG segment in 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively.

Information Products and Services

We develop, market and sell practice information management software
systems that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including scheduling,
billing and patient records management. Our systems also provide veterinarians
with the ability to download laboratory results electronically from our
veterinary reference laboratories directly into the patients’ medical records.
We believe we are the leading provider of veterinary practice information
management software systems in the U.S., with an installed base of more than
7,500 of the approximately 25,000 veterinary hospitals in North America. We
also provide software and hardware support and derive a significant portion of
our revenues for this product line from ongoing service contracts.

Veterinary Pharmaceuticals

We develop, market and sell novel therapeutics for the veterinary market.
In December 2000, we introduced ACAREXX® (.01% ivermectin) otic suspension
for the treatment of ear mites in cats, our first drug approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). In 2002, we commenced active marketing
of PZI VET®, an insulin product for the treatment of diabetic cats, under the
FDA’s regulatory discretion guidelines. In November 2003 we introduced
NAVIGATOR® (32% nitazoxanide) Antiprotozoal Oral Paste, a new treatment for
equine protozoal myeloencephalitis (EPM). EPM is a progressive, degenerative
disease of the central nervous system that can cause serious or even fatal
neurological problems in horses. We currently have a number of other products
under development, including a topical form of diclofenac, a non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory for equine use, and tilmicosin, a long-acting, injectable
form of the antibiotic tilmicosin for cats. We have completed the safety and
efficacy components of our New Animal Drug Application (“NADA”) for diclofenac,
and have submitted



information relating to manufacturing in response to questions from the FDA. We
submitted all components in support of a NADA for tilmicosin to the FDA in the
second quarter of 2003.

WATER

Our Colilert®, Colilert-18 and Colisure® tests simultaneously detect
total coliforms and

E. coli

in water. These organisms are broadly used as
indicators of microbial contamination in water. These products utilize
indicator-nutrients that produce a change in color or fluorescence when
metabolized by target microbes in the sample. Our water tests are used by
government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories to
test drinking water in compliance with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) standards. The tests also are used in evaluating water used in
production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications)
and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, waste water and water from
private wells.

Our Enterolert™ product detects enterococci in drinking and
recreational waters. Our Quanti-Tray® products, when used in conjunction with
our Colilert®, Colilert-18, Colisure® or Enterolert™ products, provide
users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination, rather then a
presence/absence indication. The Colilert®, Colilert-18, Colisure® and
Quanti-Tray® products have been approved by the EPA and by regulatory
agencies in certain other countries.

In August 2000, we acquired Genera Technologies Limited, a U.K.-based
company that develops and sells products for detection of cryptosporidia in
water. Cryptosporidia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal
gastrointestinal illness if ingested. Testing of water supplies for
cryptosporidia is mandated by regulation in the United Kingdom, but is not
regulated in other countries at this time.

Approximately 10% of the Company’s revenues were derived from sales of
water testing products in each of 2003, 2002 and 2001.

FOOD DIAGNOSTICS GROUP

Production Animal Services

We sell diagnostic tests and related instrumentation and software that are
used to detect a wide range of diseases and monitor health status in production
animals. Our production animal products are purchased primarily by government
laboratories and poultry and swine producers. Significant products include
diagnostic tests for porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome and
pseudorabies virus in pigs, Newcastle disease in poultry, and Johne’s disease
and brucellosis in cattle.

We have developed a post-mortem test for bovine spongiform encephalopathy,
or “mad cow disease.” We have submitted an application to the United States
Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) for approval of this test. However, there
is no current testing program in the U.S. that requires use of rapid tests of
the kind that we manufacture, and we do not know when or if the USDA will
implement any such program. We also have submitted an application to the EU
Food Safety Commission seeking a license to sell this product in EU member
countries.

Dairy Testing

Our principal product for use in testing for antibiotic residue in milk is
the SNAP® beta-lactam test. Dairy producers and processors use our tests for
quality assurance of raw milk, and government and food quality managers use
them for ongoing surveillance.

In March, 2003 we entered into an agreement with the FDA under which we
agreed, among other things, to perform specified lot release and stability
testing of our SNAP® beta-lactam products and to provide related data to the
FDA. If the FDA were to determine that one or more lots of product failed to
meet applicable criteria for product performance or stability, the FDA could
take various actions, including requiring us to recall products or restricting
our ability to sell these products. Sales of dairy antibiotic residue testing
products were $16.1 million in 2003.

Approximately 9%, 11% and 10% of the Company’s revenues were derived from
sales of production animal and dairy products and services in 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively.



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

We market, sell and service our products in more than 50 countries through
our marketing, sales and technical service groups, as well as through
independent distributors and other resellers. We maintain sales offices
outside the U.S. in Australia, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands,
Spain, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. In 2003, 2002 and 2001 we spent $71.8
million, $57.0 million and $57.1 million or 15%, 14% and 15% of sales,
respectively, on sales and marketing.

Generally, we will select the appropriate distribution channel for our
products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number
and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements and other factors. We
market our veterinary diagnostic and pharmaceutical products to veterinarians
both directly and through independent veterinary distributors in the U.S., with
most instruments and laboratory services sold directly by IDEXX sales
personnel, and test kits, pharmaceutical products and instrument consumables
supplied both via the distribution channel and directly. Outside the U.S., we
sell our veterinary diagnostic products through independent distributors and
other resellers and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force. We
market our software products and veterinary laboratory services through our
direct sales force. We market our water, dairy, and production animal products
primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Canada. Outside the
U.S. and Canada, we market these products through selected independent
distributors and, in certain countries, through our direct sales force.

In 2003, 2002 and 2001, 30%, 29% and 28%, respectively, of our revenue was
attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the U.S.
Risks associated with foreign operations include fluctuations in the value of
foreign currencies, the need for additional regulatory approvals, possible
disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product needs of
foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations,
import/export duties and quotas, and unexpected regulatory, economic or
political changes in foreign markets. We engage in hedging activities to
reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations on our earnings. See Note
17 to the consolidated financial statements for information by geographic
region; Note 2(m) to the consolidated financial statements for a description of
our hedging activities; and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About
Market Risk” for a description of foreign currency exchange risk.

In 2003, 2002 and 2001, no customer accounted for greater than 10% of our
sales. Our largest customers are distributors of our products in the CAG
segment. The largest consumer of our products accounts for approximately 1% of
our sales.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our business includes the development and introduction of new products and
may involve entry into new business areas. Our research and development
activity is focused primarily on development of new animal drugs, new
diagnostic instrument platforms, new immunoassay devices, new diagnostic tests
and improvements to our diagnostic and testing products. Our research and
development expenses, which consists of salaries, employee benefits, materials
and consulting costs, were approximately $32.3 million, $29.3 million and $28.4
million, or 7% of sales, in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

PATENTS AND LICENSES

We actively seek to obtain patent protection in the U.S. and other
countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. We also
license patents and technologies from third parties. These licenses include an
exclusive royalty-bearing license of certain patents relating to diagnostic
products for FIV that expire in 2009, from The Regents of the University of
California; an exclusive royalty-bearing license of certain patents utilized in
the Colilert®, Colilert-18, Colisure® and Enterolert™ water testing
products that expire in 2007; exclusive licenses to certain patents and patent
applications relating to detection of Lyme disease that expire beginning in
2019, from Tulane University and the University of Texas; and a non-exclusive
royalty-bearing license from Barnes-Jewish Hospital to certain patents relating
to canine heartworm tests that expire in 2006. In addition, we hold a U.S.
patent, which expires in 2014, covering certain methods and kits for
simultaneously detecting antigens and antibodies, that covers our SNAP® Combo
FeLV/FIV and Canine SNAP® 3Dx® combination tests.



To the extent some of our products may now, or in the future, embody
technologies protected by patents, copyrights or trade secrets of others, we
may be required to obtain licenses to such technologies in order to continue to
sell our products. These licenses may not be available on commercially
reasonable terms. Our failure to obtain any such licenses may delay or prevent
the sale of certain new or existing products. See “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Future Operating
Results.”

PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY

VetTest® analyzers are manufactured for us by Tokyo Parts Industrial
Company Ltd. under an agreement that renews annually unless either party
notifies the other of its decision not to renew. VetTest® slides are
supplied exclusively by Ortho under supply agreements with Ortho (the “Ortho
Agreements”). We are required to purchase all of our requirements for
VetTest® slides from Ortho to the extent Ortho is able to supply those
requirements. In addition, we have committed to minimum annual purchase
volumes of certain VetTest® slides through 2010. The Ortho Agreements expire
on December 31, 2018.

The QBC®VetAutoread™ system is manufactured for us by Becton Dickinson
under a development and distribution agreement that requires Becton Dickinson
to supply analyzers to us through 2008 and reagents through 2010. Becton
Dickinson is the sole source of these analyzers and reagents.

We purchase certain other products, raw materials and components from only
one source. These include active ingredients for our pharmaceutical products,
including NAVIGATOR®, computed radiography systems and certain components
used in our SNAP® rapid assay devices, water testing products and
LaserCyte® systems. The loss of some of these sources of supply could have a
material adverse effect on the Company.

The supplier of our computed radiography systems has informed us that it
believes we are in breach of our supply agreement. We believe we have complied
fully with that agreement and we have filed suit against that supplier seeking
declaratory judgment from the court that we are not in breach of the agreement,
an order from the court compelling the supplier to honor our agreement and
damages for certain breaches of the agreement by the supplier. The supplier
has asserted counter-claims against us alleging, among other things, breaches
of implied covenants in the contract. We believe we have strong defenses to
these counter-claims and intend to contest them vigorously. An adverse result
in this litigation could result in loss of supply of our computed radiography
instruments and/or a requirement that we pay damages to the supplier. Revenue
from this product line was $1.3 million in 2003.

We do not generally maintain significant backlog and believe that our
backlog at any particular date historically has not been indicative of future
sales.

COMPETITION

We face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our
products and services. We expect that future competition will become even more
intense, and that we will have to compete with changing technologies, which
could affect the marketability of our products and services. Our competitive
position also will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products,
attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop and
implement production and marketing plans, obtain patent protection and obtain
adequate capital resources.

We compete with many companies ranging from small businesses focused on
animal health to large pharmaceutical companies. Our competitors vary in our
different markets. Academic institutions, governmental agencies and other
public and private research organizations also conduct research activities and
may commercialize products, which could compete with our products, on their own
or through joint ventures. Some of our competitors have substantially greater
capital, manufacturing, marketing and research and development resources than
we do.

Competitive factors in our different business areas are detailed below:

•

Veterinary diagnostic products and food and water test products

.
We compete primarily on the basis of the ease of use, speed, accuracy
and other performance characteristics of our products and services, the
breadth of our product line and services, the effectiveness of our
sales and distribution channels, the quality of our technical and
customer service, and pricing.



•

Veterinary laboratory services

. In this market, we compete
primarily on the basis of quality, service, technology, and price. We
compete in certain geographic locations with Antech Diagnostics, a unit
of VCA Antech, Inc.

•

Veterinary pharmaceuticals

. We compete primarily on the basis of
the performance characteristics of our products.

•

Veterinary practice information management software systems

. We
compete primarily on the basis of ease of use, connectivity to
equipment and other systems, performance characteristics, effectiveness
of our customer service, information handling capabilities, advances in
technologies, and price.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Many of our products are subject to regulation by U.S. and foreign
regulatory agencies. The following is a description of the principal
regulations affecting our businesses.

Veterinary diagnostic products

. Most diagnostic tests for animal health
applications are veterinary biological products that are regulated in the U.S.
by the Center for Veterinary Biologics within the USDA Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service (“APHIS”). The APHIS regulatory approval process involves
the submission of product performance data and manufacturing documentation.
Following regulatory approval to market a product, APHIS requires that each lot
of product be submitted for review before release to customers. In addition,
APHIS requires special approval to market products where test results are used
in part for government-mandated disease management programs. A number of
foreign governments accept APHIS approval as part of their separate regulatory
approvals. However, compliance with an extensive regulatory process is
required in connection with marketing diagnostic products in Japan, Germany,
The Netherlands and many other countries. We also are required to have a
facility license from APHIS to manufacture USDA-licensed products. We have
obtained such a license for our manufacturing facility in Westbrook, Maine.

Our instrument systems are medical devices regulated by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (“FDA”) under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC
Act”). While the sale of these products does not require premarket approval by
FDA and does not subject us to the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practices
regulations (“GMPs”), these products must not be adulterated or misbranded
under the FDC Act.

Veterinary pharmaceuticals

. The manufacture and sale of veterinary
pharmaceuticals are regulated by the Center for Veterinary Medicine (“CVM”) of
the FDA. A new animal drug may not be commercially marketed in the U.S. unless
it has been approved as safe and effective by CVM. Approval may be requested
by filing a NADA with CVM containing substantial evidence as to the safety and
effectiveness of the drug. Data regarding manufacturing methods and controls
also are required to be submitted with the NADA. Manufacturers of animal drugs
must also comply with GMPs and Good Laboratory Practices (“GLPs”). Sales of
animal drugs in countries outside the U.S. require compliance with the laws of
those countries, which may be extensive.

Water testing products

. Our water tests are not subject to formal
premarket regulatory approval. However, before a test may be used as part of a
water quality monitoring program required by the EPA, the test must first be
approved by the EPA. The EPA approval process involves submission of extensive
product performance data in accordance with an EPA approved protocol,
evaluation of the data by the EPA and publication for public comment of any
proposed approval in the Federal Register before final approval. Our
Colilert®, Colilert-18, Colisure®, Quanti-Tray®, Filta-Max® and
SimPlate® for heterotropic plate counts (HPC) products have been approved by
the EPA. The sale of water testing products also is subject to extensive and
lengthy regulatory processes in many other countries around the world.

Dairy testing products

. The sale of dairy testing products in the U.S. is
regulated by the FDA in conjunction with the Association of Official Analytical
Chemists - Research Institute (“AOAC-RI”). Before a product may be sold,
extensive product performance data must be submitted in accordance with a
protocol that is approved by the FDA and the AOAC-RI. Following approval of a
product by FDA, the product must also be approved by the National Conference on
Interstate Milk Shipments (“NCIMS”), an oversight body that includes state,
federal and industry representatives. Our dairy antibiotic residue testing
products have been approved by the FDA and NCIMS. While some foreign countries
accept AOAC-RI approval as part of their regulatory approval process, many
countries have separate regulatory processes.



Any acquisitions of new products and technologies may subject us to
additional areas of government regulation. These may involve food, drug and
water quality regulations of the FDA, the EPA and the USDA, as well as state,
local and foreign governments. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Future Operating Results.”

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2003, IDEXX had approximately 2,473 full-time and
part-time employees. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement
and we believe that relations with our employees are good.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We lease approximately 297,000 square feet of office and manufacturing
space in Westbrook, Maine under a lease expiring in 2018; approximately 97,500
square feet of industrial space in Memphis, Tennessee for use as a distribution
facility, under a lease expiring in 2013; approximately 40,000 square feet of
office and manufacturing space in Eau Claire, Wisconsin for our veterinary
practice information management software business, under a lease expiring in
2009; and approximately 48,000 square feet of warehouse and office space in The
Netherlands for use as our headquarters for European operations, under a lease
expiring in 2008.

We also lease a total of approximately 25,000 square feet of smaller
office, manufacturing and warehouse space in the U.S. and elsewhere in the
world. In addition, we own or lease approximately 140,000 square feet of space
in the U.S., Australia and the United Kingdom for use as veterinary reference
laboratories and office space for our veterinary consulting services. Of this
space, 46,000 square feet is owned by us and the remaining amount is leased,
under leases having expiration dates up to the year 2012.

We consider that the properties are generally in good condition, are well
maintained, and are generally suitable and adequate to carry on our business.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are not a party to any material legal proceedings.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

Our executive officers as of February 29, 2004 were as follows:

Name

Age

Title

Jonathan W. Ayers


President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors

William C. Wallen, PhD


Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer

Conan R. Deady


Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

S. Sam Fratoni, PhD


Vice President and Chief Information Officer

Robert S. Hulsy


Vice President

Laurel E. LaBauve


Vice President Worldwide Operations

Merilee Raines


Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

Quentin Tonelli, PhD


Vice President

Mr. Ayers has been Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and
President of IDEXX since January 2002. Prior to joining IDEXX, in 2000 and
2001, Mr. Ayers was President of Carrier Corporation, the largest business unit
of United Technologies Corporation, a provider of high-technology products and
services to the building systems and aerospace industries, and from 1997 to
1999, he was President of Carrier Asia Pacific Operations. From 1995 to 1997,
Mr. Ayers was Vice President, Strategic Planning at United Technologies.
Before



joining United Technologies, from 1991 to 1995, Mr. Ayers was Principal of
Corporate Finance and from 1986 to 1991, he was Vice President of Mergers and
Acquisitions, at Morgan Stanley & Co. Mr. Ayers holds an undergraduate degree
in molecular biophysics and biochemistry from Yale University and an MBA from
Harvard University.

Dr. Wallen has been Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer of
IDEXX since September 2003. Prior to joining IDEXX, Dr. Wallen held various
positions with Bayer Corporation, most recently as Senior Vice President and
Head, Office of Technology for the Diagnostics Division of Bayer Healthcare.
From 2001 to 2003, Dr. Wallen served as Senior Vice President and Head of
Research, Nucleic Acid Diagnostics Segment; from 1999 to 2001 as Senior Vice
President of Research and Development Laboratory Testing Segment; and from 1993
to 1999 as Vice President of Research and Development, Immunodiagnostic and
Clinical Chemistry Business Units. Before joining Bayer Corporation, from 1990
to 1993, Dr. Wallen was Vice President Research and Development at Becton
Dickinson Advanced Diagnostics.

Mr. Deady has been Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since
1999 and was Deputy General Counsel of the Company from 1997 to 1999. Before
joining the Company in 1997, Mr. Deady was Deputy General Counsel of Thermo
Electron Corporation, a manufacturer of technology-based instruments. Mr.
Deady was previously affiliated with Hale and Dorr LLP, a Boston-based law
firm.

Dr. Fratoni has been Vice President of the Company since May 1997 and
Chief Information Officer since November 2000. He was President of the
Company’s Food and Environmental Group from July 1999 to December 2000. From
May 1997 to July 1999, Dr. Fratoni was Vice President of Human Resources of the
Company, and from October 1996 to May 1997, he was Director of Business
Development for the Food and Environmental Group. Before joining the Company
in October 1996, Dr. Fratoni held various positions with Hewlett-Packard
Company.

Mr. Hulsy has been Vice President of the Company since February 1999 and
President of the Company’s IDEXX Laboratory Services business since August
1998. Before joining the Company in August 1998, Mr. Hulsy was President of
American Environmental Network, Inc., a network of environmental laboratories,
from 1992 to 1998.

Ms. LaBauve joined IDEXX as Vice President, Worldwide Operations in
February 2004. From 1999 until 2004, Ms. LaBauve held various senior positions
with the Ortho-Clincial Diagnostics subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, including
General Manager and Vice President, Clinical Laboratory Franchise, from 2002 to
2004; Vice President, Worldwide Systems R&D, from 2000 to 2002; and Vice
President Design Excellence, from 1999 to 2000. Prior to joining Ortho, Ms.
LaBauve held various positions with AlliedSignal Corporation, most recently
serving as Vice President, Six Sigma Quality.

Ms. Raines has been Chief Financial Officer since October 2003 and Vice
President, Finance of the Company since May 1995. Ms. Raines served as
Division Vice President, Finance from March 1995 to May 1995, Director of
Finance from 1988 to March 1995 and Controller from 1985 to 1988.

Dr. Tonelli became Vice President of the Company in June 2001 and
currently oversees the Company’s Production Animal Services and Rapid Assay
lines of business. Previously he has held various positions with the Company,
including Division Vice President for Research and Development and Division
Vice President, Business Development. Before joining the Company in 1984, he
was a Group Leader of Research and Development for the Hepatitis and AIDS
Business Unit within the diagnostic division of Abbott Laboratories, Inc.



PART II.

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Our Common Stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol
IDXX. The table below shows the high and low sale prices per share of our
Common Stock as reported on the NASDAQ Stock Market for the years 2003 and
2002.

CALENDAR YEAR

HIGH

LOW


First Quarter

$

37.94

$

31.31

Second Quarter

39.10

31.87

Third Quarter

45.71

33.40

Fourth Quarter

49.25

42.59


First Quarter

$

29.30

$

24.00

Second Quarter

32.62

24.60

Third Quarter

32.00

23.80

Fourth Quarter

37.05

29.29

As of December 31, 2003, there were 1,068 holders of record of our Common
Stock.

We have never paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock. From time to
time our Board of Directors may consider the declaration of a dividend.
However, we have no present intention to pay a dividend and we expect to use
future earnings to fund the development and growth of the business.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the
Company for each of the five years ended December 31, 2003. The selected
consolidated financial data presented below have been derived from the
Company’s consolidated financial statements. These financial data should be
read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, related notes
and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

*

As a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 142, “Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”,
goodwill is no longer amortized commencing January 1, 2002. Goodwill amortization
expense, net of tax was $4.5 million, $4.1 million and $4.5 million for each of the
years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. See Note 2(e)
to the consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

We operate primarily through three business segments: the Companion Animal
Group (“CAG”), Water testing business (“Water”) and the Food Diagnostics Group
(“FDG”). CAG comprises our veterinary diagnostic products and services (rapid
assays, instruments, instrument consumables and laboratory and consulting
services), veterinary pharmaceuticals, and veterinary information products and
services. Water develops, designs, manufactures and distributes products to
detect contaminants in water. FDG develops, designs, manufactures and
distributes products to detect disease and contaminants in production animals
and food. Other encompasses activities that are not included in our three
business segments and is comprised primarily of corporate research and
development, a CEO succession charge and interest income. We have conformed
the financial information about segments for the years ended December 31, 2002
and 2001 to our presentation of reportable segments for the year ended December
31, 2003. Previously we reported two operating segments.



The following is a discussion of the strategic and operating factors that
we believe have the most significant effect on the performance of our business.

Companion Animal Group

Our CAG segment accounted for approximately 81% of our sales in 2003 and
is, therefore, our most significant business. The largest product lines within
our CAG segment by percentage of revenue in 2003 are:

Percentage of

CAG Revenue

Instruments and consumables


%

Laboratory services


Rapid assays


Other



%

Other consists primarily of practice information management software and
services and pharmaceutical products. To date, revenues from sales of
pharmaceutical products have not been substantial. However, we are investing
significantly in a pipeline of companion animal pharmaceutical products. If we
are successful in developing, obtaining FDA approval for, and marketing these
products, we believe that sales of pharmaceutical products will become a more
material component of CAG sales in the future.

By offering to companion animal veterinarians a broad range and an
integrated set of proprietary diagnostic products and services, therapeutics
and practice management computer systems, we believe we have developed a strong
customer franchise, providing us a strategic advantage over companies with more
narrow product or service offerings. Our complementary products and services
give us scale in sales and distribution in this market, and permit us to offer
programs such as Practice Developer™, a loyalty program that allows clinics
to earn points with purchases, depending on the number of product categories
they purchase from and the volume of those purchases, and to apply earned
points toward, among other things, the purchase of a variety of IDEXX products
and services. By offering both point-of-care diagnostics for use in the clinic
and outside laboratory services, we are able to develop integrated disease
management solutions that leverage the advantages of both point-of-care and
laboratory testing. In addition, by integrating our practice management
software systems with our instruments and with our reference laboratories, we
enhance the veterinary practices of our customers by facilitating the flow of
medical information in the clinic.

In the U.S., we sell instrument consumables, rapid assays and
pharmaceuticals through distributors, and therefore our reported sales of these
products are sales made to distributors, rather than sales to veterinarians,
the end-users. Because distributor inventory levels and purchasing patterns
may fluctuate, sales of a particular product line in a particular period may
not always be representative of the underlying customer demand for the product.
Therefore, we closely track sales of these products by our distributors to the
clinics (“clinic-level sales”), which we think provides a more accurate picture
of the real growth rate for these products. In the discussion of results
below, we note certain instances where we believe reported sales have been
influenced, positively or negatively, by changes in distributor inventories.

Instruments and Instrument Consumables

. Our instrument strategy is to
provide veterinarians with an integrated set of instruments (called IDEXX
VetLab®) that, individually and together, provide superior diagnostic
information in the clinic, enabling veterinarians to practice better medicine
and build more profitable practices. We derive substantial revenues from the
sale of consumables that are used in these instruments. During the early stage
of an instrument life cycle, we derive relatively greater revenues from
instrument placements, while consumable sales become relatively more
significant in later stages as the installed base of instruments increases and
instrument placements begin to decline. Our long-term success in this area of
our business is dependent on our ability both to develop and sell new
instruments with enhanced diagnostic capabilities and to maximize customer
utilization of those instruments, which creates more consumables sales.

We have a large installed base of VetTest® chemistry analyzers, and
substantially all of our revenues from that product line are now derived from
consumables sales, although we continue to place instruments through sales and
through rental and other programs. As a result, the success of this product
line is partially dependent on



increased customer utilization of those
instruments. Toward that end, we seek to educate veterinarians about best
medical practices that emphasize the importance of blood chemistry testing for
a variety of diagnostic purposes.

We purchase the consumables used in VetTest® chemistry analyzers from
Ortho. In October 2003, we entered into a new supply agreement with Ortho,
under which we are developing and will introduce a next-generation chemistry
analyzer for the veterinary market based on the Ortho dry-slide technology, and
Ortho will supply us with the slide consumables used in both the new instrument
and the VetTest® chemistry analyzer. The new agreement provides us with a
source of dry-slide consumables through 2018 at an expected improved cost over
the term of the agreement. The new agreement does not increase, over the prior
agreement, the minimum unit volume of slides we are required to purchase from
Ortho over the term of the agreement. As a result of this new agreement, we
discontinued certain internal development activities relating to an alternative
next-generation clinical chemistry instrument. We incurred a non-cash, pre-tax
charge in the quarter ended December 31, 2003 of approximately $7.4 million for
the impairment of manufacturing equipment purchased for the production of
consumables for use in this alternative instrument.

In the fourth quarter of 2002, we introduced our new hematology analyzer,
the LaserCyte® system, which provides more extensive hematological diagnostic
information than our original platform, the QBC® VetAutoread™ system. Our
success in growing hematology revenues over the next several years will depend
upon our ability to sell LaserCyte® instruments, although we intend to
continue to sell the QBC® VetAutoread™ system. We do not intend to rent
LaserCyte® instruments in the foreseeable future. At earlier stages in the
life cycle of this product, a substantial portion of LaserCyte® placements
will be made at veterinary clinics that already own our QBC® VetAutoread™
instruments. As a result, net consumables sales are not likely to grow
significantly in the near future, as we expect the increase in LaserCyte®
consumable sales to be largely offset by declines in sales of QBC®
VetAutoread™ consumables. However, we believe that the enhanced diagnostic
capabilities of the LaserCyte® system will lead veterinarians to perform more
in-clinic hematology testing, which will increase consumables sales as our
installed base of LaserCyte® systems increases. In addition, we expect the
gross margin percentage of LaserCyte® consumables to exceed the gross margin
percentage of the QBC® VetAutoread™ consumables.

With all of our instrument lines, we seek to differentiate our products
based on superior system capability, quality of diagnostic information,
reliability and customer service. Our equipment and consumables typically are
sold at a premium price to competitive offerings. Our success depends on our
ability to maintain a premium price strategy. In addition, our in-clinic
instrumentation competes with outside laboratory services for similar
diagnostic information, and such services are typically offered at a lower
cost. Therefore, our success also depends on our ability to market the
relative attractiveness of in-clinic diagnostic testing, versus less convenient
and timely, but lower priced, laboratory testing.

Laboratory Services

. We believe that more than half of all diagnostic
testing by U.S. veterinarians is done at outside reference laboratories such as
our IDEXX Reference Laboratories. We attempt to differentiate our laboratory
testing services from those of our competitors primarily on the basis of
quality, customer service and technology. Revenue growth in this business is
achieved both through increased sales at existing laboratories and through the
acquisition of new customers. In the third quarter of 2003 we acquired a
laboratory in Kentucky, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we opened a new
laboratory in Atlanta and in the first quarter of 2004 we acquired a laboratory
in Columbus, Ohio. Profitability of this business is largely the result of our
ability to achieve efficiencies from both volume and operational improvements.

Rapid Assays

. Our rapid assay business comprises single-use kits for
in-clinic testing and microwell-based kits for large clinic and laboratory
testing for canine and feline diseases and conditions. Our two principal
product lines are canine heartworm products and the SNAP® FIV antibody/FeLV
antigen combination test. Our rapid assay strategy is to develop, manufacture,
market and sell proprietary tests with superior performance that address
important medical needs. As in our other lines of business, we also seek to
differentiate our products through superior customer support. These products
carry price premiums over competitive products that we believe do not offer
equivalent performance and diagnostic capabilities, and which we believe do not
include a similar level of support. We augment our product development and
customer service efforts with marketing programs that enhance medical awareness
and understanding regarding our target diseases and the importance of
diagnostic testing.



Water

Our strategy in the water testing business is to develop, manufacture,
market and sell proprietary products
with superior performance, supported by exceptional customer service. Our
customers are primarily water utilities to whom strong relationships and
customer support are very important. Over the past several years the rate of
growth of this product line has slowed as a result of increased competition and
market penetration. International sales of water testing products represented
37% of total water product sales in 2003, and we expect that future growth in
this business will be significantly dependent on our ability to increase
international sales. Growth also will be dependent on our ability to enhance
and broaden our product line. Most water microbiological testing is driven by
regulation, and in many countries a test may not be used for regulatory testing
unless it has been approved by the applicable regulatory body. As a result, we
maintain an active regulatory program under which we are seeking regulatory
approvals in a number of countries, primarily in Europe.

Food Diagnostics Group

Production Animal Services

. We develop, manufacture, market and sell a
broad range of tests for various poultry, cattle and swine diseases and
conditions, and have an active research and development and in-licensing
program in this area. Our strategy is to offer proprietary tests with superior
performance characteristics. Disease outbreaks are episodic and unpredictable,
and certain diseases that are prevalent at one time may be substantially
contained or eradicated. In response to outbreaks, testing initiatives may lead
to exceptional demand for certain products in certain periods. Conversely,
successful eradication programs may result in significantly decreased demand
for certain products. The performance of this business, therefore, can be
subject to fluctuation. In 2003, approximately 70% of our sales in this
business was international. Because of the significant dependence of this
business on international sales, the performance of the business is
particularly subject to the various risks described below that are associated
with doing business internationally.

Dairy Testing

. Our strategy in the dairy testing business is to develop,
manufacture and sell antibiotic residue testing products that satisfy
applicable regulatory requirements for testing of bulk milk by producers and
provide reliable field performance. Sales of dairy testing products have
declined over the last several years largely as a result of increased
competition in the domestic market. To increase sales of dairy testing
products, we will need to increase penetration in geographies outside the
United States and in the farm segment of the dairy market.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of
operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make
estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including
those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts,
inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty
obligations, restructuring and contingencies and litigation. We base our
estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
may differ from these estimates.

We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect our more
significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated
financial statements.

Inventory

Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at
the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. We write down inventory for
estimated obsolescence when warranted by our estimates of future demand and
market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those
estimated by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required,
which would have a negative effect on our results of operations.

As of December 31, 2003, our inventories included $7.2 million of
component parts and finished goods associated with our LaserCyte® hematology
instrument, which we began shipping to customers in fourth quarter of



2002. In
addition, we have firm purchase commitments for an additional $3.5 million. We
expect to fully realize our investment and purchase commitments. However, if we
alter the design of this product, we may be required to write off some or all
of the associated inventory.

Valuation of Long-lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill

We assess the impairment of identifiable intangibles, long-lived assets
and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that
could trigger an impairment review include but are not limited to the
following:

When we determine that the carrying value of intangibles, long-lived
assets and goodwill may not be recoverable based on a change in events and
circumstances discussed above, we measure any impairment based on factors such
as projected cash flows. Net intangible assets and goodwill amounted to $61.8
million as of December 31, 2003, consisting of $25.2 million related to
veterinary laboratories (of which $24.6 million represents goodwill), $17.3
million related to water test products (of which $14.9 million represents
goodwill), $16.0 million related to veterinary pharmaceutical products (of
which $13.7 million represents goodwill) and $3.3 million of other (of which
$1.8 million represents goodwill).

In 2002, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 and as a result, we ceased to amortize goodwill, but
continued to amortize all other intangibles. We had recorded approximately $5.0
million of goodwill amortization on these amounts during the year ended
December 31, 2001, and would have recorded approximately $4.5 million of
goodwill amortization during the same periods in 2003 and 2002, if the existing
standards had been continued. In addition, we recorded $0.5 million, $0.6
million and $1.5 million of other intangible amortization during the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In lieu of goodwill
amortization, we were required to perform annual impairment reviews of our
goodwill. No impairment was found as a result of either our initial impairment
review or our 2003 and 2002 year-end reviews.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue when four criteria are met. These include (i)
persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred or
services have been rendered, (iii) the seller’s price is fixed and
determinable, and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.

•

We recognize revenue at the time of shipment to distributors for
substantially all products, as title and risk of loss pass to these
customers on delivery to the common carrier. We recognize revenue for
the remainder of our customers when the product is delivered, except as
noted below. Our distributors do not have the right to return
products.

•

We recognize revenue on sales of instruments after the instrument
is installed because installation is considered essential to the
usability of the instrument, and the customer has accepted the
instrument.

•

We recognize service revenue at the time the service is performed.

•

We recognize revenue associated with extended maintenance
agreements ratably over the life of the contracts. Amounts collected
in advance of revenue recognition are recorded as a current or
long-term liability based on the time from the balance sheet date to
the future date of revenue recognition.



•

We recognize revenue from noncancelable software licenses and
hardware systems upon installation of the software (and completion of
training if applicable) or hardware and customer acceptance because
collection is probable and we have no significant further obligations.

•

We recognize revenue on certain instrument systems under rental
programs over the life of the rental agreement. Amounts collected in
advance of revenue recognition are recorded as a current or long-term
liability based on the time from the balance sheet date to the future
date of revenue recognition.

When instruments are sold together with extended maintenance agreements,
we allocate revenue to the extended maintenance agreement under EITF 00-21,
“Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.” Accordingly
the total consideration received is allocated to the elements based on their
relative fair values, which is determined by amounts charged separately for the
delivered and undelivered elements to other customers. The deferred revenue
related to the extended maintenance agreements is recognized ratably over the
maintenance period. The delivered elements are recognized as revenue when
appropriate under the policies described above. Shipping costs reimbursed by
the customer are included in revenue.

We record estimated reductions to revenue in connection with customer
programs and incentive offerings, which may give customers future rights such
as free or discounted goods or services or trade-in rights. We estimate these
reductions based on our experience with similar customer programs in prior
years. Revenue reductions are finalized on a quarterly basis for most programs
upon issuance of credits or free or discounted products. For the
SNAP-Up-the-Savings™ program, estimates of future customer credits are
revised quarterly and finalized annually in the third quarter of each year upon
the issuance of credits to customers. For our Practice Developer™ volume
discount program, we have reduced revenue assuming all points granted will
result in future credits because we do not have sufficient experience with this
program to estimate customer point forfeitures.

We recognize revenue only in those situations where collection from the
customer is reasonably assured. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts
for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make
required payments. We base our estimates on detailed analysis of specific
client situations and percentage of our accounts receivable by aging category.
If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in
an impairment of their ability to make payment, additional allowances might be
required.

Income Taxes

We account for income taxes under SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income
Taxes.” This statement requires that we recognize a current tax liability or
asset for current taxes payable or refundable, respectively; and a deferred tax
liability or asset, as the case may be, for the estimated future tax effects of
temporary differences between book and tax treatment of assets and liabilities
and carryforwards to the extent they are realizable. We record a valuation
allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely
than not to be realized. We have recorded a valuation allowance on certain
deferred tax assets that relate to state and international net operating loss
carryforwards and certain other unrealizable international deferred tax assets.
While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible
tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in
the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred
tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to
the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination
was made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize
all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the
deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination
was made.

We do not provide for U.S. income taxes on earnings of our subsidiaries
outside of the U.S. As of December 31, 2003, we had unremitted earnings in
subsidiaries outside the U.S. of $60.4 million, on which no U.S. taxes have
been provided. Our intention is to reinvest these earnings permanently or to
repatriate the earnings only when tax-effective to do so. It is not practical
to estimate the amount of additional taxes that might be payable upon
repatriation of foreign earnings.



Warranty Reserves

We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time
revenue is recognized. Our actual warranty obligation is affected by product
failure rates and service costs incurred in correcting a product failure.
Should actual product failure rates or service costs differ from our estimates,
which are based on historical data and engineering estimates, where applicable,
revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. As of December
31, 2003 and 2002, we had accrued $3.7 million and $0.3 million
for estimated warranty expense, respectively. Warranty expense was $4.0 million, $0.4 million
and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

The increase in warranty accrual and expense is due to our launch of the
LaserCyte® system in the fourth quarter of 2002. We expect sales of
LaserCyte® will continue to increase in 2004 and beyond. We will charge
warranty expense to the cost of LaserCyte® sales based upon our experience
with instrument sales and engineering information about the system. Should
actual warranty expense exceed our estimates, our cost of sales of LaserCyte®
systems would increase.

Estimates for Certain Claims

We purchase insurance policies annually for individual and aggregate
amounts of employee health insurance claims. We are self-insured for up to
$0.1 million per claim and up to an aggregate limit based on the number of
employees enrolled in the plan per month, which is estimated to be $10 million
annually. We estimate our liability for employee health claims based on
individual and aggregate coverage, our monthly claims experience, the number of
employees enrolled in the program, and the average time from when a claim is
incurred to the time it is reported.

We purchase workers’ compensation insurance policies annually. Prior to
January 1, 2003, we were fully insured for workers’ compensation claims.
Beginning January 1, 2003, we purchased an insurance policy where we are liable
for the first $0.25 million in claims per occurrence and up to an aggregate
limit based on payroll, which is estimated to be $1.4 million for 2003. We
renewed this policy effective January 1, 2004. We estimate our liability for
workers’ compensation claims based on the insurance policy limits, claims
incurred and the estimated ultimate cost to litigate and/or settle the claims.

Periodically we are notified that a claim is being made against us. We
evaluate each claim based on the facts and circumstances of each claim. If
warranted, we provide for our best estimate of the cost to settle or litigate
the claim and evaluate the liability recorded quarterly.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December
31, 2002

Revenue

Total Company.

Revenue for the total company increased $63.3 million, or
15%, to $476.0 million from $412.7 million in the same period of the prior
year. The following table presents revenue for the Company and its operating
segments:

Percentage

Percentage

Change from

Net Sales (in thousands)



Dollar Change

Change

Currency

CAG

$

384,419

$

326,897

$

57,522

17.6

%

3.6

%

WATER

46,936

41,969

4,967

11.8

%

4.2

%

FDG

44,637

43,804


1.9

%

8.0

%

Total

$

475,992

$

412,670

$

63,322

15.3

%

4.1

%



Companion Animal Group.

Revenue for CAG increased $57.5 million, or 18%,
to $384.4 million from $326.9 million in the same period of the prior year.
This increase resulted primarily from sales of instruments, rapid assay
products, instrument consumables, laboratory services, pharmaceutical products,
and veterinary practice management software and services. The favorable impact
of currency exchange rates on sales outside the U.S. contributed an aggregate
of $11.8 million, or 4%, to the increase in CAG revenue.

The increase in sales of instruments (an increase of approximately $18.5
million, or 127%) was due primarily to increased sales of the LaserCyte®
hematology system, which was launched in the fourth quarter of 2002, partially
offset by lower sales of QBC® VetAutoread ™ systems.

The increase in sales of rapid assay products (an increase of
approximately $13.2 million, or 18%) was due to increased domestic clinic-level
sales of canine products and to a lesser degree, feline products, higher
average unit prices, the impact of reductions in distributors’ inventory levels
in 2002 and the favorable impact of currency exchange rates on sales outside
the U.S. The increased sales volume was due in part to the apparent temporary
difficulty of one of our competitors in supplying certain competitive products
to the market. In January 2004 this competitor announced that it had reentered
the heartworm market. In addition, another competitor announced that it has
entered the heartworm market. As a result, we believe that competition in the
heartworm market will increase in 2004.

The increase in sales of instrument consumables (an increase of
approximately $13.1 million, or 12%) was due primarily to increased sales of
VetTest® slides and, to a lesser extent, LaserCyte® tubes, partially offset
by reduced sales of QBC® VetAutoread ™ tubes resulting from the
replacement of QBC® VetAutoread ™ systems by LaserCyte® systems. The
overall increase in sales of instrument consumables was due to the favorable
impact of currency exchange rates on sales outside the U.S., the impact of
reductions in distributors’ inventory levels in 2002, higher volume outside the
U.S. and increased domestic clinic-level sales.

Shipments to distributors of our consumables and rapid assay products
during 2002 were significantly reduced by the Company as part of a plan to
reduce product inventories held by distributors. The reduced shipments during
2002 create a favorable year-to-year comparison that causes reported growth in
2003 to exceed the Company’s estimates of the underlying clinic-level growth
for these products.

The increase in sales of laboratory services (an increase of approximately
$11.9 million, or 15%) resulted primarily from higher volume primarily in the
US and to a lesser extent in the UK and Australia, the favorable impact of
currency exchange rates on sales at our laboratories outside the U.S. and
favorable pricing.

The increase in sales of pharmaceutical products (an increase of
approximately $1.8 million, or 35%), resulted from sales of a product
licensed to a third party and to a lesser extent growth of existing products.

The increase in sales of veterinary practice management software and
services (an increase of approximately $0.6 million, or 3%), resulted primarily
from higher volume of complete system sales, and increased hardware sales.

Water.

Revenue for Water increased $5.0 million, or 12%, to $46.9 million
from $42.0 million for the same period of the prior year. The increase resulted
primarily from higher sales volume of water testing products and the favorable
impact of currency exchange rates on sales outside the U.S. The favorable
impact of currency exchange rates on sales outside the U.S. contributed an
aggregate of $1.8 million, or 4%, to the increase in Water revenue.

Food Diagnostics Group.

Revenue for FDG increased $0.8 million, or 2%, to
$44.6 million from $43.8 million for the same period of the prior year. The
increase was due to the favorable impact of currency exchange rates on sales
outside the U.S. The favorable impact of currency exchange rates on sales
outside the U.S. contributed an aggregate of $3.5 million, or 8%, to the
increase in FDG revenue.

The increase in sales of production animal diagnostics (an increase of
approximately $1.1 million, or 4%) resulted from the favorable impact of
currency exchange rates on sales outside the U.S. These increases were
partially offset by lower average unit prices and sales volume.



The decrease in sales of dairy testing products (a decrease of
approximately $0.3 million, or 2%) was attributable to lower unit sales volume,
offset partially by the favorable impact of currency exchange rates on sales
outside the U.S.

Gross Profit

Total Company.

Gross profit for the total company increased $37.6 million,
or 20%, to $230.3 million from $192.7 million for the same period in the prior
year. As a percentage of total company revenue, gross profit increased to 48%
in 2003 from 47% in 2002. The following table presents gross profit and gross
profit percentage for the Company and its operating segments:

Percent of

Percent of

Gross Profit (in thousands)


Sales


Sales

CAG

$

175,612

45.7

%

$

142,726

43.7

%

WATER

31,483

67.1

%

28,612

68.2

%

FDG

23,209

52.0

%

21,387

48.8

%

Total

$

230,304

48.4

%

$

192,725

46.7

%

Companion Animal Group.

Gross profit for CAG increased $32.9 million, or
23%, to $175.6 million from $142.7 million in the same period of the prior year
due to increased sales volume across the CAG product lines and, to a lesser
extent, to an increase in the gross profit percentage. As a percentage of CAG
revenue, gross profit increased to 46% from 44% for the same period in the
prior year. The increase in gross profit percentage was attributable primarily
to greater relative sales of rapid assay products and the 2003 termination of a
low margin veterinary referral business, productivity improvements across CAG
product lines in service and distribution operations, the favorable impact of
foreign currency rates on sales denominated in those currencies, net of foreign
exchange hedge contract losses, reduced amortization of VetTest® instruments
in our rental and trade-up programs as units become fully amortized and
increased average unit prices of rapid assay products and laboratory services.
These increases were partially offset by higher sales of our lower gross margin
LaserCyte® hematology instrument and by the higher cost of VetTest® slides
purchased in 2002 and sold in 2003 as a result of the 2002 renegotiation of our
VetTest® slide supply agreement with Ortho. VetTest® slides purchased in
2002 were sold as of the end of the third quarter of 2003. Therefore, beginning
in the fourth quarter of 2003, the associated cost of sales was reduced to a
level more comparable with the first nine months of 2002.

Water.

Gross profit for Water increased $2.9 million, or 10%, to $31.5
million from $28.6 million for the same period in the prior year, primarily due
to increased revenue partially offset by a decrease in the gross profit
percentage. As a percentage of Water revenue, gross profit decreased to 67%
from 68% for the same period in the prior year. The decrease in gross profit
percentage was attributable primarily to higher royalty expenses, the net
impact of currency exchange and exchange contract losses, unfavorable
manufacturing variances, and an unfavorable product mix of higher sales of
lower margin accessories.

Food Diagnostics Group.

Gross profit for FDG increased $1.8 million, or
9%, to $23.2 million from $21.4 million for the same period in the prior year,
primarily due to an increase in the gross profit percentage. As a percentage of
FDG revenue, gross profit increased to 52% from 49% for the same period in the
prior year. The increase in gross profit percentage was attributable primarily
to reduced inventory writedowns in 2003 compared to those recognized in the
same period in 2002, primarily on an instrument and related components sold by
the dairy business.



Operating Expenses

Total Company.

Total company operating expenses increased $23.0 million to
$149.9 from $126.9 million for the same period of the prior year. As a
percentage of revenues, operating expenses remained flat at 31%. The following
tables present operating expenses and operating income for the Company and its
operating segments:

Operating Expenses

Percentage of

Percentage of

Dollar

Percentage

(in thousands)


Sales


Sales

Change

Change

CAG

$

120,396

31.3

%

$

96,674

29.6

%

$

23,722

24.5

%

WATER

10,549

22.5

%

10,235

24.4

%


3.1

%

FDG

15,603

35.0

%

13,724

31.3

%

1,879

13.7

%

Other

3,369

N/A

6,277

N/A

(2,908

)

(46.3

%)

Total

$

149,917

31.5

%

$

126,910

30.8

%

$

23,007

18.1

%

Operating Income

Percentage of

Percentage of

Dollar

Percentage

(in thousands)


Sales


Sales

Change

Change

CAG

$

55,216

14.4

%

$

46,052

14.1

%

$

9,164

19.9

%

WATER

20,934

44.6

%

18,377

43.8

%

2,557

13.9

%

FDG

7,606

17.0

%

7,663

17.5

%

(57

)

(0.7

%)

Other

(3,369

)

N/A

(6,277

)

N/A

2,908

(46.3

%)

Total

$

80,387

16.9

%

$

65,815

15.9

%

$

14,572

22.1

%

Companion Animal Group.

Operating expenses for CAG increased $23.7
million, or 25%, to $120.4 million from $96.7 million in the same period of the
prior year. The increase was attributable to a 28% (approximately $12.7
million) increase in sales and marketing expense, a $7.5 million increase in
other expense, a 9% (approximately $1.9 million) increase in research and
development expense, and a 6% (approximately $1.7 million) increase in general
and administrative expense. The increase in sales and marketing expenses
resulted primarily from increased personnel and marketing program costs,
increased costs to support the ramp up in LaserCyte® sales and the
unfavorable impact of foreign currency denominated expenses.

The increase in other expense is primarily due to a $7.4 million charge
for the write-down of production equipment purchased for the manufacture of
consumables for use in an alternative clinical chemistry system. In October
2003 we extended our relationship with Ortho, which supplies the VetTest
slides. We committed to develop a next generation clinical chemistry system
based on Ortho’s dry slide technology and discontinued efforts to develop the
alternative system.

The increase in research and development expense results from increased
staffing. The increase in administrative expenses reflects higher spending on
information technology and other corporate functions and an increase in bad
debt provisions, offset partially by the elimination of certain expenses
related to legal matters that concluded in 2002.

Water.

Operating expenses for Water increased $0.3 million, or 3%, to
$10.5 million from $10.2 million in the same period of the prior year. The
increase was attributable to a 21% (approximately $0.9 million) increase in
sales and marketing expenses and an 11% (approximately $0.2 million) increase
in research and development expenses, partly offset by a $0.8 million reduction
in other expenses. The increase in sales and marketing expenses resulted
primarily from increased marketing activities and headcount. The increase in
research and development expenses was due to new product development efforts.
The decrease in other expenses reflects the absence of certain non-recurring
expenses that were recognized in 2002 associated with a write-off of intangible
assets and litigation that concluded in 2002.

Food Diagnostics Group.

Operating expenses for FDG increased $1.9 million,
or 14%, to $15.6 million from $13.7 million in the same period of the prior
year. The increase was attributable to a 23% (approximately $1.4 million)
increase in sales and marketing expenses, a 17% ($0.7 million) increase in
administrative expenses, and a 16% ($0.6 million) increase in research and
development expenses, partly offset by a $0.8 million increase in other income.
The increase in sales and marketing expenses resulted primarily from increased
marketing activities and headcount, and from expenses incurred in connection
with the formation of the China joint venture (see Note 14 to



the consolidated financial statements). The increase in administrative
expenses reflects an increase in administrative support expenses outside of the
U.S., including support of the China joint venture and higher spending on
information technology and other corporate functions. The increase in research
and development expenses was due to new product development efforts, primarily
related to products for diagnosis of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.
The increase in other income was primarily due to a favorable revision of an
estimate of royalty obligations under a technology license.

Other.

Operating expenses for 2003 decreased $2.9 million or 46% to $3.4
million from $6.3 million for the same period in period in the year. The
decrease resulted primarily from $3.4 million in non-recurring benefits
provided in 2002 in connection with the retirement of our former Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer in January 2002, partly offset by corporate research
and development hiring costs incurred in 2003.

Interest Income

Net interest income was $2.9 million for 2003 compared with $3.0 million
during 2002. The decrease was due to lower effective interest rates and the
receipt in 2002 of $0.3 million in interest on a domestic tax refund. The
decrease was partially offset by interest earned on higher invested cash
balances.

Provision for Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate was 31.5% for 2003 compared with 34.0% for 2002.
The decrease in the effective rate is due to ongoing domestic and international
tax planning initiatives, revisions to prior year international tax estimates
and the charge to write-down fixed assets discussed above occurring in a
high-tax jurisdiction. The write-down reduced the effective tax rate by 0.5%.

Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December
31, 2001

Revenue

Total Company.

Revenue for the total company increased $26.6 million, or
7%, to $412.7 million from $386.1 million in the same period of the prior year.
The following table presents revenue for the Company and its operating
segments:

Percentage

Percentage

Change from

Net Sales (in thousands)



Dollar Change

Change

Currency

CAG

$

326,897

$

308,048

$

18,849

6.1

%

0.7

%

WATER

41,969

38,303

3,666

9.6

%

1.0

%

FDG

43,804

39,730

4,074

10.3

%

1.5

%

Total

$

412,670

$

386,081

$

26,589

6.9

%

0.9

%

Companion Animal Group.

Revenue for CAG increased $18.8 million, or 6%, to
$326.9 million from $308.0 million in the same period of the prior year. The
increase resulted primarily from sales of laboratory services and instrument
consumables and, to a lesser extent, rapid assay products, veterinary practice
management software and services and instruments. These increases were
partially offset by reduced sales of pharmaceutical products. The favorable
impact of currency exchange rates on sales outside the U.S. contributed an
aggregate of $2.3 million or 1% to the increase CAG revenue.

The increase in sales of laboratory services (an increase of approximately
$7.3 million, or 10%) resulted primarily from higher volume worldwide and, to a
lesser extent, price increases in the U.S. and the impact of currency exchange
rates on sales at our laboratories outside the U.S.

The increase in sales of instrument consumables (an increase of
approximately $6.2 million, or 6%) resulted primarily from increased unit sales
of VetTest® slides worldwide and, to a lesser extent, the impact of currency
exchange rates on sales outside of the U.S. The increase in revenues was
positively impacted by depressed 2001 sales that resulted from a late 2000
marketing program that pulled sales into 2000. Revenues were negatively
impacted due to a decrease in distributor inventories of instrument consumables
in 2002.



The increase in sales of rapid assay products (an increase of
approximately $3.1 million, or 5%) resulted primarily from increased
clinic-level sales of canine heartworm and feline test kits, offset primarily
by the negative impact of changes in distributor inventory levels, and
increased accruals on sales of canine heartworm test kits due to higher
customer participation in a volume rebate program.

The increase in sales of veterinary practice management software and
services (an increase of approximately $1.4 million, or 7%), resulted primarily
from higher volume of complete system sales, and increased hardware upgrade
sales.

The increase in sales of instruments (an increase of approximately $1.1
million, or 8%) was due to sales of LaserCyte® systems and, to a lesser
extent, VetTest® systems, partially offset by reduced sales of our QBC®
VetAutoread™ hematology instrument, primarily due to a shift in marketing
and customer focus to the LaserCyte® system.

The decrease in sales of pharmaceutical products (a decrease of $0.3
million or 6%) was due to a decline in sales of the Company’s ACAREXX® feline
ear mite treatment, offset partially by increased sales of PZI VET® insulin,
which was launched on a commercial basis in the fourth quarter of 2002.

Water.

Revenue for Water increased $3.7 million, or 10%, to $42.0 million
from $38.3 million for the same period of the prior year. The increase resulted
primarily from increased sales volume in Europe and the Americas, and to a
lesser extent, price increases in the U.S.

Food Diagnostics Group.

Revenue for FDG increased $4.1 million, or 10%, to
$43.8 million from $39.7 million for the same period of the prior year. The
increase was primarily due to increased sales of production animal diagnostics
offset partially by a decrease in sales of dairy testing products.

The increase in sales of production animal diagnostics (an increase of
approximately $4.9 million, or 22%) resulted primarily from higher unit sales
of livestock products and, to a lesser extent, price increases on livestock
products and the impact of currency exchange rates on sales outside of the U.S.
Approximately half of the increased sales of livestock products were the
result of government sponsored testing initiatives in Germany.

The decrease in sales of dairy testing products (a decrease of
approximately $0.8 million, or 5%) was primarily attributable to lower unit
sales volume as a result of increased competition.

Gross Profit

Total Company.

Gross profit for the total company increased $9.4 million,
or 5%, to $192.7 million from $183.3 million for the same period in the prior
year.As a percentage of total company revenue, gross profit remained flat at
47%.The following table presents gross profit and gross profit percentage for
the Company and its operating segments:

Percent of

Percent of

Gross Profit (in thousands)


Sales


Sales

CAG

$

142,726

43.7

%

$

137,782

44.7

%

WATER

28,612

68.2

%

26,130

68.2

%

FDG

21,387

48.8

%

19,419

48.9

%

Total

$

192,725

46.7

%

$

183,331

47.5

%

Companion Animal Group.

Gross profit for CAG increased $4.9 million, or
4%, to $142.7 million from $137.8 million in the same period of the prior year,
primarily due to increased sales volume across the CAG product lines, partially
offset by a reduction in the gross profit percentage. As a percentage of CAG
revenue, gross profit declined from 45% for the same period in the prior year
to 44%. The decrease in gross profit percentage was attributable primarily to
foreign exchange hedge contract losses in 2002 compared to gains in 2001;
increased amortization due to additional placements of VetTest® instruments
in our rental and trade-up programs; and a net unfavorable change in
manufacturing variances. These factors were offset partially by productivity
improvements across CAG product lines, partly due to increased revenue spread
against the fixed cost portion of our expense base;



the positive impact of the strengthening of the Euro and British Pound on
sales denominated in those currencies; reversal of an accrual for potential
loss on our VetTest® slide supply agreement with Ortho as a result of an
amendment to our supply agreement in October 2002 that reduced our minimum
purchase obligations under the agreement; and higher prices, primarily on
laboratory services and feline test kits.

Water.

Gross profit for Water increased $2.5 million, or 9%, to $28.6
million from $26.1 million for the same period in the prior year, primarily due
to increased sales volume. As a percentage of Water revenue, gross profit was
unchanged at 68%. Gross profit percentage benefited from favorable
manufacturing variances and reduced inventory writedowns, higher prices, and
the positive impact of the strengthening of the Euro and British Pound on
revenue. These increases were offset by higher distribution costs.

Food Diagnostics Group.

Gross profit for FDG increased $2.0 million, or
10%, to $21.4 million from $19.4 million for the same period in the prior year,
primarily due to increased sales volume in production animal diagnostics. As a
percentage of FDG revenue, gross profit was unchanged at 49%. Gross profit
percentage benefited from a favorable mix of higher margin poultry and
livestock products, reduced distribution and freight costs, higher prices for
livestock products, and the positive impact of the strengthening of the Euro
and British Pound on revenue. These increases were offset by higher inventory
writedowns of certain dairy and production animal diagnostic products and
royalty accruals on certain livestock products.

Operating Expenses

Total Company.

Total company operating expenses increased $0.1 million to
$126.9 from $126.8 million for the same period of the prior year. As a
percentage of revenues, operating expenses declined to 31% from 33%. The
following tables present operating expenses and operating income for the
Company and its operating segments:

Operating Expenses

Percentage of

Percentage of

Dollar

Percentage

(in thousands)


Sales


Sales

Change

Change

CAG

$

96,674

29.6

%

$

101,183

32.8

%

$

(4,509

)

(4.5

%)

WATER

10,235

24.4

%

9,807

25.6

%


4.4

%

FDG

13,724

31.3

%

13,066

32.9

%


5.0

%

Other

6,277

N/A

2,723

N/A

3,554

130.5

%

Total

$

126,910

30.8

%

$

126,779

32.8

%

$


0.1

%

Operating Income

Percentage of

Percentage of

Dollar

Percentage

(in thousands)


Sales


Sales

Change

Change

CAG

$

46,052

14.1

%

$

36,599

11.9

%

$

9,453

25.8

%

WATER

18,377

43.8

%

16,323

42.6

%

2,054

12.6

%

FDG

7,663

17.5

%

6,353

16.0

%

1,310

20.6

%

Other

(6,277

)

N/A

(2,723

)

N/A

(3,554

)

130.5

%

Total

$

65,815

15.9

%

$

56,552

14.6

%

$

9,263

16.4

%

Companion Animal Group.

Operating expenses for CAG decreased $4.5 million,
or 4%, to $96.7 million from $101.2 million in the same period of the prior
year. This decrease resulted primarily from the impact of adoption of SFAS No.
142 (under which the Company ceased amortizing goodwill); a reduction in
severance and related costs; a reduction in marketing expense associated with
feline diagnostic products (due to a direct-to-consumer marketing campaign in
2001); a reduction in bad debt expense; and savings from the consolidation of
our pharmaceuticals and companion animal diagnostics sales forces. These
decreases were offset partially by increased spending on sales and marketing
(including the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange) to support higher sales
volumes; litigation spending, net of a settlement received, related to the
Company’s patent infringement lawsuit against Abaxis, Inc. and S.A. Scientific,
Inc.; and increased research and development expenses.

Water.

Operating expenses for Water increased $0.4 million, or 4%, to
$10.2 million from $9.8 million in the same period of the prior year. The
increase was attributable to the write-off of non-performing intangible assets
(associated with the 2000 acquisition of Genera Technologies Limited),
litigation that concluded in 2002, and new product development efforts, offset
partially by the impact of adoption of SFAS No. 142 and a reduction in bad debt
expense.



Food Diagnostics Group.

Operating expenses for FDG increased $0.7 million,
or 5%, to $13.7 million from $13.1 million in the same period of the prior
year. The increase was primarily due to new product development efforts,
primarily related to products for diagnosis of transmissible spongiform
encephalopathies; increased marketing activities and headcount; and an increase
in administrative support expenses outside of the U.S. These increases were
partially offset by a decrease in bad debt experience.

Other.

Operating expenses for other, which consist of $2.9 million in
corporate research and development and $3.4 million in charges related to our
Chief Executive Officer succession, increased $3.6 million to $6.3 million from
$2.7 million in the same period of the prior year. The increase resulted
primarily from benefits provided in connection with the retirement of our
former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in January 2002. Under an
employment agreement, we were required to make certain payments to our former
Chief Executive Officer and provide certain benefits to him following his
retirement and the succession to our new Chief Executive Officer. During 2002
we incurred charges under this agreement of $3.4 million, of which $1.8 million
was non-cash.

Interest Income

Net interest income was $3.0 million for 2002 compared with $2.2 million
during 2001. The increase was due to higher invested cash balances and the
receipt of $0.3 million in interest on a domestic tax refund. These increases
were partially offset by lower effective interest rates.

Provision for Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate was 34% for 2002 compared with 36% for 2001. The
reduction in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the elimination of
nondeductible goodwill associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 142.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In November 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) reached consensus on EITF No. 00-21,
“Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables” (“EITF No.
00-21”). EITF No. 00-21 addresses the accounting treatment for arrangements
that provide for the delivery or performance of multiple products or services
where the delivery of a product, system or performance of services may occur at
different points in time or over different periods of time. EITF No. 00-21
requires the separation of the multiple deliverables that meet certain
requirements into individual units of accounting that are accounted for
separately under the appropriate authoritative accounting literature. EITF No.
00-21 is applicable to revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods
beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company adopted the provisions of EITF No.
00-21 effective January 2003. The adoption of EITF No. 00-21 had no material
impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107
and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34” (“FIN 45”). FIN 45 requires that
a guarantor recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the
fair value of the obligation undertaken by issuing the guarantee. FIN 45 also
requires additional disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and
annual financial statements about its obligation under certain guarantees it
has issued. The accounting requirements for the initial recognition of
guarantees are applicable on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or
modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective
for all guarantees outstanding, regardless of when they were issued or
modified, for financial statements for interim or annual periods ending after
December 15, 2002. We have adopted the additional disclosure provisions of this
statement required for the year ended December 31, 2002 and the recognition
provisions for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. There were no impacts of the
adoption of this statement.

In December 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46R,
“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB 51”
(“FIN 46R”). FIN 46R provides guidance on the identification of entities for
which control is achieved through means other than through voting rights
(“variable interest entities”) and on the determination of when such entities
are required to be included in the consolidated financial statements of the
business enterprise that holds an interest in the variable interest entity.
This new model for consolidation applies to



an entity in which either (1) the equity investors do not have a
controlling financial interest or (2) the equity investment at risk is
insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without receiving additional
subordinated financial support from other parties. In addition, FIN 46R
requires additional related disclosures. Certain disclosure provisions of FIN
46R apply to all financial statements issued after January 31, 2003, the
consolidation provisions apply to variable interest entities created after
January 31, 2003 and to variable interest entities in which an enterprise
obtains an interest after that date, and the remaining provisions, with the
exception of interest in special purpose entities, apply at the end of the
first fiscal year or interim period ending after March 15, 2004 to variable
interest entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it
acquired before February 1, 2003. Application for interest in special purpose
entities is required for periods after December 15, 2003. The adoption of FIN
46R had no material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In December 2003, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.
104, “Revenue Recognition,” (“SAB No.104”) which replaces SAB No. 101. This
staff accounting bulletin revises or rescinds portions of the interpretative
guidance included in Topic 13 of the codification of staff accounting bulletins
in order to make this interpretive guidance consistent with current
authoritative accounting and auditing guidance and SEC rules and regulations.
The principal revisions relate to the rescission of material no longer
necessary because of private sector developments in U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. This staff accounting bulletin also rescinds the Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements Frequently Asked Questions and Answers
document issued in conjunction with Topic 13. Selected portions of that
document have been incorporated into Topic 13. SAB No. 104 also rescinds the
accounting guidance in SAB No. 101 related to multiple-element arrangements as
this guidance has been superseded as a result of the issuance of EITF 00-21.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the
consolidated financial statements.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We fund the capital needs of our business through cash generated from
operations. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, we had $220.7 million and $147.2
million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, respectively, and
working capital of $269.9 million and $217.7 million, respectively. As of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, we also had long-term investments primarily in
municipal bonds of $35.1 million and $15.6 million, respectively. As of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 we had total cash, short-term investments and
long-term investments of $255.8 million and $162.8 million, respectively.

Effective January 1, 2003, we entered into a workers’ compensation
insurance policy where we retain the first $0.25 million in claim liability per
incident and up to specific limits, based on payroll, in claim liability in the
aggregate. We renewed this workers’ compensation policy effective January 1,
2004. We are liable for up to $1.4 million in aggregate claim liability for

2003 and estimate that we will be liable for up to $2.0 million for 2004. We
have recorded our estimated claim liability as of December 31, 2003 based on
claims incurred and the estimated ultimate cost to settle the claims. The
insurance company administers and pays these claims and we reimburse the
insurance company for our portion of these claims. The insurance company also
provides insurance for claims above the individual occurrence and aggregate
limits. We issued a $0.5 million letter of credit to the insurance company as
security for these claims as of December 31, 2003 and agreed to issue an
additional $0.6 million letter of credit for 2004.

We
purchased approximately $16.9 million in fixed assets and $2.7 million
in other long-term assets during the year ended December 31, 2003, principally
related to the CAG segment. Our total capital budget for 2004 is approximately
$23.0 million. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenue for
2004 is expected to be consistent with 2003 levels. Under certain supply
agreements with suppliers of veterinary instruments, slides for our VetTest®
instruments and certain raw materials, at December 31, 2003 we had aggregate
commitments to purchase approximately $68.3 million of products in 2004.

Cash provided by operating activities was $117.2 million during 2003.
Cash of $16.6 million was provided by an increase in accruals, defined as
accrued expenses, accrued employee compensation and related expenses, accrued
taxes and accrued marketing and customer programs, attributable primarily to
increased liabilities for taxes, compensation and related liabilities and
warranty expense. Cash of $13.0 million was generated from the income tax
benefit obtained due to the exercise of non-qualified stock options and
disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options. Cash of $9.6 million
was generated by an increase to accounts payable due primarily to the timing of
quarterly shipments of VetTest slides from Ortho. The non-cash write down of
manufacturing equipment



reduced our net income by $7.4 million and therefore is added back to cash
generated from operations. Cash of $5.6 million was used by an increase in
accounts receivable due to high sales volume.

During 1999 and 2000, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up
to 10,000,000 shares of our common stock in the open market or in negotiated
transactions. In October 2003, the Board authorized the purchase of an
additional 2,000,000 shares of common stock. During 2003, we repurchased
approximately 927,000 shares of our common stock for $36.2 million. As of
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, approximately 9,541,000, 8,614,000 and
7,614,000 cumulative shares, respectively, had been repurchased under these
programs. During 2003, the Company received approximately 133,000 shares of
stock, which were owned by the holder for greater than six months, in payment
for the exercise price of stock options. The shares of stock had a fair market
value of $4.9 million. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.

We are required to make the following payments in the years below:

(in thousands)

Total


2005-2006

2007-2008

After 2008

Minimum royalty payments

$

8,848

$


$

1,469

$

2,454

$

4,550

Operating leases

41,113

5,707

8,879

6,920

19,607

Unconditional purchase obligations (1)

192,229

68,329

64,900

41,300

17,700

Total contractual cash obligations

$

242,190

$

74,411

$

75,248

$

50,674

$

41,857

(1)

Of this amount, $170.4 million represents our minimum purchase obligation
under our VetTest® slide supply agreement with Ortho.

We believe that current cash, short-term investments, long-term
investments, and funds generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our
operations and capital purchase requirements.

FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS

The future operating results of IDEXX involve a number of risks and
uncertainties. Actual events or results may differ materially from those
discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to such
differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as
well as those discussed elsewhere in this report.

IDEXX’s Future Growth Depends on Several Factors

The future success of our business depends upon our ability to
successfully implement various strategies, including:



IDEXX’s Markets Are Competitive and Subject to Rapid and Substantial
Technological Change

We face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our
products and services. We expect that future competition will become even more
intense, and that we will have to compete with changing and improving
technologies. Some of our competitors and potential competitors, including
large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater capital,
manufacturing, marketing and research and development resources than we do.

IDEXX’s Products and Services Are Subject to Various Government
Regulations

In the U.S., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by
agencies such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”), U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”). Most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our
canine, feline, poultry and livestock tests, must be approved by the USDA prior
to sale. Our water testing products must be approved by the EPA before they
may be used by customers in the U.S. as a part of a water quality monitoring
program required by the EPA. Our pharmaceutical and dairy testing products
require approval by the FDA. The manufacture and sale of our products are
subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. Any failure to comply with
legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our
products in the U.S. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions
against us or removals of our products from the market, which could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.

We have entered into an agreement with the FDA under which we have agreed,
among other things, to perform specified lot release and stability testing of
our SNAP® Beta-lactam dairy testing products and to provide related data to
the FDA. If the FDA were to determine that one or more lots of product failed
to meet applicable criteria for product performance or stability, the FDA could
take various actions, including requiring us to recall products or restricting
our ability to sell these products. Sales of dairy antibiotic residue testing
products were $16.1 million in 2003.

Commercialization of animal health pharmaceuticals in the U.S. requires
prior approval by the FDA. To obtain such approvals we are required to submit
substantial clinical, manufacturing and other data to the FDA. Regulatory
approval for products submitted to the FDA may take several years and following
approval, the FDA continues to regulate all aspects of the manufacture,
labeling, storage, record keeping and promotion of pharmaceutical products. We
have two animal pharmaceutical products in registration with the FDA, including
a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory for the treatment of lameness in horses and an
injectible antibiotic for cats. Failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, FDA
approval for these products would have a negative impact on our future growth.

Changes in Veterinary Medical Practices Could Negatively Affect Operating
Results

We believe that more than half of all veterinary diagnostic testing occurs
in laboratories. Although we have a significant laboratory business, our
in-clinic testing business is more material to our results of operations. If
testing by companion animal veterinarians generally were to shift towards
increased laboratory testing and away from in-clinic testing, this shift could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

The market for diagnostic tests could be negatively impacted by the
introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the
diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services.
Eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also
could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. Such a
decline could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations.

IDEXX’s Success Is Heavily Dependent Upon Its Proprietary Technologies

We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright
law to protect our proprietary rights. If we do not have adequate protection of
our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who develop
substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us.

We cannot assure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents
issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or
licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar
technologies. Even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the
time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be
substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.



In addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new
competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent
rights.

In the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe
third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. Patent
litigation is complex and expensive and the outcome of patent litigation can be
difficult to predict. We cannot assure that we will win a patent litigation
case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. If we lose, we may
be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay
damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. Any such adverse
result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

IDEXX Purchases Materials for Its Products from a Limited Number of
Sources

We currently purchase certain products and materials from single sources
or a limited number of sources. Some of the products that we purchase from
these sources are proprietary, and therefore may not be available from other
sources. These products include our VetTest chemistry and QBC® VetAutoread™
hematology analyzers and related consumables, computed radiography systems,
active ingredients for pharmaceutical products, including NAVIGATOR®, and
certain components of our SNAP® rapid assay devices, water testing products,
and LaserCyte® systems. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of
these products in the future, then we could face cost increases or reductions
or delays in product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations.

The supplier of our computed radiography systems has informed us that it
believes we are in breach of our supply agreement. We believe we have complied
fully with that agreement and we have filed suit against that supplier seeking
declaratory judgment from the court that we are not in breach of the agreement,
an order from the court compelling the supplier to honor our agreement and
damages for certain breaches of the agreement by the supplier. The supplier
has asserted counter-claims against us alleging, among other things, breaches
of implied covenants in the contract. We believe we have strong defenses to
these counter-claims and intend to contest them vigorously. An adverse result
in this litigation could result in loss of supply of our computed radiography
instruments and/or a requirement that we pay damages to the supplier. Revenue
from this product line was $1.3 million in 2003.

The slides sold for use in our VetTest® instruments are purchased under
an agreement with Ortho at fixed prices. Under this agreement we are required
to purchase a minimum of $170.4 million of slides through 2010. To the extent
that slides purchased under the contract exceed demand for the slides, we may
incur losses in the future under this agreement. To the extent that we are
unable to maintain current pricing levels on sales of slides to our customers,
our profits on slide sales would decline because we purchase slides at fixed
prices.

IDEXX’s Biologic Products are Complex and Difficult to Manufacture

Many of our products are biologics, which are products that are comprised
of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera.
Manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. Unlike products that rely on
chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult
to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological materials.
Difficulty in characterizing biological materials limits the precision of
specifications for these materials, which creates greater risk in the
manufacturing process. We attempt to mitigate risk associated with the
manufacture of biologics by utilizing multiple vendors, manufacturing some of
these materials ourselves and maintaining substantial inventories of materials
that have demonstrated the appropriate characteristics. However, there can be
no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological
materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield
finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. Our
inability to obtain necessary biological materials or to manufacture
successfully biologic products that incorporate such materials would have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.

IDEXX’s Sales Are Dependent on Distributor Purchasing Patterns

We sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid
assays and instrument consumables sold in the U.S., through distributors.
Because significant product sales are made to a limited number of customers,
unanticipated changes in the timing and size of distributor purchases can have
a negative effect on quarterly results.



Our financial performance, therefore, is subject to an unexpected downturn
in product demand and may be unpredictable.

Inventories of Pharmaceutical Products Under Development May Not Be Usable

While our pharmaceutical products are under development, we may carry
related active ingredients, other raw materials and finished goods as assets on
our balance sheet when recovery of the asset value from future sales is deemed
probable. To the extent that these inventories become unusable due to
unanticipated delays in obtaining FDA approval for these products, or to our
failure to obtain such approvals, we may be required to write down those
inventories, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.

International Revenue Accounts for a Significant Portion of IDEXX’s Total
Revenue

Various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our
international sales. Possible risks include fluctuations in the value of
foreign currencies, disruptions in transportation of our products, the
differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in
building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and quotas, and
unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. Prices
that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge
for the same products in the U.S. due to competitive, market or other factors.
As a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period
could have a material impact on our results for that period.

ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our financial market risk consists primarily of foreign currency exchange
rate risk. We operate subsidiaries in 13 foreign countries and transact
business in local currencies. We attempt to hedge the majority of our cash
flow on intercompany sales to minimize foreign currency exposure. See Note
2(m) to our consolidated financial statements.

The primary purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is to
protect against the volatility associated with foreign currency transactions.
Corporate policy prescribes the range of allowable hedging activity. We
primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with a duration of less than 12
months. Gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of foreign currency from
commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred in prepaid expenses or
accruals and are included in the basis of the underlying transaction. Our
hedging strategy is consistent with prior periods. Our hedging strategy
provides that we employ the full amount of our hedges for the succeeding year
at the conclusion of our budgeting process for that year, which is complete by
the end of the preceding year. Quarterly, we enter into contracts to hedge
incremental portions of anticipated foreign currency transactions for the
following twelve months. Accordingly, our risk with respect to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuations may vary throughout each annual cycle. As of
December 31, 2003, the Company had $3.0 million in unrealized losses on foreign
exchange contracts designated as hedges recorded in other comprehensive income,
which is net of $1.4 million in taxes.

Our currency rate exposure at December 31, 2003 consisted of local
currency revenues and expenses, the impact of hedge contracts and balances
denominated in a currency other than the Company’s or its subsidiaries’
functional currency. Based on our overall currency rate exposure excluding
unrealized losses of $4.4 million at December 31, 2003 and $2.6 million at
December 31, 2002, a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign
currencies would reduce operating income by approximately $2.2 million for
2004. A 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2002 would have
reduced operating income for 2003 by approximately $2.4 million. A 10%
weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies at December 31,
2003 would increase operating income by approximately $2.2 million in 2004. A
10% weakening of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2002 would have increased
operating income by approximately $2.4 million in 2003. As of December 31,
2003 a 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies,
excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place, would reduce
operating income by approximately $8.1 million in 2004 ,
compared to $7.4 million in 2003 and the effects of a 10% weakening of U.S. dollar relative to
foreign currencies, excluding the impact of hedge contracts currently in place,
would increase operating income by approximately $8.1 million in 2004 compared
to $7.4 million in 2003.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The response to this item is submitted as a separate section of this report commencing on page F-1.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.

The Company’s
management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as
of December 31, 2003. Based on this evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2003,
the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were (1) designed to ensure
that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report was being prepared and (2) effective, in that they
provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the
Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in the SEC’s rules and forms.

(b)  Changes in Internal Controls.

No change in the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
under the Exchange Act) occurred during the year ended December 31, 2003 that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

PART III.

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this Item is omitted from this Annual Report
on Form 10-K and, pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference from the sections
entitled “Board of Directors” and “Election of Directors” in the Company’s
definitive proxy statement with respect to its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by
this report.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is omitted from this Annual Report
on Form 10-K and, pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled
“Executive Compensation and Related Information” in the Company’s definitive
proxy statement with respect to its 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which
proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this report.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is omitted from this Annual Report
on Form 10-K and, pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled
“Ownership of Common Stock by Directors and Officers” in the Company’s
definitive proxy statement with respect to its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by
this report.



ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is omitted from this Annual Report
on Form 10-K and, pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled
“Executive Compensation and Related Information — Employment Agreements” in the
Company’s definitive proxy statement with respect to its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by
this report.

ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this Item is omitted from this Annual Report
on Form 10-K and, pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, is incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled
“Ratification of Independent Auditors — Independent Auditors’ Fees” in the
Company’s definitive proxy statement with respect to its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by
this report.

PART IV.

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)

(1) and (2)

The financial statements set forth in the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and the
Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedule are filed as a part
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K commencing on
page F-1.

(b)

Reports on
Form 8-K

On October 20, 2003, the Company furnished a
Current Report on Form 8-K, under Item 12,
containing a copy of its earnings release for the
quarter ended September 30, 2003.

(a)(3)

and (c)

The exhibits in the Exhibit Index immediately
preceding the exhibits are filed as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized:

IDEXX Laboratories, Inc.

By: /s/ Jonathan W. Ayers

Jonathan W. Ayers

President and Chief Executive Officer

March 3, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Description

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended (filed as Exhibit No. 3.1 to
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 0-19271, and
incorporated herein by reference).

3.2

Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company (filed as Exhibit No. 3.2 to Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000, File No. 0-19271, and incorporated herein by
reference).

4.1

Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of January 22, 2001, between the Company and
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company as Rights Agent, which includes as Exhibit A the Form of
Certificate of Designations, as Exhibit B the Form of Rights Certificate, and as Exhibit C the
Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit No. 1 to Amendment No. 2 to
Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A dated March 14, 2001, File No. 0-19271, and incorporated
herein by reference).

4.2

Instruments with respect to other long-term debt of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries
are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K since the total amount authorized
under each such omitted instrument does not exceed 10 percent of the total assets of the Company
and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Company hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any
such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

10.1

1991 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended (filed as Exhibit No. 10.2 to Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, File No. 0-19271 (“2001 Form 10-K”), and
incorporated herein by reference).

10.2

1991 Director Option Plan of the Company, as amended (filed as Exhibit No. 10.4 to Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001, File No. 0-19271 (“June 2001 10-Q”), and
incorporated herein by reference).

10.3

1997 Director Option Plan of the Company, as amended, with the form of option agreement granted
thereunder attached thereto (filed as Exhibit No. 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 1997, File No. 0-19271, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.4

2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit No. 10.3 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2003, File No. 0-19271 (“June 2003 10-Q”) and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.5

1997 International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Appendix C to Definitive Proxy
Statement filed April 24, 1997, File No. 0-19271 (“April 1997 Proxy”), and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.6

1999 Director Stock Plan of the Company (filed as Exhibit No. 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999, File No. 0-19271, and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.7*

U.S. Supply Agreement, effective as of October 16, 2003, between the Company and Ortho-Clinical
Diagnostics, Inc. (“Ortho”) (filed herewith).

10.8*

European Supply Agreement, effective as of October 17, 2003, between the Company and Ortho (filed
herewith).

10.9

1998 Stock Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended (filed as Exhibit No. 10.1 to Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002, File No. 0-19271, and incorporated
herein by reference).

10.10

2000 Director Option Plan of the Company (filed as Exhibit No. 10.5 to June 2001 10-Q, and
incorporated herein by reference).

10.11

Employment Agreement dated January 22, 2002 between the Company and Jonathan W. Ayers (filed as
Exhibit No. 10.13 to 2001 Form 10-K, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.12

Executive Employment Agreement dated January 28, 2002 between the Company and Jonathan W. Ayers
(filed as Exhibit No. 10.14 to 2001 Form 10-K, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.13

Executive Employment Agreement dated September 8, 2003 between the Company and William C. Wallen
(filed herewith).

10.14

Letter Agreement dated August 12, 2003 between the Company and William C. Wallen (filed herewith).


Exhibit No.

Description

10.15

Form of Executive Employment Agreement dated as of May 23, 2001
between the Company and each of Robert S. Hulsy, Merilee Raines,
Quentin Tonelli, S. Sam Fratoni and Conan R. Deady (filed as
Exhibit No. 10.6 to June 2001 10-Q, and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.16

Amendment, Release and Settlement Agreement dated as of September
12, 2002 among the Company, IDEXX Europe B.V., and Ortho-Clinical
Diagnostics, Inc. (filed as Exhibit No. 10.1 to Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2002, File No.
0-19271, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.17

Director Deferred Compensation Plan (filed as Exhibit No. 10.1 to
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2003,
File No. 0-19271 (“June 2003 10-Q”), and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.18

2003 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (filed as Exhibit No. 10.2 to
June 2003 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference).

10.19

1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended (filed as Exhibit No.
10.3 to June 2003 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference).

10.20

Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (filed as Exhibit No. 10.4 to
June 2003 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference).


Subsidiaries of the Company (filed herewith).

23.1

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (filed herewith).

23.2

Notice Regarding Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP (filed herewith).

31.1

Certification by Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (filed
herewith).

31.2

Certification by Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (filed herewith).

32.1

Certification by Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith).

32.2

Certification by Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed herewith).

*

Confidential treatment requested as to certain portions.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT

SCHEDULE

PAGE

*

Reports of Independent Auditors

F-2

*

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and

F-4

*

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and
2001.

F-5

*

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the Years Ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001.

F-6

*

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and
2001.

F-7

*

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements

F-8

*

Schedule II

Valuation and Qualifying
Accounts

F-32

F-1


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of IDEXX Laboratories, Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our
opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein as
of and for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements
and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted
our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion. The consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2001, prior to
the revisions described in Notes 4 and 17, were audited by other independent accountants who have ceased operations. Those
independent accountants expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements and financial
statement schedule in their report dated January 24, 2002.

As discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2002, the Company changed its method of accounting for goodwill upon
adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142,
“

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

”

As discussed above, the consolidated financial statements of the Company
for the year ended December 31, 2001 were audited by other
independent accountants who have ceased operations. As described in Note 4,
these consolidated financial statements have been restated to include the
transitional disclosures required by SFAS No. 142, “

Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets

,” which was adopted by the Company as of January 1, 2002. As
described in Note 17, these consolidated financial statements have also been
restated to reflect the change in composition of the Company’s reportable
segments. We audited the transitional disclosures for 2001 described
in Note 4 and the adjustments described in Note 17 that were applied to
restate the 2001 consolidated financial statements. In our opinion,
the transitional disclosures are appropriate and the adjustments are
appropriate and have been properly
applied. However, we were not engaged to audit, review or apply any procedures
to the 2001 consolidated financial statements of the Company other than with
respect to such adjustments and transitional disclosures and, accordingly, we
do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on the 2001
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.

/s/PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

January 23, 2004

F-2


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of IDEXX Laboratories, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of IDEXX
Laboratories, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2000 and 2001, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2001. These consolidated financial statements and the
schedule referred to below are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of IDEXX
Laboratories, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 2001, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2001, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in the
index to consolidated financial statements is presented for purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and is not part
of the basic consolidated financial statements. The schedule has been
subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic
consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states, in all
material respects, the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.

/s/ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (1)

Boston, Massachusetts

January 24, 2002

(1)

This is a copy of the audit report previously issued by Arthur Andersen
LLP in connection with IDEXX Laboratories, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form
10-K filing for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001. The inclusion of
this previously issued Arthur Andersen LLP report is pursuant to the
“Temporary Final Rule and Final Rule Requirements for Arthur Andersen LLP
Auditing Clients,” issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in
March 2002. Note that the previously issued Arthur Andersen LLP report
includes references to certain fiscal years that are not required to be
presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2003. This audit report has not been
reissued by Arthur Andersen LLP in connection with the filing of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. As described in Note 4, the Company has
presented the transitional disclosures for 2001 required by SFAS No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Also as described in Note 17, the
2001 financial statements have been restated to reflect the change in
composition of the Company’s reportable segments. The Arthur Andersen LLP
report does not extend to any of these changes to the 2001 consolidated
financial statements. The transitional disclosures and adjustments to the
2001 consolidated financial statements referred to in Notes 4 and 17 were
reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as stated in their report
appearing herein.

F-3


IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

F-4


IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

F-5


IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

Common Stock

Accumulated

Additional

Deferred

Other

Total

Number of

$ 0.10

Paid-in

Equity-based

Retained

Comprehensive

Treasury

Stockholders’

Shares

Par Value

Capital

Compensation

Earnings

Income (Loss)

Stock

Equity

Balance January 1, 2001

40,255

$

4,025

$

296,914

$

—

$

100,251

$

(4,964

)

$

(134,479

)

$

261,747

Purchase of treasury stock

—

—

—

—

—

—

(12,986

)

(12,986

)

Exercise of stock options (including tax benefit)



16,980

—

—

—

—

17,079

Shares issued in connection with Blue Ridge
acquisition



(11

)

—

—

—

—

—

Comprehensive income (loss):

Net income

—

—

—

—

37,620

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on investments,
net of tax of $29

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

Unrealized loss on forward
exchange contracts, net of tax of $174

—

—

—

—

—

(266

)

—

—

Translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

(1,508

)

—

—

Total comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

35,890

Balance December 31, 2001

41,354

4,135

313,883

—

137,871

(6,694

)

(147,465

)

301,730

Purchase of treasury stock

—

—

—

—

—

—

(29,830

)

(29,830

)

Exercise of stock options (including tax benefit)



20,467

—

—

—

(1,062

)

19,501

Exercise of warrants



(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

Comprehensive income (loss):

Net income

—

—

—

—

45,389

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on investments,
net of tax of $70

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

Unrealized loss on forward
exchange contracts, net of tax of $699

—

—

—

—

—

(1,428

)

—

—

Translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

5,504

—

—

Total comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

49,572

Balance December 31, 2002

42,331

4,233

334,348

—

183,260

(2,511

)

(178,357

)

340,973

Purchase of treasury stock

—

—

—

—

—

—

(36,195

)

(36,195

)

Exercise of stock options (including tax benefit)

1,934


48,914

—

—

—

(4,897

)

44,210

Exercise of warrants



(13

)

—

—

—

—

—

Issuance of deferred stock units



Comprehensive income (loss):

Net income

—

—

—

—

57,090

—

—

—

Unrealized loss on investments,
net of tax of
$86

—

—

—

—

—

(131

)

—

—

Unrealized loss on forward
exchange contracts, net of tax of
$523

—

—

—

—

—

(1,334

)

—

—

Translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

8,541

—

—

Total comprehensive income

64,166

Balance December 31, 2003

44,390

$

4,439

$

383,249

$


$

240,350

$

4,565

$

(219,449

)

$

413,292

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

F-6


IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

F-7


IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 NATURE OF BUSINESS

IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (the “Company”) develops, manufactures and
distributes products and provides services for the veterinary and the food and
water testing markets. The Company operates primarily through three business
segments: products and services for the veterinary market, which is referred to
as the Companion Animal Group (“CAG”), water quality products (“Water”) and
products and services for production animal health and dairy quality, which is
referred to as the Food Diagnostics Group (“FDG”). See Note 17. The
Company’s products and services are sold worldwide.

NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(a) Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and all other entities in which the
Company has a variable interest and is determined to be the primary
beneficiary. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.

(b) Estimates

The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure
of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the Company
evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer programs and
incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible
assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, restructuring and contingencies.
The Company accrues contingent liabilities when it is probable that future
expenditures will be made and such expenditures can reasonably be estimated.
The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values
of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions.

(c) Inventories

Inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the
lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. The Company writes down
inventory for estimated obsolescence when warranted by estimates of future
demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable
than those estimated by management, additional inventory write-downs may be
required, which would have a negative effect on results of operations. Certain
major components of inventory are discussed in more detail below.

Nitazoxanide

. The Company’s nitazoxanide product for the treatment of
equine protozoal myeloencephalitis (“EPM”) was approved by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration (“FDA”) in November 2003. The Company’s inventories as of
December 31, 2003 included $8.6 million of inventory associated with the
nitazoxanide product, consisting of $8.3 million of active ingredient and $0.3
million of finished goods. $8.0 million of active ingredient included in
inventory at December 31, 2003 will expire in 2005 and the remainder will
expire in 2006 and 2007. Upon use of unexpired active ingredient in the
manufacture of finished goods, the active ingredient shelf life is no longer
relevant. The shelf life of the finished goods is 48 months from the date of
manufacture, regardless of the age of the active ingredient used to manufacture
the finished goods.

In November 2003 the Company entered into an agreement with the supplier
of the active ingredient to exchange approximately 66% of its active ingredient
for active ingredient that will expire in 2008 or later. As a result of the
product approval by the FDA and the inventory exchange, we believe that we will
manufacture our nitazoxanide inventory into finished goods and sell those
finished goods prior to product expiration.

F-8


The Company evaluates its nitazoxanide inventory on a quarterly basis for
realizability. During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, we incurred
no further write-downs for this inventory due to expected product expiration.
The Company’s quarterly evaluation is based upon the active ingredient raw
materials and finished goods expiration dates described and assumptions
regarding sales volumes that we expect to achieve.

VetTest® Chemistry Slides

. The Company’s inventories as of December 31,
2003 included $34.8 million of slides used in its VetTest® chemistry
instruments. Most of the slides have a shelf life of 24 months at the date of
manufacture. The average remaining shelf life at December 31, 2003 was 18.1
months. In addition, the Company is required to purchase a minimum of $170.4
million of slides from Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc (“Ortho”) through
December 31, 2010.

During the quarter ended September 30, 2002, the Company amended the
contract with Ortho to reduce its minimum purchase commitment for both 2002 and
the life of the contract by 30 million slides (or approximately $17.7 million)
in consideration for the Company’s agreement to forego approximately $2.0
million of certain volume rebates on slides purchased in 2002. As a result of
this amendment, the Company reversed the previously established contract loss
reserve of $0.7 million, of which $0.4 million was provided in 2002. During
the quarter ended December 31, 2003, the Company entered into a new contract
with Ortho which extended the term of the supply agreement through 2018 and
left the contract minimum purchase commitments unchanged. As a result of the
current and projected demand for VetTest ® slides, the Company’s commitment
to develop a next generation chemistry analyzer that will utilize these slides
and the ratable decrease in annual slide purchases from Ortho through 2010, the
Company believes that it will not incur a loss under the contract.

LaserCyte® Hematology Instrument

. As of December 31, 2003, the
Company’s inventories included $7.2 million of component parts and finished
goods associated with its LaserCyte® hematology instrument, which the Company
began shipping to customers in the fourth quarter of 2002. In addition, the
Company has firm purchase commitments for an additional $3.5 million.

The components of inventories are as follows

(in thousands)

:

December 31,



Raw
materials

$

16,732

$

22,547

Work-in-process

7,615

5,769

Finished
goods

50,986

46,770

$

75,333

$

75,086

(d) Property and Equipment

The Company records property and equipment at cost net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization. When an item is sold or retired, the cost and
related accumulated depreciation is relieved, and the resulting gain or loss,
if any, is recognized in the statement of operations. The Company provides for
depreciation and amortization using the declining-balance and straight-line
methods by charges to operations in amounts that allocate the cost of property
and equipment over their estimated useful lives as follows:

Estimated

Asset Classification

Useful Life

Leasehold improvements

Shorter of life of lease or useful life

Machinery and equipment

3-5 years

Office furniture and
equipment

3-7 years

Buildings

40 years

The Company recorded depreciation expense of $14.5 million, $15.2 million
and $12.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

F-9


(e) Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The Company provides for amortization using the straight-line method by
charges to operations in amounts that allocate the intangible assets over their
estimated useful lives as follows:

Estimated

Asset Classification

Useful Life

Patents

15 years

Noncompete agreements

5-10 years

Customer lists

5 years

Licenses

5-10 years

Rental instruments sold under recourse

3 years

Other

5-10 years

The Company assesses the impairment of identifiable intangibles and
long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors the Company considers important
that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, the
following:

The Company continually assesses the realizability of these assets in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS No.
144”). If an impairment review is triggered, the Company evaluates the
carrying value of long-lived assets by determining if impairment exists based
on estimated undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining useful life of
the assets and comparing that value to the carrying value of the assets. If the
carrying value of the asset is greater than the estimated future cash flows,
the asset is written down to its estimated fair value. In determining expected
future cash flows, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which cash flows
are identifiable and independent of cash flows from other asset groups. The
cash flow estimates that are used contain management’s best estimates, using
appropriate and customary assumptions and projections at the time.

(f) Warranty Reserves

The Company provides for the estimated cost of product warranties at the
time revenue is recognized. The Company’s actual warranty obligation is
affected by product failure rates and service costs incurred in correcting a
product failure. Should actual product failure rates or service costs differ
from management’s estimates, which are based on historical data and engineering
estimates where applicable, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would
be required. The increase in the warranty reserve for the year ended December
31, 2003 is due primarily to the warranty provision on increased sales of
LaserCyte® instruments. Below is a summary of changes in accrued warranty
reserve for products sold to customers for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2002, respectively

(in thousands)

:

For the Years Ended December 31,



Balance beginning of
year

$


$


Provision for
warranty
expense

3,775


Provision for
change in estimate
of prior warranty
expense


(284

)

Settlement of
warranty
liability

(662

)

(167

)

Balance end of
year

3,694


Long-term
portion

1,053


Current portion of warranty
reserves

$

2,641

$


F-10


(g) Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes under SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for
Income Taxes”. This statement requires that the Company recognize a current
tax liability or asset for current taxes payable or refundable, respectively;
and a deferred tax liability or asset, as the case may be, for the estimated
future tax effects of temporary differences between book and tax treatment of
assets and liabilities and carryforwards to the extent they are realizable. We
record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount
that is more likely than not to be realized. While we consider future taxable
income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing
the need for a valuation allowance, in the event we were to determine that we
would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the
net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase
income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we
determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred
tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be
charged to income in the period such determination was made. See Note 6.

(h) Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue when four criteria are met. These include
(i) persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred
or services have been rendered, (iii) the seller’s price is fixed and
determinable, and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.

When instruments are sold together with extended maintenance agreements,
the Company allocates revenue to the extended maintenance agreement under EITF
00-21, “Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.”
Accordingly the total consideration received is allocated to the elements based
on their relative fair values, which is determined by amounts charged
separately for the delivered and undelivered elements to other customers. The
deferred revenue related to the extended maintenance agreements is recognized
ratably over the maintenance period. The delivered elements are recognized as
revenue when appropriate under the policies described above. Shipping costs
reimbursed by the customer are included in revenue.

The Company records estimated reductions to revenue in connection with
customer programs and incentive offerings, which may give customers future
rights such as free or discounted goods or services or trade-in rights. The
Company estimates these reductions based on its experience with similar
customer programs in prior years. Revenue reductions are finalized on a
quarterly basis for most programs upon issuance of credits or free or
discounted products. For the SNAP-Up-the-Savings™ program, estimates of
future customer credits are revised quarterly and finalized annually in the
third quarter of each year upon the issuance of credits to customers. For the

F-11


Company’s Practice Developer™ volume discount program, the Company has
reduced revenue assuming all points granted will result in future credits
because the Company does not have sufficient experience with this program to
estimate customer point forfeitures.

The Company recognizes revenue only in those situations where collection
from the customer is reasonably assured. The Company maintains allowances for
doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its
customers to make required payments. The Company bases its estimates on
detailed analysis of specific client situations and percentage of its accounts
receivable by aging category. If the financial condition of the Company’s
customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to
make payment, additional allowances may be required.

(i) Research and Development and Software Development Costs

Research and Development costs are expensed as incurred. In accordance
with SFAS No. 86, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold,
Leased or Otherwise Marketed” (“SFAS No. 86”), the Company evaluates its
software research and development costs for capitalization after the
technological feasibility of software and products containing software has been
established. No software development costs have been capitalized by the Company
because costs eligible for capitalization under SFAS No. 86 have been
insignificant. Research and development expenses consist of salaries, employee
benefits, materials and consulting costs.

(j) Advertising and Promotion Costs

The Company expenses advertising costs to sales and marketing expense in
the period they are incurred.

(k) Stock-Based Compensation

The Company measures compensation related to employee stock-based
compensation plans in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (“APB”)
Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB No. 25”), and
elects to disclose the pro forma impact of accounting for stock-based
compensation plans under the provisions of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS No. 123”) and SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation – Transition and Disclosure – An Amendment of FASB No.
123” (“SFAS No. 148”). Accordingly, no SFAS No. 123-based employee
compensation cost has been recognized for these plans.

Had compensation cost for the Company’s stock-based compensation and
employee stock purchase plans been determined consistent with the provisions of
SFAS No. 123, the Company’s net income and net income per common and common
equivalent share would have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

:

For the Years Ended December 31,




Net income:

As
reported

$

57,090

$

45,389

$

37,620

APB No. 25 compensation recorded,
net of tax

—

1,116

—

Pro forma stock-based employee
compensation, net of
tax

(7,999

)

(8,242

)

(5,406

)

(7,999

)

(7,126

)

(5,406

)

Pro forma net
income

$

49,091

$

38,263

$

32,214

Net income per share:

Basic: as
reported

$

1.67

$

1.35

$

1.13

Basic: pro
forma

1.43

1.14

0.97

Diluted: as
reported

1.59

1.30

1.09

Diluted: pro
forma

1.37

1.09

0.93

See Note 12 for discussion of the
Company’s stock-based compensation plans.

F-12


(l) Foreign Currency Translation

Assets and liabilities of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are
translated using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date.
Revenue and expense accounts are translated using a weighted average of
exchange rates in effect during the period. Cumulative translation gains and
losses are shown in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as a separate
component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Exchange gains and
losses arising from transactions denominated in foreign currencies other than a
subsidiary’s functional currency are included in current operations. Included
in general and administrative expenses are foreign currency translation gains
of $1.0 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002, respectively and a foreign currency translation loss of $0.6 million for
the year ended December 31, 2001.

(m) Derivative Instruments and Hedging

The Company follows SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities” as amended by SFAS No. 137, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities — Deferral of the Effective Date of SFAS No.
133,” and SFAS No. 138, “Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities — An Amendment of SFAS No. 133.” (“SFAS No. 133, As
Amended”). SFAS No. 133 As Amended requires that all derivatives, including
forward currency exchange contracts, be recognized on the balance sheet at fair
value. Derivatives that are not hedges must be recorded at fair value through
earnings. If a derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge,
changes in the fair value of the derivative are either offset against the
change in fair value of the hedged item through earnings or recognized in other
comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The
Company immediately records in earnings the extent to which a hedge is not
effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value.

The Company enters into foreign currency exchange contracts of its
anticipated intercompany inventory purchases for the next twelve months in
order to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on these
transactions. The Company’s accounting policies for these contracts are based
on the Company’s designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. The
Company also utilizes some natural hedges to mitigate its transaction and
commitment exposures. The contracts the Company enters into are firm foreign
currency commitments, and, therefore, market gains and losses are deferred
until the contract matures, which is the period when the related obligation is
settled. The Company enters into these exchange contracts with large
multinational financial institutions. The Company does not hold or engage in
transactions involving derivative instruments for purposes other than risk
management. The Company hedges less than the full value of forecasted
intercompany sales and thus no significant ineffectiveness has resulted or been
recorded through the statement of operations. As of December 31, 2003, the
Company recorded $4.4 million in unrealized losses through accumulated other
comprehensive loss from foreign exchange contracts with 2004 expiration dates.
As of December 31, 2002, the Company recorded $2.6 million in unrealized losses
through accumulated other comprehensive loss from foreign exchange contracts
with 2003 expiration dates. The foreign currency contracts, which extend
through December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, consisted of the following

(in thousands)

:

U.S. Dollar Equivalent

Currency Sold



Euro

$

27,674

$

19,308

British Pound

13,798

13,206

Canadian Dollar

10,352

9,380

Australian Dollar

1,440

1,479

Japanese Yen

1,634

2,672

Taiwan Dollar

—


$

54,898

$

46,379

Gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts intended as hedges for
intercompany sales of goods are recorded in cost of sales. Included in cost of
goods sold are foreign exchange losses of $6.7 million and $2.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and foreign exchange gains
of $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001.

F-13


(n) Disclosure of Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Concentration of Risk

Financial instruments consist mainly of cash and cash equivalents,
investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and notes payable.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk are principally cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
accounts receivable. The Company places its investments in highly rated
financial institutions and investment grade money market funds, municipal bonds
and preferred stock. Concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts
receivable is limited to certain customers to whom the Company makes
substantial sales. To reduce risk, the Company routinely assesses the
financial strength of its customers and, as a consequence, believes that its
accounts receivable credit risk exposure is limited. The Company maintains an
allowance for potential credit losses, but historically has not experienced any
significant credit losses related to an individual customer or groups of
customers in any particular industry or geographic area. The carrying amounts
of the Company’s financial instruments approximate fair market value.

Certain parts and finished goods are available only from one source. While
the Company does not anticipate difficulties in obtaining any of the components
used in its products, the loss of any of these sources of supply would have a
material adverse effect on the Company.

(o) Reclassifications

Reclassifications have been made in the consolidated financial statements
to conform to the current year’s presentation.

(p) Comprehensive Income

SFAS No. 130, “Reporting Comprehensive Income,” requires companies to
report all changes in equity during a period, resulting from net income and
transactions or other events and circumstances from non-owner sources, in a
financial statement for the period in which they are recognized. The Company
has chosen to disclose comprehensive income, which encompasses net income,
foreign currency translation adjustments and the difference between the cost
and the fair market value of investments in debt securities and foreign
exchange contracts, in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity. The
Company considers the foreign currency cumulative translation adjustment to be
permanently invested and, therefore, has not provided income taxes on those
amounts. Other comprehensive income (loss) consists of the following as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively,

(in thousands)

:

December 31,



Unrealized gain on investments, net
of tax

$


$


Unrealized loss on forward exchange
contracts, net of tax

(3,028

)

(1,694

)

Cumulative translation
adjustment

7,573

(968

)

$

4,565

$

(2,511

)

(q) New Accounting Standards

In November 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) reached consensus on EITF No. 00-21,
“Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables” (“EITF No.
00-21”). EITF No. 00-21 addresses the accounting treatment for arrangements
that provide for the delivery or performance of multiple products or services
where the delivery of a product, system or performance of services may occur at
different points in time or over different periods of time. EITF No. 00-21
requires the separation of the multiple deliverables that meet certain
requirements into individual units of accounting that are accounted for
separately under the appropriate authoritative accounting literature. EITF No.
00-21 is applicable to revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods
beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company adopted the provisions of EITF No.
00-21 effective January 2003. The adoption of EITF No. 00-21 had no material
impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107
and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34” (“FIN 45”). FIN 45 requires that
a guarantor recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the
fair value of the obligation undertaken by issuing the guarantee.

F-14


FIN 45 also requires additional disclosures to be made by a guarantor in
its interim and annual financial statements about its obligation under certain
guarantees it has issued. The accounting requirements for the initial
recognition of guarantees are applicable on a prospective basis for guarantees
issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are
effective for all guarantees outstanding, regardless of when they were issued
or modified, for financial statements for interim or annual periods ending
after December 15, 2002. We have adopted the additional disclosure provisions
of this statement required for the year ended December 31, 2002 and the
recognition provisions for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. There were no
impacts of the adoption of this statement.

In December 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46R,

“Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB 51”
(“FIN 46R”). FIN 46R provides guidance on the identification of entities for
which control is achieved through means other than through voting rights
(“variable interest entities”) and on the determination of when such entities
are required to be included in the consolidated financial statements of the
business enterprise that holds an interest in the variable interest entity.
This new model for consolidation applies to an entity in which either (1) the
equity investors do not have a controlling financial interest or (2) the equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without
receiving additional subordinated financial support from other parties. In
addition, FIN 46R requires additional related disclosures. Certain disclosure
provisions of FIN 46R apply to all financial statements issued after January
31, 2003, the consolidation provisions apply to variable interest entities
created after January 31, 2003 and to variable interest entities in which an
enterprise obtains an interest after that date, and the remaining provisions,
with the exception of interest in special purpose entities, apply at the end of
the first fiscal year or interim period ending after March 15, 2004 to variable
interest entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it
acquired before February 1, 2003. Application for interest in special purpose
entities is required for periods after December 15, 2003. The adoption of FIN
46R had no material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In December 2003, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.
104, “Revenue Recognition,” (“SAB No. 104”) which replaces SAB No. 101. This
staff accounting bulletin revises or rescinds portions of the interpretative
guidance included in Topic 13 of the codification of staff accounting bulletins
in order to make this interpretive guidance consistent with current
authoritative accounting and auditing guidance and SEC rules and regulations.
The principal revisions relate to the rescission of material no longer
necessary because of private sector developments in U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. This staff accounting bulletin also rescinds the Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements Frequently Asked Questions and Answers
document issued in conjunction with Topic 13. Selected portions of that
document have been incorporated into Topic 13. SAB No. 104 also rescinds the
accounting guidance in SAB No. 101 related to multiple-element arrangements as
this guidance has been superseded as a result of the issuance of EITF 00-21.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the
consolidated financial statements.

NOTE 3 CASH EQUIVALENTS, SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS

Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments purchased with
original maturities of less than three months.

The Company accounts for investments under SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” as available-for-sale.
Investments are recorded at amortized cost and adjusted to fair market value
through other comprehensive income. Gains on sales of investments were not
significant for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.
Short-term investments, which have a cost basis of $33.9 million and $33.3
million as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are investment
securities with maturities of greater than three months, but less than one
year, and consist of the following

(in thousands)

:

December 31,



Municipal
bonds

$

32,988

$

32,403

Preferred
stock

1,000

1,000

$

33,988

$

33,403

F-15


Long-term investments, which have a cost basis of $35.1 million and $15.4
million as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are investment
securities with maturities of greater than one year and less than five years
and consist of the following

(in thousands)

:

December 31,



Municipal
bonds

$

35,082

$

14,572

Preferred
stock

—

1,000

$

35,082

$

15,572

NOTE 4 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS, INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL

Other noncurrent assets are as follows

(in thousands)

:

December 31,

Description



Deferred tax asset

$

4,117

$

2,147

Rental instruments sold under recourse, net

3,505

4,230

Other assets

1,592

1,851

$

9,214

$

8,228

Intangible assets consist of the following

(in thousands)

:

December 31, 2003

December 31, 2002

Accumulated

Accumulated

Cost

Amortization

Cost

Amortization

Existing technologies

$

1,945

$

1,945

$

1,945

$

1,945

Licenses

3,800


1,725


Customer lists





Non-compete agreements

1,500




Patents

3,725

1,359

3,368

1,055

Other





$

11,862

$

5,090

$

8,209

$

4,373

Amortization of intangible assets excluding goodwill was $0.5 million,
$0.6 million and $1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2003 the Company
acquired $2.1 million in licenses, $0.9 million in intangibles related to joint
venture described in Note 14 and $0.4 million related to an acquisition in the
CAG segment.

Amortization expense of intangible assets is expected to be as follows

(in
thousands)

:

Amortization

Expense


$










During the quarter ended September 30, 2002, the Company discontinued
development of a product based on certain technology acquired as part of the
Genera Technologies Limited (“Genera”) acquisition. As a result, the Company
recorded additional amortization of $0.5 million in general and administrative
expense within the Water segment to reflect the impairment of intangible asset.

F-16


Goodwill consists of the following

(in thousands)

:

December 31,



Companion Animal Group Segment:

Veterinary reference
laboratories

$

24,565

$

23,363

Pharmaceuticals

13,745

13,745

Other
goodwill

1,568

1,561

Water Segment:

Water test
products

14,912

13,483

Food Diagnostics Group Segment:

Production Animal Diagnostics



$

54,994

$

52,321

The change in goodwill noted above is a result of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, except as discussed in Note 16. The Company did not
acquire any goodwill nor did it record any impairment charges in 2003.

In 2002, SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS No.
142”), became effective and as a result, the Company ceased to amortize
approximately $50.7 million of goodwill beginning January 1, 2002. The Company
had recorded approximately $5.0 million of amortization on these amounts during
2001 and would have recorded approximately $4.5 million of amortization during
2002 and 2003 if the existing standards had been continued. Under SFAS No. 142,
amortization of goodwill is replaced with periodic tests for impairment. The
Company was required to perform an initial impairment review of its goodwill as
of January 1, 2002, under the transitional provisions of SFAS No. 142. Since
then, the Company has been required to perform annual tests of its goodwill for
impairment or additional tests whenever events or circumstances indicate an
impairment may exist. For its transitional and annual impairment test, the
Company identified its reporting units, allocated assets and liabilities
(including goodwill) to the reporting units and compared the reporting units’
net book value to their estimated fair value. No impairment was identified as a
result of either the transitional or year-end annual reviews. The fair value of
the reporting units was estimated using a discounted cash flow approach. The
cash flow estimates used contain management’s best estimates, using appropriate
and customary assumptions and projections at the time.

Net income and earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2002, and for the year ended December 31, 2001, adjusted to exclude expense
from amortization of goodwill (net of taxes), are as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):

NOTE 5 NOTES PAYABLE

In connection with the acquisition of Genera in August 2000, the Company
issued $8.5 million in notes payable to a former shareholder of Genera, of
which $7.0 million was secured by cash in escrow. The remaining $1.5 million
was unsecured and noninterest bearing, and was discounted at 6% to a fair value
of $1.3 million. In April 2002, the Company repaid $7.5 million, of which $7.0
million was paid from the cash held in escrow. The remaining unsecured portion
of $1.0 million is due in three annual installments, beginning in August 2002.
The noteholder elected to defer the August 2002 payment of $0.5 million until
April 2003. The noteholder elected to defer the August 2003 payment of $0.25
million until 2004. The interest rate on the deferred notes is 3%.

F-17


NOTE 6 INCOME TAXES

Earnings before income taxes for each year were as follows

(in thousands)

:




Domestic

$

58,582

$

49,176

$

46,027

International

24,786

19,594

12,754

$

83,368

$

68,770

$

58,781

The provisions for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001 are comprised of the following

(in thousands

):

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by
applying the statutory federal income tax rate as follows:

December 31,




U.S. federal statutory
rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State income tax, net of federal tax
benefit

2.8

3.2

3.6

International income
taxes

(5.0

)

(3.6

)

(3.0

)

Amortization of nondeductible
assets

—

—

1.6

Nontaxable interest
income

(0.8

)

(0.8

)

(0.8

)

Other,
net

(0.5

)

0.2

(0.4

)

Effective tax
rate

31.5

%

34.0

%

36.0

%

The reduction in the effective tax rate from 2001 to 2002 was due
primarily to the elimination of non-deductible goodwill amortization associated
with the adoption of SFAS No. 142. The reduction in the effective tax rate
from 2002 to 2003 was due primarily to domestic and international tax planning
initiatives, the charge to write-down fixed assets occurring in a high-tax rate
jurisdiction (See Note 16) and revisions to prior year international tax
estimates.

F-18


The components of the net deferred tax asset (liability) included in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets are as follows

(in thousands)

:

At December 31, 2003, the Company had domestic net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $0.2 million available to offset future taxable
income. Net operating loss carryforwards expire at various dates beginning in
2004 through 2014. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains provisions that limit
annual availability of the net operating loss carryforwards due to a more than
50% change in ownership that occurred upon the acquisition of certain
companies.

At December 31, 2003, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards
outside the United States and in state jurisdictions of approximately $52.6
million available to offset future taxable income. These net operating loss
carryforwards expire at various dates beginning in 2004. The Company has
recorded a valuation allowance for the assets because realizability is
uncertain.

At December 31, 2003, unremitted earnings in subsidiaries outside the
United States totaled $60.4 million, on which no United States taxes have been
provided. The Company’s intention is to reinvest these earnings permanently or
to repatriate the earnings only when tax effective to do so. It is not
practical to estimate the amount of additional taxes that might be payable upon
repatriation of earnings from jurisdictions outside the United States; however,
the Company believes that United States foreign tax credits would largely
eliminate any United States taxes or offset any foreign withholding taxes.

NOTE 7 EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the
weighted average number of shares of common stock and deferred stock units
outstanding during the year. The computation of diluted earnings per share is
similar to the computation of basic earnings per share, except that the
denominator is increased for the assumed exercise of dilutive options and other
potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method unless the
effect is antidilutive.

F-19


The following is a reconciliation of shares outstanding for basic and
diluted earnings per share

(in thousands)

:

Deferred stock units outstanding are included in shares outstanding for
basic and diluted earnings per share because the associated shares of the
Company’s common stock are issuable for no cash consideration, the number of
shares of the Company’s common stock to be issued is fixed and issuance is not
contingent. See Note 12.

In connection with the Company’s acquisition of the capital stock of Blue
Ridge Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Blue Ridge”) in 1998, the Company issued warrants
to acquire 806,000 shares of common stock at $31.59 per share that expired on
September 30, 2003. As of December 31, 2003, all of the warrants were
exercised or had expired.

Certain options and warrants to acquire shares have been excluded from the
calculation of shares outstanding for dilutive earnings per share because they
were anti-dilutive. The weighted average number of anti-dilutive rights (options
and warrants) to acquire shares, the weighted average exercise prices of such
anti-dilutive rights and the weighted average market value of shares used to
calculate the dilutive effect of options and warrants were as follows

(in
thousands, except per share amounts)

:

For the Years Ended December 31,




Weighted average number of shares underlying anti-dilutive rights:

Options




Warrants

—



Weighted average exercise price per underlying share of anti-dilutive rights:

Options

$

42.60

$

29.95

$

29.29

Warrants

$

—

$

31.59

$

31.59

Weighted average market value per
share

$

39.35

$

29.31

$

25.20

NOTE 8 COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND GUARANTEES

Commitments

The Company leases its facilities under operating leases, which expire
through 2018. In addition, the Company is responsible for the real estate
taxes and operating expenses related to these facilities. The Company also has
lease commitments for automobiles and office equipment. Minimum annual rental
payments under these agreements are as follows

(in thousands

):

Years Ending December 31,

Amount


$

5,707


4,784


4,095


3,565


3,355

Thereafter

19,607

$

41,113

F-20


Rent expense charged to operations under operating leases was
approximately $6.0 million, $5.9 million and $5.6 million for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Under the terms of certain supply agreements with suppliers of the
Company’s veterinary instruments, slides for its VetTest® instruments, and
certain raw materials, the Company has aggregate commitments to purchase
approximately $192.2 million of products through 2010. In addition, the Company
has various minimum royalty payments due through 2015 of $8.8 million.

The Company also has certain commitments associated with a joint venture. See
Note 14.

Contingencies

In connection with the Company’s acquisition of the capital stock of Blue
Ridge in 1998, the Company agreed to issue up to 1,241,000 shares of its common
stock based on the achievement by the Company’s pharmaceutical business
(including Blue Ridge) of net sales and operating profit targets through 2004.
As of December 31, 2003, up to 298,000 of the 1,241,000 shares described above
theoretically could be issued to the former Blue Ridge shareholders. However,
the Company does not anticipate that it will issue any additional shares in
connection with this agreement.

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company entered into a workers’
compensation insurance policy where the Company retains the first $0.25 million
in claim liability per incident and up to specific limits, based on payroll, in
claim liability in the aggregate. The Company renewed this workers’
compensation policy effective January 1, 2004. The Company is liable for up to
$1.4 million in aggregate claim liability for 2003 and estimates that it will
be liable for up to $2.0 million for 2004. The Company has recorded its
estimated claim liability as of December 31, 2003 based on claims incurred and
the estimated ultimate cost to settle the claims. The insurance company
administers and pays these claims and the Company reimburses the insurance
company for the Company’s portion of these claims. The insurance company also
provides insurance for claims above the individual occurrence and aggregate
limits. The Company issued a $0.5 million letter of credit to the insurance
company as security for these claims as of December 31, 2003 and agreed to
issue an additional $0.6 million letter of credit for 2004.

The Company currently purchases certain products and materials from single
sources or a limited number of sources. Some of the products that the Company
purchases from these sources are proprietary, and therefore may not be
available from other sources. These products include the Company’s VetTest®
chemistry and QBC® VetAutoread™ hematology analyzers and related consumables,
computed radiography systems, active ingredients for pharmaceutical products,
including NAVIGATOR®, and certain components of the Company’s SNAP® rapid assay
devices, water testing products, and LaserCyte® systems. If the Company is
unable to obtain adequate quantities of these products in the future, then it
could face cost increases or reductions or delays in product shipments, which
could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations.

From time to time, the Company has received notices alleging that the
Company’s products infringe third-party proprietary rights, although the
Company is not aware of any pending litigation with respect to such claims.
Patent litigation frequently is complex and expensive, and the outcome of
patent litigation can be difficult to predict. There can be no assurance that
the Company will prevail in any infringement proceedings that may be commenced
against the Company. If the Company loses any such litigation, it may be
stopped from selling certain products and/or it may be required to pay damages
as a result of the litigation.

The Company is subject to claims that arise in the ordinary course of
business, including with respect to actual and threatened litigation and other
matters. The Company accrues contingent liabilities when it is probable that
future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can reasonably be
estimated. However, the Company’s actual losses with respect to these
contingencies could exceed the Company’s accruals.

Guarantees

The following is a summary of the Company’s agreements and obligations
that it has determined to be within the scope of FIN 45.

F-21


The Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides
that the Company will indemnify its officers and directors to the maximum
extent permitted by Delaware law. The maximum payment that the Company may be
required to make under such provisions is theoretically unlimited and is
impossible to determine. The Company maintains directors’ and officers’
liability insurance, which may provide reimbursement to the Company for
payments made to, or on behalf of, officers and directors pursuant to the
indemnification provisions. The Company’s indemnification obligations were
grandfathered under the provisions of FIN No. 45 as they were in effect prior
to December 31, 2002. Accordingly, the Company has recorded no liability for
such obligations as of December 31, 2003.

The Company enters into agreements with third parties in the ordinary
course of business under which the Company is obligated to indemnify such third
parties for and against various risks and losses. The precise terms of such
indemnities vary with the nature of the agreement. In many cases, the Company
limits the maximum amount of its indemnification obligations, but in some cases
those obligations may be theoretically unlimited. The Company has not incurred
material expenses in discharging any of these indemnification obligations, and
based on its analysis of the nature of the risks involved, the Company believes
that the fair value of these agreements is minimal. Accordingly, the Company
has recorded no liabilities for these obligations as of December 31, 2003.

When acquiring a business, the Company sometimes assumes liability for
certain events or occurrences that took place prior to the date of acquisition.
The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required
to make for such obligations is undeterminable at this time. All of these
obligations were grandfathered under the provisions of FIN No. 45 as they were
in effect prior to December 31, 2002. Accordingly, the Company has no
liabilities recorded for these liabilities as of December 31, 2003.

NOTE 9 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(a)

Preferred Stock

The Board of Directors is authorized, subject to any limitations
prescribed by law, without further stockholder approval, to issue from time to
time up to 500,000 shares of Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value per share
(“Preferred Stock”), in one or more series. Each such series of Preferred
Stock shall have such number of shares, designations, preferences, voting
powers, qualifications and special or relative rights or privileges as shall be
determined by the Board of Directors, which may include, among others, dividend
rights, voting rights, redemption and sinking fund provisions, liquidation
preferences, conversion rights and preemptive rights.

(b)

Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock

On December 17, 1996, the Company designated 100,000 shares of Preferred
Stock as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (“Series A Stock”) in
connection with its Shareholder Rights Plan. See Note 10. In general, each
share of Series A Stock will: (i) be entitled to a minimum preferential
quarterly dividend of $10 per share and to an aggregate dividend of 1,000 times
the dividend declared per share of Common Stock, (ii) in the event of
liquidation, be entitled to a minimum preferential liquidation payment of
$1,000 per share (plus accrued and unpaid dividends) and to an aggregate
payment of 1,000 times the payment made per share of Common Stock, (iii) have
1,000 votes, voting together with the Common Stock, (iv) in the event of any
merger, consolidation or other transaction in which Common Stock is exchanged,
be entitled to receive 1,000 times the amount received per share of Common
Stock and (v) not be redeemable. These rights are protected by customary
antidilution provisions. There are no shares of Series A Stock outstanding.

NOTE 10 PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS

On December 17, 1996, the Company adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan and
declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding
share of Common Stock to stockholders of record at the close of business on
December 30, 1996. Under certain conditions, each right may be exercised to
purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Stock at a purchase price of
$200.00. The rights will be exercisable only if a person or group has acquired
beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the Common Stock or commenced a tender
or exchange offer that would result in such a person or group owning 30% or
more of the Common Stock. The Company generally will be entitled to redeem the
rights, in whole, but not in part, at a price of $.01 per right at any

F-22


time until the tenth business day following a public announcement that a
20% stock position has been acquired and in certain other circumstances.

If any person or group becomes a beneficial owner of 20% or more of the
Common Stock (except pursuant to a tender or exchange offer for all shares at a
fair price as determined by the outside members of the Company’s Board of
Directors), each right not owned by a 20% stockholder will enable its holder to
purchase such number of shares of Common Stock as is equal to the exercise
price of the right divided by one-half of the current market price of the
Common Stock on the date of the occurrence of the event. In addition, if the
Company thereafter is acquired in a merger or other business combination with
another person or group in which it is not the surviving corporation or in
connection with which its Common Stock is changed or converted, or if the
Company sells or transfers 50% or more of its assets or earning power to
another person, each right that has not previously been exercised will entitle
its holder to purchase such number of shares of common stock of such other
person as is equal to the exercise price of the right divided by one-half of
the current market price of such common stock on the date of the occurrence of
the event.

NOTE 11 TREASURY STOCK

The Company’s Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to
12,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the open market or in
negotiated transactions. During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001, the Company repurchased approximately 927,000, 1,000,000 and 590,000
shares, respectively, of common stock for $36.2 million, $29.8 million and
$13.0 million, respectively. From the inception of the stock repurchase
programs in August 1999 to December 31, 2003, the Company had repurchased
9,541,000 shares for $213.5 million. Additionally, during 2003 and 2002, the
Company received approximately 133,000 and 36,000 shares of stock,
respectively, which were owned by the holder for greater than six months, in
payment for the exercise price of stock options. The shares of stock had a fair
market value of $4.9 million and $1.1 million, respectively.

NOTE 12 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

The Company’s stock-based compensation plans are described below. Each of
these plans, and any amendments thereto increasing the number of shares
issuable thereunder, was approved by the Company’s stockholders.

1991 Stock Option Plan

During 1991, the Board of Directors approved the 1991 Stock Option Plan
(“1991 Stock Plan”), which, as amended, provided for grants up to 6,475,000
incentive and nonqualified stock options at the discretion of the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors. Incentive stock options were granted at
the fair market value on the date of grant and expired ten years from the date
of grant. Incentive stock options for greater than 10% shareholders were
granted at 110% of the fair market value and expired five years from the date
of grant. Nonstatutory options could be granted at no less than 100% of the
fair market value on the date of grant. The vesting schedule of all options is
determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time
of grant. In May 2003, the 1991 Stock Plan was terminated and replaced with
the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan and remaining shares transferred to the 2003
Stock Incentive Plan.

1991 Director Option Plan

During 1991, the Board of Directors approved the 1991 Director Option Plan
(as amended, the “1991 Director Plan”) pursuant to which Directors who were not
officers or employees of the Company were eligible to receive nonstatutory
options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. The time period for
granting options under the 1991 Director Plan expired in accordance with the
terms of the plan in June 1996.

1997 Director Option Plan

During 1997, the Board of Directors approved the 1997 Director Option Plan
(the “1997 Director Plan”) pursuant to which Directors who were not officers or
employees of the Company received nonstatutory options to

F-23


purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. On May 19, 1999, this plan
was terminated and replaced with the 1999 Director Stock Plan.

1998 Stock Incentive Plan

During 1998, the Board of Directors approved the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan
(the “1998 Stock Plan”), which provided for grants of incentive and
nonqualified stock options at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors. A total of 4,100,000 shares of common stock could be
issued under the 1998 Stock Plan as amended. Options granted under the 1998
Stock Plan could not be granted at an exercise price less than the fair market
value of the common stock on the date granted (or less than 110% of the fair
market value in the case of incentive stock options granted to holders of more
than 10% of the Company’s common stock). Options could not be granted for a
term of more than ten years. The vesting schedule of all options granted under
the 1998 Stock Plan was determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors at the time of grant. In May 2003, the 1998 Stock Plan was
terminated and replaced with the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan and remaining shares
transferred to the 2003 Stock Incentive Plan.

1999 Director Stock Plan

During 1999, the Board of Directors approved the 1999 Director Stock Plan
pursuant to which Directors who were not officers or employees of the Company
received shares of the Company’s common stock. A total of 80,000 shares of
common stock were issuable under the 1999 Director Stock Plan. In May 2000,
the 1999 Director Stock Plan was terminated and replaced with the 2000 Director
Option Plan. As of December 31, 2000, 13,364 shares had been issued under the
1999 Director Stock Plan, and the fair value of these shares of $0.4 million
was charged to expense in 1999 and 2000.

2000 Director Option Plan

During 2000, the Board of Directors approved the 2000 Director Option Plan
(the “2000 Director Plan”) pursuant to which Directors who were not officers or
employees of the Company received nonstatutory options to purchase shares of
the Company’s common stock. Under the 2000 Director Plan, each nonemployee
Director was granted an option to purchase 6,500 shares of common stock at each
annual meeting of the Company’s shareholders. Options granted under the 2000
Director Plan had an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the
Company’s common stock on the date of grant, vest fully on the first
anniversary of the date of grant and expire ten years from the date of grant.
A total of 200,000 shares of common stock may be issued under the plan. In May
2003, the 2000 Director Plan was terminated and replaced with the 2003 Stock
Inventive Plan and remaining shares transferred to the 2003 Stock Incentive
Plan.

2003 Stock Incentive Plan

During 2003, the Board of Directors approved the 2003 Stock Incentive
Plan, as amended (the “2003 Stock Plan”) pursuant to which employees and
Directors of the Company may receive various types of stock-based incentives,
including stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights and
deferred stock units. A total of 1,850,000 shares of common stock may be issued
under the 2003 Stock Plan as amended, provided that no more than 1,500,000
shares will be available for the grant of incentive stock options, and no more
than 600,000 shares will be available for awards other than stock options and
stock appreciation rights. Options granted under the 2003 Stock Plan may not
be granted at an exercise price less than the fair market value of the common
stock on the date granted (or less than 110% of the fair market value in the
case of incentive stock options granted to holders of more than 10% of the
Company’s Common Stock). Options may not be granted for a term of more than
ten years. The vesting schedule of all options granted under the 2003 Stock
Plan is determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at
the time of grant.

Deferred Compensation Plans

During 2003, the Company adopted new compensation policies for Directors
who are not officers or employees. Under these new policies, non-employee
Directors are required to defer a portion of their director compensation in the
form of unissued shares of the Company’s common stock (“Deferred Stock Units”)
pursuant to the Company’s Director Deferred Compensation Plan. The Deferred
Stock Units are valued at the closing sale price

F-24


of the common stock on the date of grant and will be exchanged for a fixed
number of shares of common stock by the Company one year following a Director’s
resignation or retirement. The value of these Deferred Stock Units is expensed
as compensation when earned, but in all cases prior to the issuance of the
Deferred Stock Units. The Company also has adopted an Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan (the “Executive Plan”) under which certain members of the
Company’s management may elect to defer a portion of their cash compensation,
beginning with 2003 incentive compensation payable in the first quarter of
2004, in Deferred Stock Units. These Deferred Stock Units will be exchanged for
a fixed number of shares of common stock on dates determined by the employee,
subject to the limitations of the Executive Plan. The Deferred Stock Units are
presented in the stockholders’ equity section of the balance sheet as Deferred
equity-based compensation.

Employee Stock Purchase Plans

During 1994, the Board of Directors approved the 1994 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan, under which the Company had reserved up to an aggregate of
300,000 shares of Common Stock for issuance in semiannual offerings over a
three-year period. During 1997, the Board of Directors approved the 1997
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, under which the Company has reserved and may
issue up to an aggregate of 620,000 shares of Common Stock in semiannual
offerings. Also during 1997, the Board of Directors approved the 1997
International Employee Stock Purchase Plan, under which the Company has
reserved and may issue up to an aggregate of 30,000 shares of Common Stock in
semiannual offerings. Stock is sold under each of these plans at 85% of fair
market value, as defined in the plans. Shares subscribed to and issued under
the plans were 50,200, 53,000 and 54,550 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Summary of Transactions Under Stock Option Plans

A summary of the status of the Company’s stock option plans as of December
31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 and changes during the years then ended are presented
in the table below

(in thousands, except weighted average exercise price)

:

As of December 31, 2003, a total of 1,897,000 shares of Common Stock were
available for future grants under the Company’s stock option plans.

F-25


Summary of Stock Options Outstanding

The following summarizes information about all stock options issued and
outstanding as of December 31, 2003

(in thousands, except exercise price and
per share amounts)

:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Weighted

Number

Average

Remaining

Number

Average

Exercise Price

of

Exercise

Contract

of

Exercise

Range

Options

Price

Life

Options

Price

$

13.69

-

$

22.50

1,036

$

18.15

4.62


$

17.90

22.69

-

25.20

1,395

24.02

6.87


23.98

26.63

-

34.23


27.27

7.80


27.59

34.27

-

46.60


35.45

9.16


37.55

Fair Value of Stock-Based Compensation

As discussed in Note 2(k), the Company accounts for stock-based
compensation to employees in accordance with APB No. 25, and elects to disclose
the pro forma impact of accounting for stock-based compensation plans under the
provisions of SFAS No. 123 and SFAS No.148. Accordingly, no SFAS No. 123-based
employee compensation cost has been recognized for these plans.

In order to determine the pro forma impact under SFAS No. 123, the fair
value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions:

For the Years Ended December 31,




Dividend yield

None

None

None

Expected
volatility


%


%


%

Risk-free interest
rate

3.2

%

3.3

%

4.4

%

Expected life in
years

6.1

6.0

5.2

In order to determine the pro forma impact under SFAS No. 123, the fair
value of the purchase rights issued under the employee stock purchase plans is
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model
with the following weighted average assumptions:

For the Years Ended December 31,




Dividend yield

None

None

None

Expected
volatility


%


%


%

Risk-free interest
rate

1.0

%

1.2

%

2.2

%

Expected life in
years

0.5

0.5

0.5

The weighted average fair value of options and purchase rights granted
were as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,




Weighted average fair value per underlying share:

Options
granted

$

19.07

$

14.28

$

11.21

Purchase rights granted under employee stock
purchase plans

8.96

6.95

7.07

NOTE 13 IDEXX RETIREMENT AND INCENTIVE SAVINGS PLAN

The Company has established the IDEXX Retirement and Incentive Savings
Plan (the “401(k) Plan”). Employees eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan
may contribute specified percentages of their salaries, a portion of which will
be matched by the Company. The Company matched $1.7 million for the year 2003,
$1.6 million for

F-26


the year 2002, and $1.6 million for the year 2001. In addition, the
Company may make contributions to the 401(k) Plan at the discretion of the
Board of Directors. There were no discretionary contributions in 2003, 2002 and
2001.

NOTE 14 JOINT VENTURE

On June 18, 2003, the Company and Beijing Fortunate Century Animal Health
Co., Ltd. (“BFCAH”), formed a joint venture, Beijing IDEXX-Yuanheng
Laboratories Co. Limited (the “Venture”), to assemble and market veterinary
diagnostic products for production animals in China. The Venture is
headquartered in Beijing, China. The Company’s initial equity interest in the
Venture is 40%, however, the Company is committed to acquire an additional 20%
of the Venture from BFCAH within two years, subject to Chinese government
approval. The Company bears an economic risk that is greater than its equity
interest and also has the ability to make decisions that significantly affect
the results of the activities of the Venture through majority board
representation. Therefore, the Venture will be consolidated into the Company’s
financial statements in accordance with FIN 46R. The Company contributed $1.5
million during the year ended December 31, 2003 and is obligated to make future
capital contributions of $0.6 million before August 11, 2005. The Company is
obligated to pay $0.6 million for the additional 20% interest discussed above,
and will make an additional $1.5 million capital contribution to the Venture
within three months after the approval by the Chinese government of the
additional 20% interest.

The Company is also obligated to make available to the Venture selected
technology, know-how and licenses and to assist with certain logistical,
management training and operating matters. In connection with the joint venture
agreement, the Company has not entered into indemnification agreements or
assumed liabilities predating the establishment of the Venture.

NOTE 15 CEO SUCCESSION

In January 2002, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was
succeeded by its current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Under an
employment agreement, the Company was required to make certain payments to its
former Chief Executive Officer and provide certain benefits to him following
this succession. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company incurred
a pre-tax charge of $3.4 million, $1.8 million of which was non-cash, related
to this agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2003 the Company
incurred a pre-tax charge of $0.1 million due to changes in estimates related
to this agreement. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, $0.1 million and $0.9
million, respectively, was due under this agreement and recorded in accrued
liabilities. The amount outstanding as of December 31, 2003 will be paid out
over 2004.

NOTE 16 IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

During the second quarter of 2002, the Company ceased its distributorship
of certain third-party products in Taiwan. As a result of this event, the
Company recorded an impairment charge of $0.25 million related to goodwill of
its Taiwan subsidiary, which was acquired in 1997.

During the third quarter of 2002, the Company discontinued certain
products acquired in the acquisition of Genera, a reporting unit in the Water
segment. The Company allocated a portion of the purchase price to an
intangible asset related to this product at the acquisition date. The
remaining unamortized balance of the intangible asset at the time of impairment
of $0.5 million was charged to other expense.

During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company entered into a new
agreement with Ortho. Under the new agreement, the Company is developing and
will introduce a next-generation chemistry analyzer for the veterinary market
based on Ortho’s dry-slide technology, and Ortho will supply the Company
with the slide consumables used in both the new instrument and the VetTest®
chemistry analyzer currently sold by the Company. As a result of this
agreement the Company decided to discontinue efforts to develop an alternative
chemistry system and incurred a non-cash charge of $7.4 million to write-down
equipment purchased to manufacture the consumable used in the alternative
chemistry system.

F-27


NOTE 17 SEGMENT REPORTING

The Company discloses information regarding its segments in accordance
with the provisions of SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information” (“SFAS No. 131”). SFAS No. 131 requires
disclosures about operating segments in annual financial statements and
requires selected information about operating segments in interim financial
statements. It also requires related disclosures about products and services
and geographic areas. Operating segments are defined as components of an
enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is
evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision-making
group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The
Company’s chief operating decision maker is the Chief Executive Officer.

The Company is organized into business units by market and customer group.
The Company’s reportable operating segments include the Companion Animal Group
(“CAG”), the Water testing business (“Water”) and the Food Diagnostics Group
(“FDG”) and other. CAG develops, designs, manufactures, and distributes
products and performs services for veterinarians. CAG also manufactures certain
biology-based test kits for veterinarians and develops products for therapeutic
applications in companion animals. Water develops, designs, manufactures and
distributes products to detect contaminants in water. FDG develops, designs,
manufactures and distributes products and performs services to detect disease
and contaminants in food animals and food. Other encompasses activities that
are not included in the Company’s reportable segments and is primarily
comprised of corporate research and development, CEO succession charge and
interest income. Assets categorized as other include cash, short-term
investments, long-term investments, deferred tax assets and other miscellaneous
current and long-term assets. The Company has conformed the financial
information about segments for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 to
its presentation of reportable segments for the year ended December 31, 2003.
Previously the Company reported two operating segments.

F-28


The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those
described in the summary of significant accounting policies except that most
interest income and expense are not allocated to individual operating segments
and income taxes are provided (benefited) on each segment using the overall
effective rate. Below is the Company’s segment information

(in thousands)

:

F-29


Revenue by principal geographic area was as follows

(in thousands)

:

Net long-lived assets by principal geographic areas was as follows

(in
thousands)

:

F-30


NOTE 18 SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)

A summary of quarterly data follows

(in thousands, except per share data)

:

For the Quarters Ended

March 31,

June 30,

September 30,

December 31,


Revenue

$

109,247

$

121,846

$

120,061

$

124,838

Gross profit

51,462

59,671

59,090

60,081

Operating income

17,447

24,334

23,286

15,320

Net income

12,062

16,690

15,973

12,365

Earnings per share:

Basic

$

0.36

$

0.49

$

0.46

$

0.36

Diluted

$

0.34

$

0.47

$

0.44

$

0.34


Revenue

$

96,551

$

105,690

$

104,534

$

105,895

Gross profit

43,061

49,895

50,760

49,009

Operating income

10,316

18,699

18,300

18,500

Net income

7,185

12,964

12,483

12,757

Earnings per share:

Basic

$

0.21

$

0.38

$

0.37

$

0.38

Diluted

$

0.21

$

0.37

$

0.36

$

0.36

F-31


SCHEDULE II

IDEXX LABORATORIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(in thousands)

Balance at

Charges to

Balance at

Beginning

Costs and

End

of Year

Expenses

Write-Offs

of Year

Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable:

December 21, 2001

$

4,390

$


$


$

3,993

December 31, 2002

3,993

(906

)


2,415

December 31, 2003

2,415



1,950

Accrued severance and lease cancellation reserve
(including CEO Succession Charge):

December 21, 2001

1,904

2,248

3,850


December 31, 2002


1,891

1,151

1,042

December 31, 2003

1,042




F-32