Item 1.Business

Host Inc. was incorporated as a Maryland corporation in 1998 and operates as a self-managed and self-administered REIT. Host Inc. owns properties and conducts operations through Host L.P., of which Host Inc. is the sole general partner and of which it holds approximately 99% of the partnership interests (“OP units”) as of December 31, 2017. The remaining partnership interests are owned by various unaffiliated limited partners. Host Inc. has the exclusive and complete responsibility for Host L.P.’s day-to-day management and control.

As of February 21, 2018, our consolidated lodging portfolio consists of 93 primarily luxury and upper-upscale hotels containing approximately 52,000 rooms, with the majority located in the United States, and with six of the properties located outside of the U.S. in Brazil, Canada and Mexico. In addition, we own non-controlling interests in four domestic and two international joint venturesand a timeshare venture in Hawaii.

Business Strategy

Our goal is to be the preeminent owner of high-quality lodging real estate in growing markets in the U.S. and to generate superior long-term returns for our stockholders throughout all lodging cycles through a combination of appreciation in asset values, growth in earnings and dividend distributions. Our strategy to achieve this objective includes:

•Geographically Diverse Portfolio- Own a diversified U.S. portfolio of hotels in major urban and resort destinations;

•Strong Scale and Value Creation Platform– Utilize our scale to create value through enterprise analytics, asset management and capital investment initiatives, while aiding external growth by leveraging scale as a competitive advantage to acquire assets befitting our strategy;

•Disciplined Capital Allocation- Allocate and recycle capital to seek returns that exceed our cost of capital and actively return capital to stockholders;

•Powerful and Flexible Balance Sheet- Maintain a strong and flexible capital structure that allows us to execute our strategy throughout all lodging cycles; and

•Employer of Choice and Responsible Corporate Citizen– Align our organizational structure with our business objectives to be an employer of choice and a responsible corporate citizen.






Geographically Diverse Portfolio.We seek to have a geographically diversified portfolio in top U.S. major markets and premier resort destinations. We primarily will focus on acquisitions and, occasionally, new development opportunities to enhance our portfolio. We focus generally on the following types of assets:

•Resortsin locations with strong airlift and limited supply growth. These assets feature superior amenities and are operated by premier operators;

•Convention destination hotelsthat are group oriented in urban and resort markets. These assets feature extensive and high-quality meeting facilities and often are connected to prominent convention centers; and

•High-end urban hotelsthat are positioned in prime locations and possess multiple demand drivers for both business and leisure travelers.

As one of the largest owners of Marriott and Hyatt properties, our hotels are primarily operated under brand names that are among the most respected and widely recognized in the lodging industry. Within these brands, we have focused predominantly on the upper-upscale and luxury asset classes, as we believe they have a broad appeal for both individual and group leisure and business customers. We also may invest in other property types which we believe have the potential for strong demand growth, including urban select service. In addition, we have several unbranded or soft-branded properties that appeal to distinctive customer profiles in certain select submarkets.

Enterprise Analytics Platform.Due to the scale of our asset management and business intelligence platform, we believe we are in a unique position to work with our managers to drive operating performance and implement value-added real estate decisions. The size and composition of our portfolio and our affiliation with most of the leading brands and operators in the industry allow our enterprise analytics team to benchmark similar hotels and identify best practices and efficiencies that can improve long-term profitability. We perform independent underwriting of return on investment (“ROI”) projects and potential acquisitions, as well as revenue management analysis of ancillary revenue operations. Our goal is to continue to differentiate our assets within their competitive market, drive operating performance and enhance the overall value of our real estate through the following:

•Enhance profitabilityby using our business intelligence system to benchmark and monitor hotel performance and cost controls and complete deep-dive analytic reviews across brands and properties to seek to identify new opportunities that could increase profit.

•Drive revenue growthby conducting detailed strategic reviews with our managers on market pricing and business mix in order to develop the appropriate group/transient mix, on-line presence to address a broad customer base, and market share targets for each property.

•Work with leading brands,such as Marriottor Hyatt, to take advantage of their worldwide presence and lodging infrastructure. We also have 17 hotels managed by independent operators and we believe these operators have a greater potential to maximize earnings at certain properties.

•Improve asset value through the extension or purchase of ground leases or the restructuring of management agreements to increase contract flexibility.

Disciplined Capital Allocation.Guided by a disciplined approach to capital allocation, we are aligned to make investment decisions that seek to deliver the greatest value and returns to stockholders. Our goal is to allocate capital to enhance and improve our portfolio, while balancing the importance of prudently returning capital to stockholders.

For 2018, we will continue our disciplined approach to capital allocation and intend to take advantage of our strong balance sheet and overall scale. We constantly are evaluating both single hotel and hotel portfolio transactions to acquire iconic upper-upscale and luxury properties that we believe have sustainable competitive advantages. Similarly, we intend to continue our capital recycling program with strategic and opportunistic dispositions. This may include asset sales, where we believe the potential for growth is constrained or properties with significant capital expenditures requirements that we do not believe would generate an adequate return on investment exceeding our cost of capital. This also includes reducing our exposure to international investments to focus on our U.S. portfolio.

We may acquire additional properties or dispose of properties through various structures, including transactions involving single assets, portfolios, joint ventures, mergers and acquisitions of the securities or assets of other REITs or spin off distributions of hotel properties to our stockholders. We anticipate that any acquisitions may be funded by, or through a combination of, proceeds from the sales of properties, equity offerings of Host Inc., issuances of OP units by Host L.P., incurrence of debt, available cash or advances under our credit facility. We note, however, that the nature and supply of these assets make acquisitions inherently difficult to predict. For these reasons, we can make no assurances that we will be successful in purchasing any one or more hotels that we currently are reviewing, or may in the future review, bid on or negotiate to buy.

We also seek to createand mine value from our existing portfolio through ROI projects. We work closely with our managers to attempt to schedule these projects to minimize operational disruption and environmental impact. ROI projects are designed to take






advantage of changing market conditions and the favorable location of our properties, while seeking to increase profitability and enhance customer satisfaction. These projects are designed to improve the positioning of our hotels within their markets and competitive set and include extensive renovations including lobbies, food and beverage outlets; expanding and/or extensive renovation of ballroom and meeting rooms; major mechanical system upgrades, and green building initiatives and certifications.It also includesprojects focused on increasing space profitability or lowering net operating costs, such as converting unprofitable or underutilized space into meeting space, adding guestrooms, and implementing energy and water conservation measures such as energy management systems, solar power, energy and usage efficient mechanical, electrical and plumbing equipment and fixtures, and building automation systems.

Renewal and replacement capital expenditures are designed to maintain the quality and competitiveness of our hotels. Typically, room renovations occur at intervals of approximately seven years, but the timing may vary based on the type of property and equipment being renovated. These renovations generally are divided into the following types: soft goods, case goods, bathroom and infrastructure. Soft goods include items such as carpeting, bed spreads, curtains and wall vinyl and may require more frequent updates in order to maintain brand quality standards. Case goods include items such as dressers, desks, couches, restaurant and meeting room chairs and tables; which generally are not replaced as frequently. Bathroom renovations include the replacement of tile, vanity, lighting and plumbing fixtures. Infrastructure includes the physical plant of the hotel, including the roof, elevators/escalators, façade, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning and fire systems.

Throughout the lodging cycle, to the extent that we are unable to find appropriate investment opportunities that meet our return requirements, we will focus on returning capital to stockholders through dividends or common stock repurchases. Significant factors we review to determine the level and timing of the returns to stockholders include our current stock price compared to our determination of the underlying value of our assets, current and forecast operating results and the completion of hotel sales.

Powerful and Flexible Balance Sheet.Our goal is to maintain a flexible capital structure that allows us to execute our strategy throughout the lodging cycle. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, Host Inc. is required to distribute 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain, including taxable income recognized for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive cash) to its stockholders each year and, as a result, generally relies on external sources of capital, as well as cash from operations, to finance growth.

Management believes that astrong balance sheetis a key competitive advantage that affords us a lower cost of capital and positions us for external growth. While we may issue debt at any time, we will target a net debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) ratio, (or “Leverage Ratio,” as defined in our credit facility) that allows us to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior unsecured debt. We believe an investment grade rating will deliver the most consistent access to capital at the lowest cost.

We seek to structure our debt profile tomaintain financial flexibility and a balanced maturity schedulewith access to different forms of financing; primarily senior notes and exchangeable debentures, as well as mortgage debt. Generally, we look to minimize the number of assets that are encumbered by mortgage debt, minimize near-term maturities and maintain a balanced maturity schedule. We may issue debt in foreign currencies to match the proceeds thereof with their intended use in order to reduce the potential costs of investing in foreign properties in terms of foreign currency fluctuation and local direct and indirect taxes. Depending on market conditions, we also may utilize variable rate debt which can provide greater protection during a decline in the lodging industry.

In order to increase potential asset sale proceeds, we may look for opportunities to implement value-add capital expenditures projects and ground lease extensions or purchases. In addition, we may obtain or seek to promote the sale of assets that have management contract flexibility, which also can increase the potential sale price. We also may opportunistically dispose of higher-quality assets through direct sales or through the creation of joint ventures and look to deploy the capital received into accretive investment opportunities or return the capital to stockholders.

Corporate Responsibility.Our corporate responsibility strategy focuses on a set of complementary objectives across three themes:

•Responsible Investment:During the acquisition of properties, we assess both capital investments that may include sustainability opportunities and climate change related risk mitigation as part of our due diligence process. During the ownership of our properties, we seek to invest in proven sustainability practices in our ROI projects that can enhance asset value while also improving environmental performance.

•Environmental Stewardship:We seek to minimize the environmental footprint of our properties.  We have established measurable goals to reduce energy consumption, water usage, waste reduction, and carbon emissions across our portfolio and will continue to report on actual performance in our environmental disclosures. In our ROI projects, we may target specific environmental efficiency projects, equipment upgrades and replacements that reduce energy and water consumption and offer appropriate returns on investment.

•Corporate Citizenship:We are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen and strengthening our local communities through financial support, community engagement, volunteer service, and industry collaboration. Our






approach is reinforced by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and periodic engagement with key stakeholders to understand their corporate responsibility priorities.

In March 2016, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) issued the provisional standard Real Estate Owners, Developers & Investment Trusts Sustainability Accounting Standard. The provisional standard outlines proposed disclosure topics and accounting metrics for the real estate industry. The recommended energy and water management metrics that best correlate with our industry include energy consumption data coverage as a percentage of floor area (“Energy Intensity”); total energy consumed by portfolio area (“Total Energy Consumption”); water withdrawal as a percentage of total floor area, or number of units (for our calculation we use occupied rooms) (“Water Intensity”); and total water withdrawn by portfolio area (“Total Water Consumption”). The energy and water data we use is collected and reviewed by third-parties who compile the data from property utility statements. These metrics enable us to track the effectiveness of water and energy reduction ROI projects.

We reference key aspects and metrics of our sustainability efforts through the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Index, in accordance with the GRI framework and, beginning in 2015, contracted with a third-party to provide further verification of our energy and water consumption data. Based on efficiencies gained in both energy and water usage, we achieved savings of approximately $8 million in 2016 and $6 million in 2015 when compared to 2014 Energy Intensity levels. The charts below detail our Energy Intensity, Total Energy Consumption, Water Intensity and Total Water Consumption for 2014 through 2016, the last three fiscal years for which data is available(1):





(1)Energy and water metrics relate to our consolidated domestic hotels owned for the entire year presented. The water data excludes one domestic hotel in 2014, 2015 and 2016, as reliable utility data was not available.

The Lodging Industry

The lodging industry in the United States consists of private and public entities that operate in a diversified market under a variety of brand names. The lodging industry has several key participants:

•Owners—own the hotel and typically enter into an agreement for an independent third party to manage the hotel. These properties may be branded and operated under the manager’s brand or branded under a franchise agreement and operated by the franchisee or by an independent hotel manager. The properties also may be operated as an independent hotel by an independent hotel manager.

•Owner/Managers—own the hotel and operate the property with their own management team. These properties may be branded under a franchise agreement, operated as an independent hotel or operated under the owner’s brand. We are prohibited from operating and managing hotels under applicable REIT rules.

•Franchisors—own a brand or brands and strive to grow their revenues by expanding the number of hotels in their franchise system. Franchisors provide their hotels with brand recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems for the franchised hotels.

•Franchisor/Managers—own a brand or brands and also operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner or franchisee.

•Managers—operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner, but do not, themselves, own a brand. The hotels may be operated under a franchise agreement or as an independent hotel.

The hotel manager is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the hotel, including the employment of hotel staff, the determination of room rates, the development of sales and marketing plans, the preparation of operating and capital expenditures






budgets and the preparation of financial reports for the owner. The hotel manager typically receives fees based on the revenues and profitability of the hotel.

Supply and Demand Trends.Our industry is influenced by the cyclical relationship between the supply of and demand for hotel rooms. Lodging demand growth typically is related to the vitality of the overall economy, in addition to local market factors that stimulate travel to specific destinations. In particular, trends in economic indicators such as GDP growth, business investment, corporate profits and employment growth are key indicators of the relative strength of lodging demand. Lodging demand also will be affected by changes to international travel and changes in technology that enable virtual meetings.

Lodging supply growth generally is driven by overall lodging demand, as extended periods of strong demand growth tend to encourage new development. However, the rate of supply growth also is influenced by a number of additional factors, including the availability of capital, interest rates, construction costs and unique market considerations. The relatively long lead-time required to complete the development of hotels makes supply growth easier to forecast than demand growth, but increases the volatility of the cyclical behavior of the lodging industry. A recent source of supply for the industry has been the rapid growth of professionally managed online short-term rentals, including as a flexible option for apartment buildings. However, the impact on the hotel industry and the availability of these outlets is more variable than typical changes in supply from hotel construction and tends to be very market specific. As illustrated in the charts below for the U.S. lodging industry, at different points in the cycle, demand may increase when there is no new supply or supply may grow when demand is declining.






Our portfolio primarily consists of upper upscale and luxury hotels and, accordingly, its performance is best understood in comparison to the upper upscale category rather than the entire industry. The supply growth rate is expected to continue to increase in 2018. The charts below detail the historical supply, demand and revenue per available room (“RevPAR”) growth for the U.S. lodging industry and for the U.S. luxury and upper upscale categories for 2013 to 2017 and forecast data for 2018:

U.S. Lodging Industry Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth



Source: Historical data - STR, 2018 Forecast - CBRE Hotels’ Americas Research



U.S. Luxury and Upper Upscale Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth



Source: Historical data - STR, 2018 Forecast - CBRE Hotels’ Americas Research








Managers and Operational Agreements

All of our hotels are managed by third parties pursuant to management or operating agreements, with some of such hotels also subject to separate franchise or license agreements addressing matters pertaining to operation under the designated brand. Under these agreements, the managers have sole responsibility and exclusive authority for all activities necessary for the day-to-day operation of the hotels, including establishing room rates, securing and processing reservations, procuring inventories, supplies and services, providing periodic inspection and consultation visits to the hotels by the managers’ technical and operational experts and promoting and publicizing the hotels. The managers employ all managerial and other employees for the hotels, review hotel operations with a focus on improving revenues and managing expenses, review the maintenance of the hotels, prepare reports, budgets and projections, and provide other administrative and accounting support services to the hotels. These support services include planning and policy services, divisional financial services, product planning and development, employee staffing and training, corporate executive management and certain in-house legal services. We have certain approval rights over budgets, capital expenditures, significant leases and contractual commitments, and various other matters.

General Terms and Provisions– Agreements governing our hotels managed by brand owners (Marriott, Hyatt, Hilton and AccorHotels) typically include the terms described below:

•Term and fees for operational services. The initial term of our management and operating agreements generally is 10 to 25 years, with one or more renewal terms at the option of the manager. The majority of our management agreements condition the manager’s right to exercise options for specified renewal terms upon the satisfaction of specified economic performance criteria. The manager typically receives compensation in the form of a base management fee, which is calculated as a percentage (generally 2-3%) of annual gross revenues, and an incentive management fee, which typically is calculated as a percentage (generally 10-20%) of operating profit after the owner has received a priority return on its investment in the hotel. In the case of our hotels operating under the W®, Westin®, Sheraton®, Luxury Collection®and St. Regis®brands and managed by Marriott following its acquisition of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. on September 23, 2016 (collectively, the “Starwood Hotels”), the base management fee is only 1% of annual gross revenues, but that amount is supplemented by license fees payable under a separate license agreement (as described below).

•License services. In the case of the Starwood Hotels, operations are governed by separate license agreements addressing matters pertaining to the designated brand, including rights to use trademarks, service marks and logos, matters relating to compliance with certain brand standards and policies, and the provision of certain system programs and centralized services. Although the term of these license agreements generally is coterminous with the corresponding operating agreements, the license agreements contemplate the potential for continued brand affiliation even in the event of a termination of the operating agreement (for instance, in the event the hotel is operated by an independent operator). Licensors receive compensation in the form of license fees (generally 5% of gross revenues attributable to room sales and 2% of gross revenues attributable to food and beverage sales), which amounts supplement the lower base management fee of 1% of gross revenues received by Marriott under the operating agreements, as noted above.

•Chain or system programs and services. Managers are required to provide chain or system programs and services generally that are furnished on a centralized basis. Such services include the development and operation of certain computer systems and reservation services, regional or other centralized management and administrative services, marketing and sales programs and services, training and other personnel services, and other centralized or regional services as may be determined to be more efficiently performedona centralized, regional or group basis rather than on an individual hotel basis. Costs and expenses incurred in providing these chain or system programs and services generally are allocated on a cost reimbursement basis among all hotels managed by the manager or its affiliates or that otherwise benefit from these services.

•Working capital and fixed asset supplies. We are required to maintain working capital for each hotel and to fund the cost of certain fixed asset supplies (for example, linen, china, glassware, silver and uniforms). We also are responsible for providing funds to meet the cash needs for hotel operations if at any time the funds available from working capital are insufficient to meet the financial requirements of the hotels. For certain hotels, the working capital accounts which would otherwise be maintained by the managers for each of such hotels are maintained on a pooled basis, with managers being authorized to make withdrawals from such pooled account as otherwise contemplated with respect to working capital in accordance with the provisions of the management or operating agreements.

•Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements. We are required to provide the managers with all furniture, fixtures and equipment (“FF&E”) necessary for the operation of the hotels (including funding any required FF&E replacements). On an annual basis, the managers prepare budgets for FF&E to be acquired and certain routine repairs and maintenance to be performed in the next year and an estimate of the necessary funds, which budgets are subject to our review and approval. For purposes of funding such expenditures, a specified percentage (typically 5%) of the gross revenues of each hotel is deposited by the manager into an escrow or reserve account in our name, to which the manager has access. For certain hotels, we have negotiated flexibility with the manager that reduces the funding commitment required as follows:






oFor certain of our Marriott-managed hotels, we have entered into an agreement with Marriott to allow for such expenditures to be funded from one pooled reserve account, rather than funds being deposited into separate reserve accounts at each hotel, with the minimum required balance maintained on an ongoing basis in that pooled reserve account being significantly less than the amount that would have been maintained otherwise in such separate hotel reserve accounts.

oFor certain of the Starwood Hotels, the periodic reserve fund contributions, which otherwise would be deposited into reserve accounts maintained by managers for each hotel, are distributed to us and we are responsible for providing funding of expenditures which otherwise would be funded from reserve accounts for each of the subject hotels.

One implication of these flexible funding arrangements is that upon sale, one of the parties, either we as the seller or the purchaser is usually required to fund the FF&E reserve to its full level.

•Building alterations, improvements and renewals. The managers are required to prepare an annual estimate of the expenditures necessary for major repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and elevators of each hotel, along with alterations and improvements to the hotel as are required, in the manager’s reasonable judgment, to keep the hotel in a competitive, efficient and economical operating condition that is consistent with brand standards. We generally have approval rights as to such budgets and expenditures, which we review and approve based on our manager’s recommendations and on our judgment. Expenditures for these major repairs and improvements affecting the hotel building typically are funded directly by owners, although our agreements with Marriott in respect of the Starwood Hotels contemplate that certain such expenditures may also be funded from the FF&E reserve account.

•Treatment of additional owner funding. As additional owner funding becomes necessary, either for expenditures generally funded from the FF&E replacement funds, or for any major repairs or improvements to the hotel building which may be required to be funded directly by owners, most of our agreements provide for an economic benefit to us through an impact on the calculation of incentive management fees payable to our managers. One approach frequently utilized at our Marriott-managed hotels (excluding the Starwood Hotels) is to provide such owner funding through loans which are repaid, with interest, from operational revenues, with the repayment amounts reducing operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. Another approach that is used at the Starwood Hotels, as well as with certain capital expenditures projects at some of our other Marriott-managed hotels, is to treat such owner funding as an increase to our investment in the hotel, resulting in an increase to owner’s priority return with a corresponding reduction to the amount of operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. For the hotels that are subject to the pooled arrangement described above, the amount of any additional reserve account funding is allocated to each of such hotels on a pro rata basis, determined with reference to the net operating income of each hotel and the total net operating income of all such pooled hotels for the most recent operating year.

•Territorial protections. Certain management and operating agreements impose restrictions for a specified period which limit the manager and its affiliates from owning, operating or licensing a hotel of the same brand within a specified area. The area restrictions vary with each hotel, from city blocks in urban areas to up to a multi-mile radius from the hotel in other areas.

•Sale of the hotel. Subject to specific agreements as to certain hotels (see below under “Special Termination Rights”), we generally are limited in our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels by the requirement that the transferee assume the related management agreements and meet specified other conditions, including the condition that the transferee not be a competitor of the manager.

•Performance Termination Rights.In addition to any right to terminate that may arise as a result of a default by the manager, most of our management and operating agreements include reserved rights by us to terminate on the basis of the manager’s failure to meet certain performance-based metrics, typically including a specified threshold return on owner’s investment in the hotel, along with a failure of the hotel to achieve a specified RevPAR performance threshold established with reference to other competitive hotels in the market. Typically, such performance-based termination rights arise in the event the operator fails to achieve these specified performance thresholds over a consecutive two-year period, and are subject to the manager’s ability to “cure” and avoid termination by payment to us of specified deficiency amounts (or, in some instances, waiver of the right to receive specified future management fees). We have agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to waive certain of these termination rights in exchange for consideration from a manager or its affiliates, which consideration may include cash compensation or amendments to management agreements.

•Special Termination Rights.In addition to any performance-based or other termination rights set forth in our management and operating agreements, we have specific negotiated termination rights as to certain management and operating agreements. While the brand affiliation of a property may increase the value of a hotel, the ability to dispose of a property unencumbered by a management agreement, or even brand affiliation, also can increase the value for prospective purchasers. These termination rights can take a number of different forms, including termination of agreements upon sale






that leave the property unencumbered by any agreement; termination upon sale provided that the property continues to be operated under a license or franchise agreement with continued brand affiliation; as well as termination without sale or other condition, which may require the payment of a fee. These termination rights also mayrestrictthe number of agreements that may be terminated over any annual or other period; impose limitations on the number of agreements terminated as measured by EBITDA; require that a certain number of properties continue to maintain the brand affiliation; or be restricted to a specific pool of assets.

In addition to hotels managed by brand owners, we have both branded hotels and non-branded hotels operated by independent managers. Our management agreements with independent managers, while similar in operational scope to agreements with our brand managers, typically have shorter initial terms, no renewal rights, more flexible termination rights, and more limited system-wide services. However, while we have additional flexibility with regard to these operators, certain of those hotels remain subject to underlying franchise or licensing agreements. These franchise or licensing agreements allow us to engage independent managers to operate our hotels under the applicable brand names and to participate in the brands’ reservation and loyalty-rewards systems. Under these agreements, we pay the brand owners a franchise or licensing fee equal to a specified percentage of gross room revenues, as well as other system fees and reimbursements. In addition, we are obligated to maintain applicable brand standards at our franchised hotels.

Operating Structure

Our operating structure is as follows:












As a REIT, certain tax laws limit the amount of “non-qualifying” income that Host Inc. and Host L.P. can earn, including income derived directly from the operation of hotels. As a result, we lease substantially all of our consolidated properties to certain of our subsidiaries designated as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”) for federal income tax purposes or to third party lessees. Our TRSs are subject to income tax and are not limited as to the amount of non-qualifying income they can generate, but they are limited in terms of their value as a percentage of the total value of our assets. Our TRS enter into agreements with third parties to manage the operations of the hotels. Our TRS also may own assets engaging in activities that produce non-qualifying income, such as the development of timeshare or condominium units, subject to certain restrictions. The difference between the hotels’ net operating cash flow and the aggregate rents paid to Host L.P. is retained by our TRS as taxable income. Accordingly, the net effect of the TRS leases is that a portion of the net operating cash flow from our properties is subject to federal, state and, if applicable, foreign corporate income tax.

Our Consolidated Hotel Portfolio

As of February 21, 2018, we owned a portfolio of 93 hotel properties, of which 87 are located in the United States and six are located in Brazil, Canada, and Mexico. Our consolidated hotels located outside the United States collectively have approximately 2,000 rooms. Approximately 2%, 3%, and 4% of our revenues were attributed to the operations of these foreign properties in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. See Note 15. Geographic and Business Segment Information in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on revenues in the geographic regions in which we operate.

The lodging industry is viewed as consisting of six different categories, each of which caters to a discrete set of customer tastes and needs: luxury, upper upscale, upscale, upper midscale, midscale and economy. Our portfolio primarily consists of luxury and upper upscale properties, which are operated under internationally recognized brand names such as Marriott, Westin, Ritz-Carlton, Hyatt and Hilton. There also has been a trend towards specialized, smaller boutique hotels that are customized towards a particular customer profile. Generally, these properties will be operated by an independent third party and either will have no brand affiliation, or will be associated with a major brand, while maintaining the majority of its independent identity (which we refer to as “soft-branded” properties).

Revenues earned at our hotels consist of three broad categories: rooms, food and beverage, and other revenues. While approximately 65% of our revenue is generated from room sales, many of our properties feature a variety of amenities that help drive demand and profitability. Our hotels typically include meeting and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and lounges, swimming pools, exercise facilities and/or spas, gift shops and parking facilities, the combination of which enable them to serve business, leisure and group travelers.

Our top 40 hotels by RevPAR represent nearly 65% of our total revenues. Additionally, 37 of our consolidated hotels have in excess of 500 rooms. The average age of our properties is 35 years, although substantially all of them have benefited from significant renovations or major additions, as well as regularly scheduled renewal and replacement expenditures and other capital improvements.






By Brand.The following table details our consolidated hotel portfolio by brand as of February 21, 2018:



NumberPercentage ofBrandof HotelsRoomsRevenues(1)Marriott:Marriott3722,39439.7%Ritz-Carlton51,8936.7Autograph Collection12770.4JW Marriott52,2213.8W41,6963.7St. Regis12320.5Luxury Collection21,1552.8Westin136,91211.9Sheraton44,4237.9Residence Inn12990.3Courtyard13370.3Total Marriott7441,83978.0Hyatt:Grand Hyatt32,9646.3Hyatt Place14260.5Hyatt Regency53,4217.1Total Hyatt96,81113.9Hilton:Curio13910.9Hilton12230.3Embassy Suites14550.6Total Hilton31,0691.8AccorHotels:Swissôtel16611.1Fairmont14502.1ibis12560.1Novotel11490.1Total AccorHotels41,5163.4Other/Independent37421.39351,97798%___________

(1)Based on our 2017 revenues; sold hotels accounted for the remaining 2% of our revenues. No individual property contributed more than 7% of total revenues in 2017. Hotels that are not considered upper upscale or luxury constitute less than 2% of our revenues.










By Location.The following table details the location and number of rooms at our consolidated hotels as of February 21, 2018:



LocationRoomsLocationRooms

ArizonaIllinois (continued)

Scottsdale Marriott Suites Old Town243Chicago Marriott Suites O’Hare256

Scottsdale Marriott at McDowell Mountains266Courtyard Chicago Downtown/River North337

The Phoenician, A Luxury Collection Resort645Embassy Suites by Hilton Chicago Downtown

The Camby Hotel277Magnificent Mile455

The Westin Kierland Resort & Spa732Swissôtel Chicago661

CaliforniaThe Westin Chicago River North429

Axiom Hotel152Indiana

Coronado Island Marriott Resort & Spa(1)300The Westin Indianapolis575

Costa Mesa Marriott253Louisiana

Hyatt Regency San Francisco Airport789New Orleans Marriott1,333

Manchester Grand Hyatt San Diego(1)1,628Maryland

Marina del Rey Marriott(1)370Gaithersburg Marriott Washingtonian Center284

Marriott Marquis San Diego Marina(1)1,360Massachusetts

Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa532Boston Marriott Copley Place(1)1,144

Newport Beach Marriott Bayview254Hyatt Regency Cambridge, Overlooking Boston470

San Francisco Marriott Fisherman’s Wharf285Sheraton Boston Hotel1,220

San Francisco Marriott Marquis(1)1,500The Westin Waltham Boston351

San Ramon Marriott(1)368Minnesota

Santa Clara Marriott(1)759Minneapolis Marriott City Center585

Sheraton San Diego Hotel & Marina(1)1,053New Jersey

The Ritz-Carlton, Marina del Rey(1)304Newark Liberty International Airport Marriott(1)591

The Westin Los Angeles Airport(1)740Sheraton Parsippany Hotel370

The Westin Mission Hills Resort & Spa512New York

The Westin South Coast Plaza, Costa Mesa(2)390New York Marriott Downtown513

W Hollywood(1)305New York Marriott Marquis1,966

ColoradoSheraton New York Times Square Hotel1,780

Denver Marriott Tech Center605The Westin New York Grand Central774

Denver Marriott West(1)305W New York(3)697

The Westin Denver Downtown430W New York – Union Square270

FloridaOhio

Hilton Singer Island Oceanfront/Palm BeachesThe Westin Cincinnati(1)456

Resort223Pennsylvania

Miami Marriott Biscayne Bay600Philadelphia Airport Marriott(1)419

Orlando World Center Marriott2,004The Logan391

Tampa Airport Marriott(1)298Texas

The Don CeSar347Houston Airport Marriott at George Bush

The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island446Intercontinental(1) (4)573

The Ritz-Carlton, Naples450Houston Marriott Medical Center(1)395

The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort, Naples295JW Marriott Houston516

YVE Hotel Miami243San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter(1)1,001

GeorgiaSan Antonio Marriott Riverwalk(1)512

Atlanta Marriott Suites Midtown(1)254The St. Regis Houston232

Grand Hyatt Atlanta in Buckhead439Virginia

JW Marriott Atlanta Buckhead371Hyatt Regency Reston518

The Westin Buckhead Atlanta365Residence Inn Arlington Pentagon City299

The Whitley, A Luxury Collection Hotel,The Ritz-Carlton, Tysons Corner(1)398

Atlanta Buckhead510Washington Dulles Airport Marriott(1)368

HawaiiWestfields Marriott Washington Dulles336

Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui450Washington

Hyatt Place Waikiki Beach426The Westin Seattle891

Hyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa806W Seattle424

IllinoisWashington, D.C.

Chicago Marriott Suites Downers Grove254Grand Hyatt Washington897






Washington, D.C. (continued)Brazil (continued)Hyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill838Novotel Rio de Janeiro Parque Olimpico149JW Marriott Washington DC777CanadaThe Westin Georgetown, Washington, D.C.267Calgary Marriott Downtown388Washington Marriott at Metro Center459Toronto Marriott Downtown Eaton Centre Hotel(1)461BrazilMexicoibis Rio de Janeiro Parque Olimpico256JW Marriott Hotel Mexico City(4)312JW Marriott Hotel Rio de Janeiro245Total51,977___________

(1)The land on which this hotel is built is leased from a third party under one or more lease agreements.

(2)The land, building and improvements are leased from a third party under a long-term lease agreement.

(3)This property is classified as held for sale.

(4)This property is not wholly owned.



By Market Location:The following chart summarizes the composition of our consolidated hotels as of February 21, 2018 by market location based on percentage of 2017 revenues:



(1)Our disposed hotels accounted for the remaining 2% of our 2017 revenues.






Other Real Estate Interests

We own non-controlling interests in several entities that, as of February 21, 2018, owned, or owned an interest in, 21 hotel properties. The operations of the properties owned by these entities are not consolidated and are included in equity in earnings in our consolidated results of operations. See Part II Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 3. Investments in Affiliates.”

European Joint Venture.We own a general and limited partner interest in a joint venture in Europe (“Euro JV”). The Euro JV consists of two funds, which we refer to as Euro JV Fund I and Euro JV Fund II, in which we hold an approximate one-third interest through both general and limited partner interests. The Euro JV owns the following hotels:

HotelCityCountryRooms/UnitsFund I:Hotel Arts BarcelonaBarcelonaSpain483The Westin Palace, MadridMadridSpain470Brussels Marriott Hotel Grand PlaceBrusselsBelgium221Fund I total rooms1,174Fund II:Paris Marriott Rive Gauche Hotel & Conference CenterParisFrance757Renaissance Paris La Defense HotelParisFrance330Renaissance Paris Vendome HotelParisFrance97Renaissance Amsterdam HotelAmsterdamThe Netherlands402Hilton Amsterdam Airport SchipholAmsterdamThe Netherlands433Le Méridien PiccadillyLondonUnited Kingdom283Sheraton Stockholm HotelStockholmSweden465Sheraton Berlin Grand Hotel EsplanadeBerlinGermany394Fund II total rooms3,161Total European joint venture rooms4,335

Competition

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

(1)



We also compete with other REITs and other public and private investors for the acquisition of new properties and investment opportunities, both in domestic and international markets, as we attempt to position our portfolio to best take advantage of changes in markets and travel patterns of our customers.



(1)This annual report contains registered trademarks that are the exclusive property of their respective owners, which are companies other than us. None of the owners

of these trademarks, their affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, agents or employees, has or will have any responsibility or liability for any

information contained in this annual report.






Seasonality

Our hotel sales traditionally have experienced moderate seasonality, which varies based on the individual property and the region. Hotel sales for our consolidated portfolio averaged approximately 25%, 27%, 23% and 25% for the first, second, third and fourth calendar quarters, respectively, in 2017.

Environmental and Regulatory Matters

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws may impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of hazardous or toxic materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to released hazardous or toxic materials. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require corrective or other expenditures. In connection with our current or prior ownership or operation of hotels, we potentially may be liable for various environmental costs or liabilities. Although currently we are not aware of any material environmental claims pending or threatened against us, we can offer no assurance that a material environmental claim will not be asserted against us in the future.

Employees

As of February 21, 2018, we had 205 employees, of which 198 work in the United States, including our regional offices in Miami and San Diego. We had 7 employees located in our offices in London and Amsterdam. None of Host’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The number of employees referenced above does not include the hotel employees of our three hotels in Brazil, which, while technically Host employees, are under the direct supervision and control of our third-party hotel managers. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not manage employees at our consolidated hotels, we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. For a discussion of these relationships, see Part I Item 1A. “Risk Factors—We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”

Employees at certain of our third-party managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and renewal on a regular basis. For a discussion of these relationships, see Part I Item 1A. “Risk Factors—We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”

Where to Find Additional Information

The address of our principal executive office is 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland, 20817. Our phone number is 240-744-1000. We maintain an internet website at: www.hosthotels.com. Through our website, we make available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with, or furnished to, the SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The public also may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

Our website also is a key source of important information about us. We routinely post to the Investor Relations section of our website important information about our business, our operating results and our financial condition and prospects, including, for example, information about material acquisitions and dispositions, our earnings releases and certain supplemental financial information to our earnings releases. We also post to our website copies of investor presentations and we update those presentations periodically, which also contain important information about us. The website has a Governance page in the Our Company section that includes, among other things, copies of our Bylaws, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for each standing committee of Host Inc.’s Board of Directors, which currently include the Audit Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Copies of these charters and policies, Host Inc.’s Bylaws and Host L.P.’s partnership agreement also are available in print to stockholders and unitholders upon request to Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, Attn: Secretary. Please note that the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, any document, unless expressly incorporated by reference therein.








