Item 1.Business

Host Inc. was
incorporated as a Maryland corporation in 1998 and operates as a self-managed and self-administered REIT. Host Inc. owns properties and conducts operations through Host L.P., of which Host Inc. is the sole general partner and in which it holds
approximately 98.6% of the partnership interests (“OP units”) as of December 31, 2012. The remaining approximate 1.4% partnership interests are owned by various unaffiliated limited partners. Host Inc. has the exclusive and
complete responsibility for Host L.P.’s day-to-day management and control.

As of February 25, 2013, our
consolidated lodging portfolio consists of 118 primarily luxury and upper-upscale hotels containing approximately 62,600 rooms, with the majority located in the United States, and 15 properties located outside of the U.S. in Canada, New Zealand,
Chile, Australia, Mexico and Brazil. We also are developing two hotels in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In addition, we own non-controlling interests in two international joint ventures: a joint venture in Europe, which owns 19 luxury and upper upscale
hotels with approximately 6,100 rooms in France, Italy, Spain, The Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Poland and Germany; and a joint venture in Asia/Pacific, which owns one hotel in Australia and minority interests in two operating hotels in
India and five additional hotels in India currently under development. Our other real estate joint ventures include the development of a 225-room Hyatt Place in Nashville, Tennessee, and the development of a 131–unit vacation ownership project
in Maui, Hawaii adjacent to our Hyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa.







The Lodging Industry

The lodging industry in the United States consists of private and public entities that operate in an extremely diversified market under a variety of brand names. The lodging industry has several key
participants:



•Owners– own the hotel and typically enter into an agreement for an independent third party to manage the hotel. These properties may be
branded and operated under the manager’s brand or branded under a franchise agreement and operated by the franchisee or by an independent hotel manager. The properties also may be operated as an independent hotel by an independent hotel
manager.



•Owner/Managers– own the hotel and operate the property with their own management team. These properties may be branded under a franchise
agreement, operated as an independent hotel or operated under the owner’s brand. We are prohibited from operating and managing hotels under applicable REIT rules.



•Franchisors– own a brand or brands and strive to grow their revenues by expanding the number of hotels in their franchise system.
Franchisors provide their hotels with brand recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems for the franchised hotels.



•Franchisor/Managers– own a brand or brands and also operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner or franchisee.



•Managers– operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner, but do not, themselves, own a brand. The hotels may be operated under a franchise
agreement or as an independent hotel.

The hotel manager is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the
hotel, including the employment of hotel staff, the determination of room rates, the development of sales and marketing plans, the preparation of operating and capital expenditure budgets and the preparation of financial reports for the owner. They
typically receive fees based on the revenues and profitability of the hotel.

Revenue per available room (“RevPAR”)
is an operational measure commonly used in the hotel industry to evaluate hotel performance. RevPAR represents the product of the average daily room rate (“ADR”) charged and the average daily occupancy achieved, but excludes other revenue
generated by a hotel property, such as food and beverage, parking and other revenues. ADR reflects the average rate charged by hotels. Average rates can be influenced by, among other things, demand, previously negotiated contracts, the overall mix
of business and new supply in a given market.

Our industry is influenced by the cyclical relationship between the supply of
and demand for hotel rooms. Lodging demand growth typically is related to the vitality of the overall economy, in addition to local market factors that stimulate travel to specific destinations. In particular, economic indicators such as GDP growth,
business investment and employment growth are some of the primary drivers of lodging demand. Between 2003 and 2007, broad growth in the economy led to increases in demand. However, the global recession of 2008 through 2009 resulted in a considerable
decline in both consumer and business spending and a severe decline in demand within the lodging industry. While lodging demand has not recovered fully from the steep declines in those years, the gradual recovery that began in 2010 has
continued through 2012, led by transient demand from business and leisure travelers. We expect demand to continue to improve in 2013, though the rate of growth may be affected by uncertainty in the direction of both the domestic and global economy.

Lodging supply growth generally is driven by overall lodging demand, as extended periods of strong demand growth tend to
encourage new development. However, the rate of supply growth also is influenced by a number of additional factors, including the availability of capital, interest rates, construction costs and unique market considerations. The relatively long
lead-time required to complete the development of hotels makes supply growth easier to forecast than demand growth, but increases the volatility of the cyclical behavior of the lodging industry. As illustrated in the charts below, at different
points in the cycle, demand may increase when there is no new supply or supply may grow when demand is declining. The decline in lodging demand during the recession of 2008 through







2009 and the lack of available financing for new hotel construction caused a significant reduction in hotel development. As a result, supply growth was relatively low in 2010 through 2012, and we
expect growth through 2013 to continue to be below the historical growth rate of 2% (based on data from Smith Travel Research over the past 25 years).

We anticipate that demand growth will exceed supply growth in the near term, resulting in continued RevPAR growth, which is consistent with analysis prepared by PKF Hospitality Research. Occupancy levels
in the upper-upscale market are currently close to their 15-year average. Therefore, while there is still potential for occupancy growth, we believe RevPAR growth will primarily be driven by increases in average room rate. However, the pace of
economic recovery and general market uncertainty will continue to impact negatively the pace of improvement in the industry. Therefore, there can be no assurance that any increases in hotel revenues or earnings at our properties or improvement in
margins will continue for any number of reasons, including those listed above.

The charts below detail the historical supply,
demand and RevPAR growth for the U.S. lodging industry and for the upper upscale segment for 2008 to 2012 and forecast data for 2013. Our portfolio primarily consists of upper upscale hotels and, accordingly, its performance is best understood in
comparison to the upper upscale segment rather than the entire industry.

U.S. Lodging Industry Supply, Demand and RevPAR
Growth











U.S. Upper Upscale Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth





Business Strategy

Our primary long-term business objective is to provide superior total returns to our equity holders through a combination of appreciation in asset values, growth in earnings and dividend distributions. To
achieve this objective, we seek to:



•drive operating results at our properties through aggressive asset management;



•acquire properties in urban and resort/conference destinations that are operated by leading management companies. We will continue to focus on target
markets and gateway cities (such as New York, Washington, D.C., Boston, Miami, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego and Seattle), which we believe have strong demand generators that appeal to multiple customer segments and have high
barriers to entry that limit new supply. While our focus will remain primarily on luxury and upper upscale properties, we will remain opportunistic and may acquire or develop hotels in other lodging segments or markets;



•strategically invest in major redevelopment and return on investment (“ROI”) projects in order to maximize the inherent value in our
portfolio;



•maintain a strong balance sheet with a low leverage level and balanced debt maturities in order to minimize our cost of capital and to maximize our
financial flexibility in order to take advantage of opportunities throughout the lodging cycle;



•expand our global portfolio holdings and revenue sources through joint ventures or direct acquisitions that diversify our investments; and



•recycle capital through the disposition of assets to better align our portfolio within our target gateway markets. We also may opportunistically
dispose of hotels to take advantage of market conditions or in situations where the hotels are at a competitive risk.







Acquisitions and New Development.Our acquisition strategy focuses
on acquiring hotels at attractive yields that exceed our cost of capital in our target markets. These markets consist of gateway cities in the U.S. and in key international cities that are positioned to attract premium corporate, leisure and
international travelers, while, at the same time, have significant barriers to entry. Based on historical trends, we believe these markets will have favorable long-term supply and demand dynamics and consequently better potential for revenue growth.
In the U.S., we will focus primarily on acquiring upper upscale and luxury hotels and secondarily, developing midscale and upscale hotels with strategic partners in these target markets. Our efforts in Europe will be to acquire upper upscale and
luxury hotels in our target markets, such as London, Paris and Munich. In the Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions, we will concentrate on both the acquisition of upper upscale and luxury hotels and the development of midscale and upscale hotels
in our target markets, such as Australia and Brazil.

Redevelopment and Return on Investment Projects.We pursue
opportunities to enhance asset value by completing select capital improvements outside the scope of recurring renewal and replacement capital expenditures. These projects are designed to take advantage of changing market conditions and the favorable
location of our properties to enhance customer satisfaction and increase profitability. We evaluate our capital expenditure projects based on their economic and environmental impact. In collaboration with our hotel managers, we evaluate new products
and systems designed to yield predictable and targeted results, while improving overall energy efficiency and reducing water consumption. Examples include in-room and central energy management systems, lighting retrofits, low flow plumbing fixtures
and intelligent landscape irrigation systems.

Redevelopment projects.These projects are designed to optimally position
our hotels within their markets and competitive set. Redevelopment projects include extensive renovations of guest rooms, including bathrooms, lobbies, food and beverage outlets, expanding ballroom and meeting rooms, and major mechanical system
upgrades.

Targeted Return on Investment Projects.These ROI projects often are smaller and focused on specific areas,
such as converting unprofitable or underutilized space into meeting space or adding guestrooms. We also target projects that improve utility efficiency through the implementation and adoption of proven sustainable technologies.

Value enhancement capital projects.These projects identify and execute strategies that seek to maximize the highest and best
use of all aspects of our hotels. These projects include the development of timeshare or condominium units on excess land, or the acquisition of air rights or development entitlements that add value to our portfolio currently or in the event that we
sell the hotel.

Acquisition projects.In conjunction with the acquisition of a property, we prepare capital and
operational improvement plans designed to improve profitability and enhance the guest experience. These projects may include required renewal and replacement projects, significant redevelopment and even re-branding of the property and represent a
key component of our decision to invest in a hotel that are typically completed within two to three years.

Asset
Management.As Host Inc. is the nation’s largest lodging REIT with a diverse portfolio of properties, we are in a unique position to work with our managers to maximize revenues, while minimizing operating costs. The size and
composition of our portfolio and our affiliation with most of the leading operators and brands in the industry allow us to benchmark similar hotels and identify best practices and efficiencies that can be implemented at our properties, all of which
improve the long-term profitability of the hotel.

A key component of our asset management strategy is maintaining the high
standards of product quality of our properties. We work closely with our managers to ensure that renewal and replacement expenditures are spent efficiently in order to maximize the profitability of the hotel. Typically, room refurbishments occur at
intervals of approximately seven years, but the timing may vary based on the type of property and equipment being replaced. These refurbishments generally are divided into the following types: soft goods, case goods, bathroom and







infrastructure. Soft goods include items such as carpeting, bed spreads, curtains and wall vinyl and may require more frequent updates in order to maintain brand quality standards. Case goods
include items such as dressers, desks, couches, restaurant and meeting room chairs and tables and generally are not replaced as frequently. Bathroom renovations range from refresh of vinyl and paint to full renovation and replacement of tile,
vanity, lighting and plumbing fixtures. Infrastructure includes the physical plant of the hotel, including the roof, elevators, façade and fire systems, which are subject to regular maintenance and then replaced at the end of their useful
lives.

Capital structure and liquidity profile.In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, Host
Inc. is required to distribute 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) to its stockholders and, as a result, generally relies on external sources of capital to finance growth. We use a variety of debt and equity instruments to fund
our external growth, including senior notes and mortgage debt, exchangeable debentures, common and preferred stock offerings, issuances of Host L.P. partnership units and joint ventures/limited partnerships to take advantage of the prevailing market
conditions. While we may issue debt at any time, management believes it is prudent, over time, to target a leverage ratio of approximately 3.0x debt-to-EBITDA. Consistent with this strategy, we have significantly improved our credit statistics over
the past several years. We believe that lower leverage reduces our overall cost of capital and our earnings volatility and increases our access to capital, thereby providing us with the necessary flexibility to take advantage of opportunities
throughout the lodging cycle, which we consider a key competitive advantage.

We also seek to structure our debt profile to
allow us to access different forms of financing, primarily senior notes and exchangeable debentures, as well as mortgage debt, particularly outside of the U.S. when debt is priced reasonably. Generally, this means we look to minimize the number of
assets that are encumbered by mortgage debt, minimize near-term maturities and maintain a balanced maturity schedule.

Joint Ventures.We expect to continue to utilize joint ventures to finance external growth. We believe joint
ventures provide a significant means to access external capital and spread the inherent risk of hotel ownership. Our primary focus for joint ventures is in international markets, which helps to diversify exposure to market risk.

Dispositions.Our disposition strategy is aligned with our overall portfolio focus to reallocate our investments to target
gateway markets. Generally, our dispositions will be focused on secondary or tertiary markets, or as part of our strategy to limit our total investment within individual markets. We may dispose of assets in our primary markets through direct sales
or through the creation of joint ventures when we have the opportunity to capitalize on value enhancement strategies and apply the proceeds to other business objectives. Additionally, we will dispose of properties where we believe the potential for
growth is constrained or on properties with significant capital expenditure requirements where we do not believe we would generate a significant return on the investment. Proceeds from dispositions are deployed to repay debt or fund acquisitions and
ROI/redevelopment projects.

Corporate Responsibility

Host’s corporate responsibility strategy integrates fiscal, environmental and social elements at both the corporate and portfolio levels. Our corporate responsibility program focuses on the following
themes and objectives:



•Responsible Investment: further consider sustainability-related risks and opportunities during the development and acquisition processes and
throughout the ownership period;



•Environmental Stewardship: collaborate with and support our hotel managers to reduce overall carbon emissions, energy and water consumption and
waste stream within our portfolio; and



•Corporate Citizenship: strengthen the local communities where we do business through financial support, partnership, volunteerism and
coordination with our hotel managers.

Management and Governance. Our corporate responsibility
program is managed by our Corporate Responsibility team and governed by our Board of Directors’ Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.

Operating Structure

Host Inc. operates through an umbrella partnership
structure in which substantially all of its assets are held by Host L.P., of which Host Inc. is the sole general partner and holds approximately 98.6% of the OP units as of







December 31, 2012. A REIT is a corporation that has elected to be treated as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and that meets certain
ownership, organizational and operating requirements set forth under the Code. In general, through payments of dividends to stockholders, a REIT is permitted to reduce or eliminate federal income taxes at the corporate level. Each OP unit owned by
holders other than Host Inc. is redeemable, at the option of the holder, for an amount of cash equal to the market value of one share of Host Inc. common stock multiplied by a factor of 1.021494 (rather than a conversion factor of 1 share/OP unit
that existed prior to the December 2009 stock dividend). Host Inc. has the right to acquire any OP unit offered for redemption directly from the holder in exchange for 1.021494 shares of Host Inc. common stock, instead of Host L.P. redeeming such OP
unit for cash. Additionally, for every share of common stock issued by Host Inc., Host L.P. will issue .97895 OP units to Host Inc. As of December 31, 2012, non-controlling limited partners held 9.9 million OP units, which were convertible
into 10.1 million Host Inc. common shares. Assuming that all OP units held by non-controlling limited partners were converted into common shares, there would have been 734.7 million common shares of Host Inc. outstanding at
December 31, 2012.

Our operating structure is as follows:





Because Host Inc. has elected to be treated as a REIT, certain tax laws limit the amount of
“non-qualifying” income that Host Inc. and Host L.P. can earn, including income derived directly from the operation of hotels. As a result, we lease substantially all of our consolidated properties to certain of our subsidiaries designated
as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”) for federal income tax purposes or to third party lessees. Our TRS are subject to income tax and are not limited as to the amount of non-qualifying income they can generate. The lessees and our TRS
enter into agreements with third parties to manage the operations of the hotels. Our TRS also may own assets engaging in other activities that produce non-qualifying income, such as the development of timeshare or condominium units, subject to
certain restrictions. The difference between the hotels’ net operating cash flow and the aggregate rents paid to Host L.P. is retained by our TRS as taxable income. Accordingly, the net effect of the TRS leases is that, while, as a REIT, Host
Inc. generally is exempt from federal income tax to the extent that it meets specific distribution requirements, among other REIT requirements, a portion of the net operating cash flow from our properties is subject to federal, state and, if
applicable, foreign income tax.







Our Hotel Properties

Overview.We have 118 hotels in our portfolio, primarily consisting of luxury and upper upscale properties. These hotels generally are located in the central business districts of major
cities, near airports and resort/conference destinations that, because of their locations, typically benefit from barriers to entry for new supply. These properties typically include meeting and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and
lounges, swimming pools, exercise facilities and/or spas, gift shops and parking facilities, the combination of which enable them to serve business, leisure and group travelers. Forty-two of our hotels, representing approximately 59% of our
revenues, have in excess of 500 rooms. The average age of our properties is 28 years, although substantially all of the properties have benefited from significant renovations or major additions, as well as regularly scheduled renewal and replacement
and other capital improvements.

The following table details our consolidated hotel portfolio by brand as of February 25,
2013:



NumberPercentage ofBrandof HotelsRoomsRevenues(1)Marriott6234,73352%Ritz-Carlton83,0208Starwood:Westin136,90010Sheraton75,4449W31,3873St. Regis12321The Luxury Collection1139—Hyatt86,37211Hilton/Embassy Suites31,0412Swissôtel16611Four Seasons26081Fairmont14502Delta1374—Accor:ibis3455—Novotel4752—11862,568100



(1)Percentage of revenues is based on 2012 revenues. No individual property contributed more than 6% of total revenues in 2012.







Hotel Properties. The following table sets forth the location and number
of rooms at our hotels as of February 25, 2013:



LocationRoomsArizonaScottsdale Marriott Suites Old Town243Scottsdale Marriott at McDowell Mountains266The Ritz-Carlton, Phoenix281The Westin Kierland Resort & Spa732CaliforniaCoronado Island Marriott Resort & Spa (1)300Costa Mesa Marriott253JW Marriott Desert Springs Resort & Spa884Hyatt Regency San Francisco Airport789Manchester Grand Hyatt San Diego (1)1,628Manhattan Beach Marriott (1)385Marina del Rey Marriott (1)370Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa532Newport Beach Marriott Bayview254San Diego Marriott Marquis & Marina (1)1,360San Diego Marriott Mission Valley350San Francisco Marriott Fisherman’s Wharf285San Francisco Marriott Marquis (1)1,499San Ramon Marriott (1)368Santa Clara Marriott (1)759Sheraton San Diego Hotel & Marina (1)1,053The Ritz-Carlton, Marina del Rey (1)304The Ritz-Carlton, San Francisco336The Westin Los Angeles Airport (1)740The Westin Mission Hills Resort & Spa512The Westin South Coast Plaza, Costa Mesa (2)390ColoradoDenver Marriott Tech Center Hotel628Denver Marriott West (1)305The Westin Denver Downtown430FloridaTampa Airport Marriott (1)298Harbor Beach Marriott Resort & Spa (1)(3)650Hilton Singer Island Oceanfront Resort222Miami Marriott Biscayne Bay (1)600Orlando World Center Marriott2,000Tampa Marriott Waterside Hotel & Marina719The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island446The Ritz-Carlton, Naples450The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort, Naples295GeorgiaAtlanta Marriott Suites Midtown (1)254Atlanta Marriott Perimeter Center341Four Seasons Hotel Atlanta244

LocationRoomsGeorgia (cont.)Grand Hyatt Atlanta in Buckhead439JW Marriott Atlanta Buckhead371The Ritz-Carlton, Buckhead510The Westin Buckhead Atlanta365HawaiiHyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa806The Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui450IllinoisChicago Marriott Suites Downers Grove254Chicago Marriott O’Hare470Chicago Marriott Suites O’Hare256Courtyard Chicago Downtown/River North337Embassy Suites Chicago-Downtown/ Lakefront455Swissôtel Chicago661The Westin Chicago River North424IndianaSheraton Indianapolis Hotel at Keystone Crossing (1)395The Westin Indianapolis573LouisianaNew Orleans Marriott1,329MarylandGaithersburg Marriott Washingtonian Center284MassachusettsBoston Marriott Copley Place (1)1,144Hyatt Regency Cambridge, Overlooking Boston,470Sheraton Boston Hotel1,220Sheraton Needham Hotel247The Westin Waltham-Boston346MinnesotaMinneapolis Marriott City Center (1)583MissouriKansas City Airport Marriott (1)384New HampshireCourtyard Nashua245New JerseyNewark Liberty International Airport Marriott (1)591Park Ridge Marriott (1)289Sheraton Parsippany Hotel370New YorkNew York Marriott Downtown497New York Marriott Marquis (4)1,957Sheraton New York Times Square Hotel1,780The Westin New York Grand Central774W New York693W New York – Union Square (3)270









LocationRoomsNorth CarolinaGreensboro-High Point Marriott Airport (1)299OhioDayton Marriott399The Westin Cincinnati (1)456OregonPortland Marriott Downtown Waterfront503PennsylvaniaFour Seasons Hotel Philadelphia364Philadelphia Airport Marriott (1)419Philadelphia Marriott Downtown (3)1,408TennesseeMemphis Marriott Downtown600TexasDallas/Addison Marriott Quorum by the Galleria547Houston Airport Marriott at George Bush Intercontinental (1)565Houston Marriott at the Texas Medical Center (1)394JW Marriott Houston515San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter (1)1,001San Antonio Marriott Riverwalk (1)512The St. Regis Houston (1)232VirginiaHyatt Regency Reston518Key Bridge Marriott (1)582Residence Inn Arlington Pentagon City299The Ritz-Carlton, Tysons Corner (1)398Washington Dulles Airport Marriott (1)368Westfields Marriott Washington Dulles336WashingtonSeattle Airport Marriott459The Westin Seattle891W Seattle424

LocationRoomsWashington, D.C.Grand Hyatt Washington888Hyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill834JW Marriott Washington D.C.772The Westin Georgetown, Washington, D.C.267Washington Marriott at Metro Center459AustraliaHilton Melbourne South Wharf (1) (3)364BrazilJW Marriott Hotel Rio de Janeiro245CanadaCalgary Marriott384Delta Meadowvale Hotel & Conference Centre374Toronto Marriott Downtown Eaton Centre Hotel (1)461ChileSan Cristobal Tower, Santiago139Sheraton Santiago Hotel & Convention Center379MexicoJW Marriott Hotel Mexico City (3)312New ZealandNovotel Auckland Ellerslie147ibis Ellerslie100Novotel Wellington139ibis Wellington200Novotel Queenstown Lakeside273Novotel Christchurch Cathedral Square (1)193ibis Christchurch (1)155Total62,568





(1)The land on which this hotel is built is leased from a third party under one or more lease agreements.

(2)The land, building and improvements are leased from a third party under a long-term lease agreement.

(3)This property is not wholly owned.

(4)This property is subject to a ground lease under which we have the option to purchase the land for an incremental payment of $19.9 million through 2017.







Competition

The lodging industry is highly competitive. Competition often is specific to individual markets and is based on a
number of factors, including location, brand, guest facilities and amenities, level of service, room rates and the quality of accommodations. The lodging industry generally is viewed as consisting of six different segments, each of which caters to a
discrete set of customer tastes and needs: luxury, upper upscale, upscale, midscale (with and without food and beverage service) and economy. The classification of a property is based on lodging industry standards, which take into consideration many
factors such as guest facilities and amenities, level of service and quality of accommodations. Most of our hotels operate in urban and resort markets either as luxury properties under such brand names as Fairmont®, Four Seasons®, Grand Hyatt®, JW Marriott®, Ritz-Carlton®, St. Regis®, The Luxury
Collection®and W®, or as upper upscale properties under such brand names as Embassy Suites®, Hilton®, Hyatt®, Le Méridien®, Marriott Executive
Apartments®, Marriott Marquis®, Marriott Suites®, Pullman®, Renaissance®, Sheraton®, Swissôtel®and Westin®. We also may selectively invest in upscale and midscale properties such as Courtyard by Marriott®, Crowne Plaza®, Four Points
by Sheraton®, Hyatt Place®, ibis®, Novotel®or Residence Inn by Marriott®, particularly in international
markets.


While our hotels primarily compete with other
hotels in the luxury and upper upscale segments, they also may compete with hotels in other lower-tier segments.

We believe
our properties enjoy competitive advantages associated with the hotel brands under which they operate. The international marketing programs and reservation systems of these brands, combined with the strong management systems and expertise they
provide, should enable our properties to perform favorably in terms of both occupancy and room rates. In addition, repeat guest business is enhanced by guest reward or guest recognition programs offered by most of these brands. Nevertheless, many
management contracts for our hotels do not prohibit our managers from converting, franchising or developing other hotel properties in our markets. As a result, our hotels compete with other hotels that our managers may own, invest in, manage or
franchise.

We also compete with other REITs and other public and private investors for the acquisition of new properties and
investment opportunities, in both domestic and international markets, as we attempt to position our portfolio to take best advantage of changes in markets and travel patterns of our customers.

Seasonality

Our hotel
sales traditionally have experienced moderate seasonality, which varies based on the individual property and the region. Historically, our reporting cycle for hotel revenues for our domestic Marriott-managed hotels reflects 16 or 17 weeks of results
in the fourth quarter compared to 12 weeks for each of the first three quarters of the year. For our non-Marriott managed hotels, the first quarter includes two months of operations, the second and third quarters include three months of operations
and the fourth quarter includes four months of operations. Hotel sales have averaged approximately 20%, 26%, 22% and 32% for the first, second, third and fourth quarters, respectively, under our historic reporting calendar. However, Marriott
announced that beginning January 1, 2013 it will convert from a 52-53 week fiscal year to a 12-month calendar year. As a result, we will report our hotel results based on a 3-month quarterly reporting cycle beginning with the first quarter of
2013. Based on this new reporting cycle, we estimate that hotel sales will be 24% in the first quarter, 27% in the second quarter, 24% in the third quarter and 25% in the fourth quarter. See Part II Item 7. “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Reporting Periods.”



1This annual report contains registered trademarks that are the exclusive property of their respective owners, which are companies other than us. None of the owners of
these trademarks, their affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, agents or employees, has or will have any responsibility or liability for any information contained in this annual report.







Other Real Estate Investments

European Joint Venture.We own a general and limited partnership interest in a joint venture in Europe (“Euro JV”)
with APG Strategic Real Estate Pool NV, an affiliate of a Dutch Pension Fund, and Jasmine Hotels Pte Ltd, an affiliate of the real estate investment company of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd (“GIC RE”). The Euro
JV consists of two funds, which we refer to as Euro JV Fund I and Euro JV Fund II. We hold a 32.0% limited partner interest and a 0.1% general partner interest in Euro JV Fund I and a 33.3% limited partner interest and a 0.1% general partner
interest in Euro JV Fund II. The Euro JV also acts as the asset manager for the hotels owned by the Euro JV, as well as one hotel in Paris, France, in exchange for a fee. As of February 25, 2013, the Euro JV owns the following hotels:



HotelCityCountryRooms/UnitsFund I:Hotel Arts BarcelonaBarcelonaSpain483The Westin Palace, MadridMadridSpain467Sheraton Roma Hotel & Conference CenterRomeItaly640The Westin Palace, MilanMilanItaly227The Westin Europa & ReginaVeniceItaly185Renaissance Brussels HotelBrusselsBelgium262Brussels Marriott HotelBrusselsBelgium221Marriott Executive ApartmentsBrusselsBelgium56Crowne Plaza Hotel Amsterdam City CentreAmsterdamThe Netherlands270Sheraton Skyline Hotel & Conference CentreHayesUnited Kingdom350Sheraton Warsaw Hotel & TowersWarsawPoland350Fund I total rooms3,511Fund II:Paris Marriott Rive Gauche Hotel & Conference CenterParisFrance757Pullman Bercy ParisParisFrance396Renaissance Paris La Defense HotelParisFrance327Courtyard Paris La Defense West – ColombesParisFrance150Renaissance Paris Vendome HotelParisFrance97Renaissance Amsterdam HotelAmsterdamThe Netherlands402Le Méridien PiccadillyLondonUnited Kingdom280Le Méridien Grand Hotel NurembergNurembergGermany192Fund II total rooms2,601Total European joint venture rooms6,112

Asian Joint Venture.We own a 25% interest in a joint venture (the
“Asia/Pacific JV”) with RECO Hotels JV Private Limited, an affiliate of GIC RE. Our Asia/Pacific JV owns the 278-room Four Points by Sheraton Perth in Perth, Australia and a 36% non-controlling interest in a joint venture in India with
Accor S.A. and InterGlobe Enterprises Limited that owns two hotels, with an additional five hotels under development, totaling 1,750 rooms for an estimated $325 million of construction costs. The seven Indian hotels will be operated under the
Pullman, Novotel and ibis brands.

Other U.S. Real Estate Investments.Our other domestic real estate
investments include the following:



•We have a non-controlling 50% interest in a joint venture with White Lodging Services to develop the 255-room Hyatt Place in Nashville, Tennessee. The
hotel is expected to open in late 2013.



•We have a non-controlling 67% interest in a joint venture with Hyatt Residential Group to develop, sell and operate a 131-unit vacation ownership
project in Maui, Hawaii adjacent to our Hyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa. Construction has begun and the project is expected to be completed in late 2014.







Consolidated International Operations

Excluding hotels owned by our European and Asian joint ventures, as of December 31, 2012, we own one property in Australia, one
property in Brazil, three in Canada, one in Mexico, two in Chile, and seven in New Zealand, which collectively contain approximately 3,865 rooms. Approximately 5%, 5%, and 3% of our revenues were attributed to the operations of these properties in
2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Environmental and Regulatory Matters

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real
property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws may impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic
substances. In addition, certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of hazardous or toxic materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal
injury associated with exposure to released hazardous or toxic materials. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require corrective or
other expenditures. In connection with our current or prior ownership or operation of hotels, we potentially may be liable for various environmental costs or liabilities. Although currently we are not aware of any material environmental claims
pending or threatened against us, we can offer no assurance that a material environmental claim will not be asserted against us in the future.

Operational Agreements

All of our hotels are managed by third parties pursuant to management or operating agreements, with some of those hotels also subject to
separate license agreements addressing matters pertaining to operation under the designated brand. Under these agreements, the managers generally have sole responsibility and exclusive authority for all activities necessary for the day-to-day
operation of the hotels, including establishing room rates, securing and processing reservations, procuring inventories, supplies and services, providing periodic inspection and consultation visits to the hotels by the managers’ technical and
operational experts and promoting and publicizing the hotels. The managers provide all managerial and other employees for the hotels, review the operation and maintenance of the hotels, prepare reports, budgets and projections, and provide other
administrative and accounting support services to the hotels. These support services include planning and policy services, divisional financial services, product planning and development, employee staffing and training, corporate executive
management and certain in-house legal services. We have certain approval rights over budgets, capital expenditures, significant leases and contractual commitments, and various other matters.

General Terms and Provisions– Agreements governing the management and operation of our hotels typically include the terms
described below:



•Term and fees for operational services. The initial term of our management and operating agreements generally is 15 to 25 years, with one or
more renewal terms at the option of the manager. The majority of our management agreements condition the manager’s right to exercise options for specified renewal terms upon the satisfaction of specified economic performance criteria. The
manager typically receives compensation in the form of a base management fee, which is calculated as a percentage (generally 2-3%) of annual gross revenues, and an incentive management fee, which typically is calculated as a percentage (generally
10-20%) of operating profit after the owner has received a priority return on its investment in the hotel. In the case of our Starwood-managed hotels, the base management fee only is 1% of annual gross revenues, but that amount is supplemented by
license fees payable to Starwood under a separate license agreement (as described below).



•License services. In the case of our Starwood-managed hotels, the operation of the hotels is subject to separate license agreements addressing
matters pertaining to the designated brand, including rights to use trademarks, service marks and logos, matters relating to compliance with certain brand standards and policies, and the provision of certain system programs and centralized services.
Although the term of these license agreements with Starwood generally is coterminous with the corresponding operating







agreements, the license agreements contemplate the potential for continued brand affiliation even in the event of a termination of the operating agreement. As noted above, the Starwood licensors
receive compensation in the form of license fees (generally 5% of gross revenues attributable to room sales and 2% of gross revenues attributable to food and beverage sales), which amounts supplement the lower base management fee of 1% of gross
revenues received by Starwood under the operating agreements.



•Chain or system programs and services. Managers are required to provide chain or system programs and services generally that are furnished on a
centralized basis. Such services include the development and operation of certain computer systems and reservation services, regional or other centralized management and administrative services, marketing and sales programs and services, training
and other personnel services, and other centralized or regional services as may be determined to be more efficiently performed on a centralized, regional or group basis rather than on an individual hotel basis. Costs and expenses incurred in
providing these chain or system programs and services generally are allocated on a cost reimbursement basis among all hotels managed by the manager or its affiliates or that otherwise benefit from these services.



•Working capital and fixed asset supplies. We are required to maintain working capital for each hotel and to fund the cost of certain fixed asset
supplies (for example, linen, china, glassware, silver and uniforms). We also are responsible for providing funds to meet the cash needs for hotel operations if at any time the funds available from working capital are insufficient to meet the
financial requirements of the hotels. For certain hotels, the working capital accounts which would otherwise be maintained by the managers for each of such hotels are maintained on a pooled basis, with managers being authorized to make withdrawals
from such pooled account as otherwise contemplated with respect to working capital in accordance with the provisions of the management or operating agreements.





•



Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements



•Building alterations, improvements and renewals. The managers are required to prepare an annual estimate of the expenditures necessary for major
repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and elevators of each hotel, along with alterations and improvements to the hotel as are
required, in the manager’s reasonable judgment, to keep the hotel in a competitive, efficient and economical operating condition that is consistent with brand standards. We generally have approval rights as to such budgets and expenditures,
which we review and approve based on our manager’s recommendations and on our judgment. Expenditures for these major repairs and improvements affecting the hotel building typically are funded directly by owners, although (as noted above) our
agreements with Starwood contemplate that certain such expenditures may be funded from the reserve account.







•Treatment of additional owner funding. As additional owner funding becomes necessary either for expenditures generally funded from the FF&E
replacement funds, or for any major repairs or improvements to the hotel building which may be required to be funded directly by owners, most of our agreements provide for an economic benefit to us through an impact on the calculation of incentive
management fees payable to our managers. One approach frequently utilized at our Marriott-managed hotels is to provide such owner funding through loans which are repaid, with interest, from operational revenues, with the repayment amounts reducing
operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. Another approach typically that is used at our Starwood-managed hotels, as well as with certain expenditures projects at our Marriott-managed hotels, is to treat such owner funding
as an increase to our investment in the hotel, resulting in an increase to owner’s priority return with a corresponding reduction to the amount of operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. For our Starwood-managed
hotels that are subject to the pooled arrangement described above, the amount of any additional reserve account funding is allocated to each of such hotels on a pro rata basis, determined with reference to the net operating income of each hotel and
the total net operating income of all such pooled hotels for the most recent operating year.



•Territorial protections. Certain management and operating agreements impose restrictions for a specified period which limit the manager and its
affiliates from owning, operating or licensing a hotel of the same brand within a specified area. The area restrictions vary with each hotel, from city blocks in urban areas to up to a multi-mile radius from the hotel in other areas.



•Sale of the hotel. Subject to specific agreements as to certain hotels (see below under ‘Special Termination Rights’), we generally
are limited in our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels by the requirement that the transferee assume the related management agreements and meet specified other conditions, including the condition that the transferee not be a
competitor of the manager.



•Performance Termination Rights.In addition to any right to terminate that may arise as a result of a default by the manager, most of our
management and operating agreements include reserved rights by us to terminate management or operating agreements on the basis of the manager’s failure to meet certain performance-based metrics, typically including a specified
threshold return on owner’s investment in the hotel, along with a failure of the hotel to achieve a specified RevPAR performance threshold established with reference to other competitive hotels in the market. Typically, such
performance-based termination rights arise in the event the operator fails to achieve specified performance thresholds over a consecutive two-year period, and are subject to the manager’s ability to ‘cure’ and avoid termination by
payment to us of specified deficiency amounts (or, in some instances, waiver of the right to receive specified future management fees). We have agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to waive certain of these termination rights in exchange
for consideration from a manager or its affiliates, which consideration may include cash compensation or amendments to management agreements.



•Special Termination Rights.In addition to any performance-based or other termination rights set forth in our management and operating
agreements, we have negotiated with Marriott and Starwood specific termination rights as to certain management and operating agreements. While the brand affiliation of a property may increase the value of a hotel, the ability to dispose of a
property unencumbered by a management agreement or even brand affiliation also can increase the value for prospective purchasers. These termination rights can take a number of different forms, including termination of agreements upon sale that leave
the property unencumbered by any agreement; termination upon sale provided that the property continues to be operated under a license or franchise agreement with continued brand affiliation; as well as termination without sale or other condition,
which may require payment of a fee. These termination rights also may restrict the number of agreements that may be terminated over any annual or other period; impose limitations on the number of agreements terminated as measured by EBITDA; require
that a certain number of properties continue to maintain the brand affiliation; or be restricted to a specific pool of assets.







Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had 233 employees, of which 208 work in the United States. We had 25 employees located in our offices in London, Rio de Janeiro, Amsterdam and Singapore. None of
Host’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, other than those working in our office in Rio de Janeiro. These employee numbers do not include the 522 hotel employees of our New Zealand and Australian properties, which also
are Host employees, as they are under the direct supervision and control of our third-party hotel managers. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not manage
employees at our consolidated hotels, we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. We believe relations with these employees are positive. For a
discussion of these relationships, see Part I Item 1A. “Risk Factors – We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”

Employees at certain of our third-party managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and
renewal on a regular basis. For a discussion of these relationships, see Part I Item 1A. “Risk Factors – We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized
labor.”

Where to Find Additional Information

The address of our principal executive office is 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland, 20817. Our phone number is 240-744-1000. We maintain an internet website at: www.hosthotels.com.
Through our website, we make available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The public also may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

Our website also is a key source of important information about us. We routinely post to the Investor Relations section of our website important information about our business, our operating results and
our financial condition and prospects, including, for example, information about material acquisitions and dispositions, our earnings releases and certain supplemental financial information related or complimentary thereto. The website also has a
Governance page in the Investor Relations section that includes, among other things, copies of our By-laws, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Conflicts of Interest Policy for our directors, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy
for employees, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for each standing committee of Host Inc.’s Board of Directors, which currently are the Audit Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee and the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee. Copies of these charters and policies, Host Inc.’s By-laws and Host L.P.’s partnership agreement also are available in print to stockholders and unitholders upon request to Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., 6903
Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, Attn: Secretary. Please note that the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, any document, unless expressly incorporated by
reference therein.



