Item  1.Business

Host Inc. was incorporated as a Maryland corporation in 1998 and operates as a self-managed and self-administered REIT. Host Inc. owns properties and conducts operations through Host L.P., of which Host Inc. is the sole general partner and in which it holds approximately 99% of the partnership interests (“OP units”) as of December 31, 2014. The remaining partnership interests are owned by various unaffiliated limited partners. Host Inc. has the exclusive and complete responsibility for Host L.P.’s day-to-day management and control.

As of February 20, 2015, our consolidated lodging portfolio consists of 114 primarily luxury and upper-upscale hotels containing approximately 59,000 rooms, with the majority located in the United States, and with 17 of the properties located outside of the U.S. in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Mexico and New Zealand. In addition, we own non-controlling interests in two international joint ventures: a joint venture in Europe, which owns 19 luxury and upper upscale hotels with approximately 6,500 rooms in Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom; and a joint venture in Asia/Pacific, which owns one upscale hotel in Australia and minority interests in three operating hotels, two upscale and one midscale, in India and four additional hotels in India currently under development. We also hold non-controlling investments in two hotels and a timeshare joint venture.

Business Strategy

Our goal is to be the premier lodging real estate company and to generate superior total returns for our stockholders through a combination of appreciation in asset values, growth in earnings and dividend distributions.  To achieve this objective, we seek to:

·Own a high-quality portfolio of hotel real estate primarily located in our target markets;

·Create value in our existing portfolio through well-integrated asset management and capital investment;

·Allocate and recycle capital with discipline to earn returns that exceed our cost of capital;

·Maintain a flexible capital structure that fosters external growth even through a downturn; and

·Align our organizational structure with our business objectives to be an employer of choice and a responsible corporate citizen.






Portfolio Management.We will focus on refining our portfolio to include multiple types of hotels, but in a defined set of target markets that meet our investment criteria. This will provide the opportunity for a more comprehensive understanding of our target markets which we believe will increase the probability of earning premium returns over time.

·Ourtarget marketswill be those locations which we believe have strong demand generators that appeal to multiple customer segments, achieve premium rates and relatively higher barriers to entry that limit new supply. While we continually will evaluate and refine our target market list, we generally focus on domestic gateway cities and resort markets, including New York, Washington, D.C., Boston, Florida, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego, Seattle, Houston and Hawaii. These target markets historically have outperformed the overall U.S. lodging industry in terms of real revenue per available room (“RevPAR”) growth, although there can be no assurances that this outperformance will continue for any number of reasons, including changes in travel patterns or supply in those markets. We also will continue investing internationally, either through direct acquisitions or through joint ventures with strategic partners. We believe international expansion provides us the opportunity to earn favorable risk-adjusted returns and diversify our portfolio. Our international target markets include Western Europe (through our European joint venture), Australia, Singapore, Mexico and Brazil. We believe these markets will continue to see more favorable supply/demand and pricing dynamics in the future. The following chart details the long-term performance of our domestic target markets over the past 20 years:



·Establishing a deeper footholdthrough a concentrated market approach is intended to create efficiencies and increase our knowledge of local market dynamics, data and relationships.  We will continue primarily to own upper upscale and luxury hotels that we believe benefit from multiple segments of demand. However, we also will broaden the types of assets we consider owning to include urban, select-service hotels and lifestyle or “boutique” hotels which appeal to the transient customer. We believe focusing on several different hotel types within our target markets will provide the opportunity to capitalize on the evolving nature of the hotel customer.

·We will strive forbalanced market exposure.Our general goal is that 80% to 90% of our portfolio revenues will come from hotels located within our target markets, which will allow us the flexibility to make opportunistic investments in alternative locations and to continue to hold certain legacy assets that we expect will perform well over time.

·Throughour disciplined approach to acquisitions and new developmentwe seek to achieve unlevered returns that exceed our cost of capital. Generally, we will look to invest capital early in the lodging cycle and benefit from the subsequent industry-wide increase in values. As we move further into the lodging cycle, we will increase our focus on opportunities where we believe we can add value through redevelopment, repositioning or new development.

·We will look toreallocate our portfolio toward target marketsthrough our disposition strategy.  Generally, our dispositions will be focused on secondary or tertiary markets. Additionally, we will dispose of properties where we believe the potential for growth is constrained or of properties with significant capital expenditures requirements where we do not believe we would generate a significant return on the investment. Prior to the sale of assets, we will look for opportunities to increase the sales price, which may include value-added capital expenditures projects and ground lease






extensions. We also will look to take advantage of opportunities to capture attractive pricing for hotels that have management contract flexibility. We also may dispose of assets in our target markets through direct sales or through the creation of joint ventures when we have the opportunity to capitalize on value enhancement strategies and apply the proceeds to other business objectives.

Asset Management.As the owner of a large and diverse portfolio of properties, we believe we are in a unique position to work with our managers to drive operating profit through revenue growth strategies and cost control initiatives. The size and composition of our portfolio and our affiliation with most of the leading brands and operators in the industry allow us to benchmark similar hotels and identify best practices and efficiencies that can improve long-term profitability. We also carefully evaluate and monitor our property agreements, including our management and franchise agreements, in an effort to obtain flexibility and drive overall value.  Ultimately, our goal is to differentiate our assets within their competitive market, drive operating performance and enhance the value of the real estate.

·Work with leading brands, as well as independent operators,in the lodging industry and actively seek to diversify within our portfolio. We will look to capitalize on situations where we have management agreement flexibility to appropriately match a hotel and its operator, brand and contract terms.  This will include new relationships with independent operators that may be an improved fit for smaller or unbranded products.

·Drive revenue growthby conducting detailed strategic reviews with our managers on market pricing and segment mix to develop the appropriate group/transient mix and market share targets for each property. We also work with our managers to ensure that their brands’ on-line presence addresses a broad customer base, including group customers and overseas travelers.

·Enhance profitabilityby using our proprietary business intelligence system to benchmark and monitor hotel performance and cost controls and complete deep-dive analytic reviews to identify new opportunities that could increase profit.

·Improve contract flexibilitythrough the extension or purchase of ground leases or the restructuring of management agreements to enhance overall value.

·Strategically position food & beverage outletsthrough initiatives such as combining bars and restaurants to create a more relevant experience for consumers throughout the day or outsourcing outlets when a viable partnership may improve profitability and increase our customer base.

Capital Investment.We focus on creating and mining value from our existing portfolio through capital investments and value enhancement initiatives. These projects may include significant changes to rooms, public space and meeting space, as well as a repositioning of the property under a different operator or brand. We work closely with our managers to time these projects so as to attempt to reduce disruption to operations and environmental impacts.

·Value Enhancement Initiativesseek to achieve the highest and best use of our properties. These projects may include the development of timeshare, office space or condominium units on excess land, redevelopment or expansion of existing retail space, and the acquisition of air rights or development entitlements.

·Redevelopment and Return on Investment Projectsare designed to take advantage of changing market conditions and the favorable location of our properties and seek to increase profitability and enhance customer satisfaction. Our capital expenditures projects generally fall into the following categories:

Redevelopment projects.These projects are designed to improve the positioning of our hotels within their markets and competitive set. Redevelopment projects include extensive renovations of guest rooms and bathrooms, lobbies, food and beverage outlets; expanding and/or extensive renovation of ballroom and meeting rooms; major mechanical system upgrades, and green building initiatives and certifications.

Targeted Return on Investment (ROI) projects.These projects often are smaller and focused on increasing space profitability or lowering net operating costs. Typical ROI projects include converting unprofitable or underutilized space into meeting space, adding guestrooms, and implementing energy and water conservation measures such as LED lighting, guestroom water efficient fixtures, and building automation systems.

·Acquisition Capital Expenditures Projectsare completed in connection with the acquisition of a property.  For each new acquisition, we prepare capital and operational improvement plans designed to improve profitability and enhance the guest experience. These projects may include required renewal and replacement projects, significant redevelopment and even re-branding of the property and represent a key component of our decision to invest in a hotel. These projects typically are completed within two to three years of acquisition.






·Renewal and Replacement Capital Expendituresare designed to maintain the quality and competitiveness of our hotel properties.  Typically, room renovations occur at intervals of approximately seven years, but the timing may vary based on the type of property and equipment being renovated. These renovations generally are divided into the following types: soft goods, case goods, bathroom and infrastructure. Soft goods include items such as carpeting, bed spreads, curtains and wall vinyl and may require more frequent updates in order to maintain brand quality standards. Case goods include items such as dressers, desks, couches, restaurant and meeting room chairs and tables; which generally are not replaced as frequently. Bathroom renovations include the replacement of tile, vanity, lighting and plumbing fixtures. Infrastructure includes the physical plant of the hotel, including the roof, elevators/escalators, façade, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems and fire systems.

Financing Strategy.In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, Host Inc. is required to distribute 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain, but including taxable income recognized for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive cash) to its stockholders and, as a result, generally relies on external sources of capital, as well as cash from operations, to finance growth. We use a variety of debt and equity instruments to fund our external growth, including senior notes and mortgage debt, exchangeable debentures, common and preferred stock offerings, issuances of OP units and joint ventures/limited partnerships to take advantage of the prevailing market conditions.

·Management believes that astrong balance sheetis a key competitive advantage that affords us a lower cost of capital and positions us for external growth. While we may issue debt at any time, generally we will target a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio, (or “Leverage Ratio,” as defined in our credit facility) of 2.5x to 3.0x and to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior unsecured debt. We believe the investment grade rating and lower leverage will deliver the most consistent access to capital, thereby providing us with the necessary flexibility to take advantage of opportunities throughout the lodging cycle.

·We seek tostructure our debt profile to allow us to access different forms of financing, primarily senior notes and exchangeable debentures, as well as mortgage debt (particularly outside of the U.S. when debt is priced reasonably and can be denominated in the local currency). Generally, this means we look to minimize the number of assets that are encumbered by mortgage debt, minimize near-term maturities and maintain a balanced maturity schedule. We may seek to issue debt in foreign currencies to match the proceeds with their intended use in order to reduce the potential costs of international investing related to currency fluctuation and local taxes. Depending on market conditions, we also may utilize variable rate debt which can provide greater protection during a decline in the lodging industry. Generally we will target our floating rate debt to be 20% to 35% of total debt, in part depending on our outlook on future interest rates.

·We expect tocontinue to utilize joint venturesto finance external growth. We believe joint ventures provide a significant means to access external capital and spread the inherent risk of hotel ownership. Our primary focus for joint ventures is in international markets, which helps to diversify exposure to market risk.

Corporate Responsibility.Our corporate responsibility program is managed by our Corporate Responsibility team, led by our Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Managing Director, Global Development, Design and Construction and overseen by our CEO and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. Our corporate responsibility program focuses on the management of the environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities for our business and is organized around the following themes and objectives:

●Responsible Investment:We incorporate sustainability into our asset management approach. During the acquisition of new properties, we assess both sustainability opportunities and climate change related risks as part of our due diligence process. During the ownership of our properties, we seek to invest in proven sustainability practices in our redevelopment and ROI projects that can enhance asset value while also improving environmental performance.

●Environmental Stewardship:We seek to improve the environmental footprint of our properties.  We have established goals to reduce energy use and carbon emissions from 2008 levels by 12 percent and water use by 15 percent by 2017 across our portfolio. As part of our asset management approach, we work closely with our hotel managers to monitor environmental performance and support implementation of operational best practices.  In our redevelopment and ROI projects, we target specific environmental efficiency projects, equipment upgrades and replacements that reduce energy and water consumption and offer appropriate returns on investment.

●Corporate Citizenship:We are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen and strengthening our local communities. We do this through financial support, community engagement, volunteer service, and industry collaboration. Our approach to corporate citizenship is reinforced by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and periodic engagement with key stakeholders to understand their corporate responsibility priorities.






The Lodging Industry

The lodging industry in the United States consists of private and public entities that operate in an extremely diversified market under a variety of brand names. The lodging industry has several key participants:

●Owners—own the hotel and typically enter into an agreement for an independent third party to manage the hotel. These properties may be branded and operated under the manager’s brand or branded under a franchise agreement and operated by the franchisee or by an independent hotel manager. The properties also may be operated as an independent hotel by an independent hotel manager.

●Owner/Managers—own the hotel and operate the property with their own management team. These properties may be branded under a franchise agreement, operated as an independent hotel or operated under the owner’s brand. We are prohibited from operating and managing hotels under applicable REIT rules.

●Franchisors—own a brand or brands and strive to grow their revenues by expanding the number of hotels in their franchise system. Franchisors provide their hotels with brand recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems for the franchised hotels.

●Franchisor/Managers—own a brand or brands and also operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner or franchisee.

●Managers—operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner, but do not, themselves, own a brand. The hotels may be operated under a franchise agreement or as an independent hotel.

The hotel manager is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the hotel, including the employment of hotel staff, the determination of room rates, the development of sales and marketing plans, the preparation of operating and capital expenditures budgets and the preparation of financial reports for the owner. The hotel manager typically receives fees based on the revenues and profitability of the hotel.

Supply and Demand Trends.Our industry is influenced by the cyclical relationship between the supply of and demand for hotel rooms. Lodging demand growth typically is related to the vitality of the overall economy, in addition to local market factors that stimulate travel to specific destinations. In particular, trends in economic indicators such as GDP growth, business investment and employment growth are key indicators of the relative strength of lodging demand.

Lodging supply growth generally is driven by overall lodging demand, as extended periods of strong demand growth tend to encourage new development. However, the rate of supply growth also is influenced by a number of additional factors, including the availability of capital, interest rates, construction costs and unique market considerations. The relatively long lead-time required to complete the development of hotels makes supply growth easier to forecast than demand growth, but increases the volatility of the cyclical behavior of the lodging industry. As illustrated in the charts below for the U.S. lodging industry, at different points in the cycle, demand may increase when there is no new supply or supply may grow when demand is declining.






Our portfolio primarily consists of upper upscale hotels and, accordingly, its performance is best understood in comparison to the upper upscale segment rather than the entire industry. The charts below detail the historical supply, demand and RevPAR growth for the U.S. lodging industry and for the U.S. upper upscale segment for 2010 to 2014 and forecast data for 2015:

U.S. Lodging Industry Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth





U.S. Upper Upscale Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth












Managers and Operational Agreements

All of our hotels are managed by third parties pursuant to management or operating agreements, with some of such hotels also subject to separate license agreements addressing matters pertaining to operation under the designated brand. Under these agreements, the managers generally have sole responsibility and exclusive authority for all activities necessary for the day-to-day operation of the hotels, including establishing room rates, securing and processing reservations, procuring inventories, supplies and services, providing periodic inspection and consultation visits to the hotels by the managers’ technical and operational experts and promoting and publicizing the hotels. The managers provide all managerial and other employees for the hotels, review the operation and maintenance of the hotels, prepare reports, budgets and projections, and provide other administrative and accounting support services to the hotels. These support services include planning and policy services, divisional financial services, product planning and development, employee staffing and training, corporate executive management and certain in-house legal services. We have certain approval rights over budgets, capital expenditures, significant leases and contractual commitments, and various other matters.

These management agreements can affect the value of the property associated with it based on the pricing and flexibility of the agreement. In addition to customary performance termination rights, certain of our agreements with Starwood and Marriott have limited special termination rights, as detailed below, that can lend to the flexibility of the agreement. We often will seek to negotiate the terms of an agreement to provide greater value to the associated asset. See “Termination Rights” and “Special Termination Rights”described below.

General Terms and Provisions– Agreements governing the management and operation of our hotels typically include the terms described below:

●Term and fees for operational services. The initial term of our management and operating agreements generally is 15 to 25 years, with one or more renewal terms at the option of the manager. The majority of our management agreements condition the manager’s right to exercise options for specified renewal terms upon the satisfaction of specified economic performance criteria. The manager typically receives compensation in the form of a base management fee, which is calculated as a percentage (generally 2-3%) of annual gross revenues, and an incentive management fee, which typically is calculated as a percentage (generally 10-20%) of operating profit after the owner has received a priority return on its investment in the hotel. In the case of our Starwood-managed hotels, the base management fee is only 1% of annual gross revenues, but that amount is supplemented by license fees payable to Starwood under a separate license agreement (as described below).

●License services. In the case of our Starwood-managed hotels, the operation of the hotels is governed by separate license agreements addressing matters pertaining to the designated brand, including rights to use trademarks, service marks and logos, matters relating to compliance with certain brand standards and policies, and the provision of certain system programs and centralized services. Although the term of these license agreements with Starwood generally is coterminous with the corresponding operating agreements, the license agreements contemplate the potential for continued brand affiliation even in the event of a termination of the operating agreement. As noted above, the Starwood licensors receive compensation in the form of license fees (generally 5% of gross revenues attributable to room sales and 2% of gross revenues attributable to food and beverage sales), which amounts supplement the lower base management fee of 1% of gross revenues received by Starwood under the operating agreements.

●Chain or system programs and services. Managers are required to provide chain or system programs and services generally that are furnished on a centralized basis. Such services include the development and operation of certain computer systems and reservation services, regional or other centralized management and administrative services, marketing and sales programs and services, training and other personnel services, and other centralized or regional services as may be determined to be more efficiently performed on a centralized, regional or group basis rather than on an individual hotel basis. Costs and expenses incurred in providing these chain or system programs and services generally are allocated on a cost reimbursement basis among all hotels managed by the manager or its affiliates or that otherwise benefit from these services.

●Working capital and fixed asset supplies. We are required to maintain working capital for each hotel and to fund the cost of certain fixed asset supplies (for example, linen, china, glassware, silver and uniforms). We also are responsible for providing funds to meet the cash needs for hotel operations if at any time the funds available from working capital are insufficient to meet the financial requirements of the hotels. For certain hotels, the working capital accounts which would otherwise be maintained by the managers for each of such hotels are maintained on a pooled basis, with managers being authorized to make withdrawals from such pooled account as otherwise contemplated with respect to working capital in accordance with the provisions of the management or operating agreements.

●Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements. We are required to provide the managers with all furniture, fixtures and equipment (“FF&E”) necessary for the operation of the hotels (including funding any required FF&E replacements). On an annual basis, the managers prepare budgets for FF&E to be acquired and certain routine repairs and maintenance to be performed in the next year and an estimate of the necessary funds, which budgets are subject to our review and approval. For purposes of funding such expenditures, a specified percentage (typically 5%) of the gross revenues of each hotel is deposited by the manager into an escrow or reserve account in our name, to which the manager has access. In the case of






our Starwood-managed hotels, our operating agreements contemplate that this reserve account also may be used to fund the cost of certain major repairs and improvements affecting the hotel building (as described below). For certain of our Marriott-managed hotels, we have entered into an agreement with Marriott to allow for such expenditures to be funded from one pooled reserve account, rather than funds being deposited into separate reserve accounts at each hotel, with the minimum required balance maintained on an ongoing basis in that pooled reserve account being significantly below the amount that would have been maintained otherwise in such separate hotel reserve accounts. For certain of our Starwood-managed hotels, the periodic reserve fund contributions, which otherwise would be deposited into reserve accounts maintained by managers for each hotel, are distributed to us and, as to this pool of hotels, we are responsible for providing funding of expenditures which otherwise would be funded from reserve accounts for each of the subject hotels.

●Building alterations, improvements and renewals. The managers are required to prepare an annual estimate of the expenditures necessary for major repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and elevators of each hotel, along with alterations and improvements to the hotel as are required, in the manager’s reasonable judgment, to keep the hotel in a competitive, efficient and economical operating condition that is consistent with brand standards. We generally have approval rights as to such budgets and expenditures, which we review and approve based on our manager’s recommendations and on our judgment. Expenditures for these major repairs and improvements affecting the hotel building typically are funded directly by owners, although (as noted above) our agreements with Starwood contemplate that certain such expenditures may be funded from the reserve account.

●Treatment of additional owner funding. As additional owner funding becomes necessary either for expenditures generally funded from the FF&E replacement funds, or for any major repairs or improvements to the hotel building which may be required to be funded directly by owners, most of our agreements provide for an economic benefit to us through an impact on the calculation of incentive management fees payable to our managers. One approach frequently utilized at our Marriott-managed hotels is to provide such owner funding through loans which are repaid, with interest, from operational revenues, with the repayment amounts reducing operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. Another approach that is used at our Starwood-managed hotels, as well as with certain capital expenditures projects at our Marriott-managed hotels, is to treat such owner funding as an increase to our investment in the hotel, resulting in an increase to owner’s priority return with a corresponding reduction to the amount of operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. For our Starwood-managed hotels that are subject to the pooled arrangement described above, the amount of any additional reserve account funding is allocated to each of such hotels on a pro rata basis, determined with reference to the net operating income of each hotel and the total net operating income of all such pooled hotels for the most recent operating year.

●Territorial protections. Certain management and operating agreements impose restrictions for a specified period which limit the manager and its affiliates from owning, operating or licensing a hotel of the same brand within a specified area. The area restrictions vary with each hotel, from city blocks in urban areas to up to a multi-mile radius from the hotel in other areas.

●Sale of the hotel. Subject to specific agreements as to certain hotels (see below under ‘Special Termination Rights’), we generally are limited in our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels by the requirement that the transferee assume the related management agreements and meet specified other conditions, including the condition that the transferee not be a competitor of the manager.

●Performance Termination Rights.In addition to any right to terminate that may arise as a result of a default by the manager, most of our management and operating agreements include reserved rights by us to terminate management or operating agreements on the basis of the manager’s failure to meet certain performance-based metrics, typically including a specified threshold return on owner’s investment in the hotel, along with a failure of the hotel to achieve a specified RevPAR performance threshold established with reference to other competitive hotels in the market. Typically, such performance-based termination rights arise in the event the operator fails to achieve specified performance thresholds over a consecutive two-year period, and are subject to the manager’s ability to ‘cure’ and avoid termination by payment to us of specified deficiency amounts (or, in some instances, waiver of the right to receive specified future management fees). We have agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to waive certain of these termination rights in exchange for consideration from a manager or its affiliates, which consideration may include cash compensation or amendments to management agreements.

●Special Termination Rights.In addition to any performance-based or other termination rights set forth in our management and operating agreements, we have specific negotiated termination rights as to certain management and operating agreements. With respect to our Marriott portfolio, subject to certain timing and other limitations, these rights include termination rights applicable to 15 properties. With respect to our Starwood portfolio, subject to certain timing and other limitations, these rights include termination rights applicable to 10 properties. We also have similar termination rights applicable to 8 other properties. While the brand affiliation of a property may increase the value of a hotel, the ability to dispose of a property unencumbered by a management agreement, or even brand affiliation, also can increase the value for






prospective purchasers. These termination rights can take a number of different forms, including termination of agreements upon sale that leave the property unencumbered by any agreement; termination upon sale provided that the property continues to be operated under a license or franchise agreement with continued brand affiliation; as well as termination without sale or other condition, which may require the payment of a fee. These termination rights also may restrict the number of agreements that may be terminated over any annual or other period; impose limitations on the number of agreements terminated as measured by EBITDA; require that a certain number of properties continue to maintain the brand affiliation; or be restricted to a specific pool of assets.

Operating Structure

Our operating structure is as follows:





Because Host Inc. has elected to be treated as a REIT, certain tax laws limit the amount of “non-qualifying” income that Host Inc. and Host L.P. can earn, including income derived directly from the operation of hotels. As a result, we lease substantially all of our consolidated properties to certain of our subsidiaries designated as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”) for federal income tax purposes or to third party lessees. Our TRS are subject to income tax and are not limited as to the amount of non-qualifying income they can generate. Our TRS enter into agreements with third parties to manage the operations of the hotels. Our TRS also may own assets engaging in other activities that produce non-qualifying income, such as the development of timeshare or condominium units, subject to certain restrictions. The difference between the hotels’ net operating cash flow and the aggregate rents paid to Host L.P. is retained by our TRS as taxable income. Accordingly, the net effect of the TRS leases is that, while, as a REIT, Host Inc. generally does not pay federal and state income tax to the extent that it meets specific distribution requirements, among other REIT requirements, a portion of the net operating cash flow from our properties is subject to federal, state and, if applicable, foreign income tax.






Our Consolidated Hotel Portfolio

As of February 20, 2015, we owned a portfolio of 114 hotel properties, of which 97 are located in the United States and 17 are located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Mexico and New Zealand. Our consolidated hotels located outside the United States collectively contain approximately 4,200 rooms. Approximately 5% of our revenues were attributed to the operations of these foreign properties in each of 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

The lodging industry is viewed as consisting of six different segments, each of which caters to a discrete set of customer tastes and needs: luxury, upper upscale, upscale, midscale (with and without food and beverage service) and economy. Our portfolio primarily consists of luxury and upper upscale properties that are located in the central business districts of major cities, near airports and resort/conference destinations, which are operated under internationally recognized brand names such as Marriott, Hyatt, Starwood and Accor. There also has been a trend towards more specialized, smaller boutique hotels that are customized towards a particular customer profile. Generally, these properties will be operated by an independent third party and either will have no brand affiliation, or will be associated with a major brand, while maintaining the majority of its independent identity (which we refer to as “soft-branded” properties). We have expanded our investments to include independent and soft-branded properties where we believe that the manager and independent identity is the best fit for the hotel.

Revenues earned at our hotels consist of three broad categories: rooms, food and beverage, and other revenues. While approximately 65% of our revenue is generated from room sales, many of our properties feature a variety of amenities that help drive demand and profitability. Our hotels typically include meeting and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and lounges, swimming pools, exercise facilities and/or spas, gift shops and parking facilities, the combination of which enable them to serve business, leisure and group travelers.

Thirty-nine of our consolidated hotels, representing approximately 62% of our revenues, have in excess of 500 rooms.  The average age of our properties is 32 years, although substantially all of the properties have benefited from significant renovations or major additions, as well as regularly scheduled renewal and replacement and other capital improvements.

By Brand.The following table details our consolidated hotel portfolio by brand as of February 20, 2015:



NumberPercentage ofBrandof HotelsRoomsRevenues(1)Marriott5430,01748.5%Ritz-Carlton72,6847.6Starwood:Westin136,90711.4Sheraton86,0449.6W31,3903.2St. Regis12320.6The Luxury Collection11390.1Hyatt96,80912.1Hilton/Embassy Suites31,0531.6Swissôtel16611.0Fairmont14501.8Accor:ibis47110.3Novotel58620.7Other/Independent41,1241.511459,083100___________

(1)Percentage of revenues is based on 2014 revenues. No individual property contributed more than 7% of total revenues in 2014.










By Location.The following table details the location and number of rooms at our consolidated hotels as of February 20, 2015:

LocationRoomsLocationRooms

ArizonaIllinois

Scottsdale Marriott Suites Old Town243Chicago Marriott Suites Downers Grove254

Scottsdale Marriott at McDowell Mountains266Chicago Marriott O'Hare470

The Ritz-Carlton, Phoenix281Chicago Marriott Suites O’Hare256

The Westin Kierland Resort & Spa732Courtyard Chicago Downtown/River North337

CaliforniaEmbassy Suites Chicago-Downtown/Lakefront455

Axiom Hotel151Swissôtel Chicago661

Coronado Island Marriott Resort & Spa(1)300The Westin Chicago River North424

Costa Mesa Marriott253Indiana

JW Marriott Desert Springs Resort & Spa884Sheraton Indianapolis Hotel at Keystone Crossing395

Hyatt Regency San Francisco Airport789The Westin Indianapolis575

Manchester Grand Hyatt San Diego(1)1,628Louisiana

Manhattan Beach Marriott(1)385New Orleans Marriott1,329

Marina del Rey Marriott(1)370Maryland

Marriott Marquis San Diego Marina(1)1,360Gaithersburg Marriott Washingtonian Center284

Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa532Massachusetts

Newport Beach Marriott Bayview254Boston Marriott Copley Place1,144

San Diego Marriott Mission Valley350Hyatt Regency Cambridge, Overlooking Boston470

San Francisco Marriott Fisherman’s Wharf285Sheraton Boston Hotel1,220

San Francisco Marriott Marquis(1)1,500Sheraton Needham Hotel247

San Ramon Marriott(1)368The Westin Waltham-Boston351

Santa Clara Marriott(1)759Minnesota

Sheraton San Diego Hotel & Marina(1)1,053Minneapolis Marriott City Center(1)583

The Ritz-Carlton, Marina del Rey(1)304Missouri

The Westin Los Angeles Airport(1)740Kansas City Airport Marriott(1)384

The Westin Mission Hills Resort & Spa512New Jersey

The Westin South Coast Plaza, Costa Mesa(2)390Newark Liberty International Airport Marriott(1)591

ColoradoPark Ridge Marriott(1)289

Denver Marriott Tech Center Hotel628Sheraton Parsippany Hotel370

Denver Marriott West(1)305New York

The Westin Denver Downtown430New York Marriott Downtown497

FloridaNew York Marriott Marquis1,957

Tampa Airport Marriott(1)298Sheraton New York Times Square Hotel1,780

Harbor Beach Marriott Resort & Spa(1)(3)650The Westin New York Grand Central774

Hilton Singer Island Oceanfront Resort222W New York696

Miami Marriott Biscayne Bay(1)600W New York – Union Square(3)270

Orlando World Center Marriott2,003Ohio

The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island446The Westin Cincinnati(1)456

The Ritz-Carlton, Naples450Pennsylvania

The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort, Naples295Four Seasons Hotel Philadelphia357

YVE Hotel Miami242Philadelphia Airport Marriott(1)419

GeorgiaTennessee

Atlanta Marriott Suites Midtown(1)254Sheraton Memphis Downtown600

Atlanta Marriott Perimeter Center341Texas

Grand Hyatt Atlanta in Buckhead439Houston Airport Marriott at George Bush

JW Marriott Atlanta Buckhead371Intercontinental(1) (3)565

The Ritz-Carlton, Buckhead510Houston Marriott at the Texas Medical Center(1)394

The Westin Buckhead Atlanta365JW Marriott Houston515

HawaiiSan Antonio Marriott Rivercenter(1)1,001

Hyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa806San Antonio Marriott Riverwalk(1)512

The Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui450The St. Regis Houston232

Hyatt Place Waikiki Beach426








VirginiaBrazil (continued)Hyatt Regency Reston518JW Marriott Hotel Rio de Janeiro245Key Bridge Marriott(1)582Novotel Rio de Janeiro Parque Olimpico149Residence Inn Arlington Pentagon City299CanadaThe Ritz-Carlton, Tysons Corner(1)398Calgary Marriott Downtown384Washington Dulles Airport Marriott(1)368Delta Meadowvale Hotel & Conference Centre374Westfields Marriott Washington Dulles336Toronto Marriott Downtown Eaton Centre Hotel(1)461WashingtonChileSeattle Airport Marriott459San Cristobal Tower, Santiago139The Westin Seattle891Sheraton Santiago Hotel & Convention Center379W Seattle424MexicoWashington, D.C.JW Marriott Hotel Mexico City(3)312Grand Hyatt Washington897New ZealandHyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill836Novotel Auckland Ellerslie147JW Marriott Washington D.C.772ibis Ellerslie100The Westin Georgetown, Washington, D.C.267Novotel Wellington139Washington Marriott at Metro Center459ibis Wellington200AustraliaNovotel Queenstown Lakeside273Hilton Melbourne South Wharf(1) (3)376Novotel Christchurch Cathedral Square(1)154Brazilibis Christchurch(1)155ibis Rio de Janeiro Parque Olimpico256Total59,083___________

(1)The land on which this hotel is built is leased from a third party under one or more lease agreements.

(2)The land, building and improvements are leased from a third party under a long-term lease agreement.

(3)This property is not wholly owned.



By Market:Since 2004, the percentage of revenues from our target markets in the U.S. and internationally has increased from approximately 65% to 80%. The following graph summarizes the composition of our consolidated hotels by market based on percentage of 2014 revenues (excluding properties owned by our European and Asia/Pacific joint ventures and sold hotels):








By Class:Historically, we have focused on the upper-upscale and luxury asset classes, as we believe they have broad appeal for both the leisure and business customer.  Going forward, we also may broaden our property classes into others, such as urban select-service properties. The following graph summarizes the composition of the 114 hotels in our consolidated portfolio based on the percentage of 2014 revenues represented by our luxury, upper upscale and other categories (excluding properties owned by our European and Asia/Pacific joint ventures and sold hotels):







By Type:Our portfolio focus historically has been on gateway markets in urban and resort/conference destinations.  The following graph summarizes the composition of the 114 hotels in our consolidated portfolio based on the percentage of 2014 revenues represented by our property type categories (excluding properties owned by our European and Asia/Pacific joint ventures and sold hotels):







Other Real Estate Interests

In addition to our consolidated hotel portfolio, we also own non-controlling interests in several entities that, as of February 20, 2015, owned, or owned an interest in, 25 hotel properties, as detailed below. The operations of the properties owned by these entities






are not consolidated and are included in equity in earnings in our consolidated results of operations. See Part II Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 3. Investments in Affiliates.”

European Joint Venture.We own a general and limited partnership interest in a joint venture in Europe (“Euro JV”) with APG Strategic Real Estate Pool NV, an affiliate of a Dutch Pension Fund, and Jasmine Hotels Pte Ltd, an affiliate of the real estate investment company of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd (“GIC RE”). The Euro JV consists of two funds, which we refer to as Euro JV Fund I and Euro JV Fund II. We hold a 32.0% limited partner interest and a 0.1% general partner interest in Euro JV Fund I and a 33.3% limited partner interest and a 0.1% general partner interest in Euro JV Fund II. A subsidiary of Host L.P. acts as the asset manager for the hotels owned by the Euro JV, as well as for one hotel in Paris, France, in exchange for a fee. As of February 20, 2015, the Euro JV owns the following hotels:



HotelCityCountryRooms/UnitsFund I:Hotel Arts BarcelonaBarcelonaSpain483The Westin Palace, MadridMadridSpain467Sheraton Roma Hotel & Conference CenterRomeItaly640The Westin Palace, MilanMilanItaly227The Westin Europa & ReginaVeniceItaly185Renaissance Brussels HotelBrusselsBelgium262Brussels Marriott HotelBrusselsBelgium221Marriott Executive ApartmentsBrusselsBelgium56Crowne Plaza Hotel Amsterdam City CentreAmsterdamThe Netherlands270Sheraton Warsaw Hotel & TowersWarsawPoland350Fund I total rooms3,161Fund II:Paris Marriott Rive Gauche Hotel & Conference CenterParisFrance757Pullman Bercy ParisParisFrance396Renaissance Paris La Defense HotelParisFrance327Renaissance Paris Vendome HotelParisFrance97Renaissance Amsterdam HotelAmsterdamThe Netherlands402Le Méridien PiccadillyLondonUnited Kingdom280Le Méridien Grand Hotel NurembergNurembergGermany192Sheraton Stockholm HotelStockholmSweden465Sheraton Berlin Grand Hotel EsplanadeBerlinGermany394Fund II total rooms3,310Total European joint venture rooms6,471

Asia/Pacific Joint Venture. We own a 25% interest in a joint venture in Asia (the “Asia/Pacific JV”) with RECO Hotels JV Private Limited, an affiliate of GIC RE. Our Asia/Pacific JV owns the 278-room Four Points by Sheraton Perth in Perth, Australia and a 36% non-controlling interest in a joint venture in India with Accor S.A. and InterGlobe Enterprises Limited that owns three hotels, with an additional four hotels under development, totaling 1,750 rooms. The seven hotels in India are or will be operated under the Pullman, Novotel and ibis brands.

Other U.S. Real Estate Investments.Our other domestic real estate investments include the following:

●We have a non-controlling 50% interest in a joint venture with White Lodging Services that owns the 255-room Hyatt Place Nashville Downtown in Tennessee.

●We have a non-controlling 67% interest in a joint venture with Hyatt Residential Group, a subsidiary of Interval Leisure Group, to develop, sell and operate the Hyatt Ka’anapali Beach, A Hyatt Residence Club, a 131-unit vacation ownership project in Maui, Hawaii adjacent to our Hyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa. The project opened in December 2014.

●We have a non-controlling 11% interest in a joint venture that owns the Philadelphia Marriott Downtown following our January 10, 2014 sale of an 89% interest in the property.






Competition

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®


(1)



We believe our properties enjoy competitive advantages associated with the hotel brands under which they operate. The international marketing programs and reservation systems of these brands, combined with the strong management systems and expertise they provide, should enable our properties to perform favorably in terms of both occupancy and room rates. In addition, repeat guest business is enhanced by guest reward or guest recognition programs offered by most of these brands.

We also compete with other REITs and other public and private investors for the acquisition of new properties and investment opportunities, both in domestic and international markets, as we attempt to position our portfolio to take best advantage of changes in markets and travel patterns of our customers.

Seasonality

Our hotel sales traditionally have experienced moderate seasonality, which varies based on the individual property and the region. Hotel sales for our consolidated portfolio averaged approximately 24%, 27%, 24% and 25% for the first, second, third and fourth calendar quarters, respectively, in 2014.

Environmental and Regulatory Matters

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws may impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of hazardous or toxic materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to released hazardous or toxic materials. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require corrective or other expenditures. In connection with our current or prior ownership or operation of hotels, we potentially may be liable for various environmental costs or liabilities. Although currently we are not aware of any material environmental claims pending or threatened against us, we can offer no assurance that a material environmental claim will not be asserted against us in the future.

Employees

As of February 20, 2015 we had 251 employees, of which 228 work in the United States. We had 23 employees located in our offices in London, Amsterdam and Singapore. None of Host’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The number of employees referenced above does not include the hotel employees of our 11 hotels in Brazil, New Zealand and Australia, which, while technically are Host employees, are under the direct supervision and control of our third-party hotel managers. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not manage employees at our consolidated hotels, we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. We believe relations with the employees of these third party managers are positive. For a discussion of these relationships, see Part I Item 1A. “Risk Factors—We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”



1(1)(1)(1)This annual report contains registered trademarks that are the exclusive property of their respective owners, which are companies other than us. None of the owners of these trademarks, their affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, agents or employees, has or will have any responsibility or liability for any information contained in this annual report.






Employees at certain of our third-party managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and renewal on a regular basis. For a discussion of these relationships, see Part I Item 1A. “Risk Factors—We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”

Where to Find Additional Information

The address of our principal executive office is 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland, 20817. Our phone number is 240-744-1000. We maintain an internet website at: www.hosthotels.com. Through our website, we make available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with, or furnished to, the SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The public also may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.

Our website also is a key source of important information about us. We routinely post to the Investor Relations section of our website important information about our business, our operating results and our financial condition and prospects, including, for example, information about material acquisitions and dispositions, our earnings releases and certain supplemental financial information related or complimentary thereto. The website also has a Governance page in the Investor Relations section that includes, among other things, copies of our By-laws, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Conflicts of Interest Policy for our directors, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy for employees, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for each standing committee of Host Inc.’s Board of Directors, which currently include the Audit Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Copies of these charters and policies, Host Inc.’s By-laws and Host L.P.’s partnership agreement also are available in print to stockholders and unitholders upon request to Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, Attn: Secretary. Please note that the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, any document, unless expressly incorporated by reference therein.



