Item 1.Business

Host
Hotels & Resorts, Inc. is a Maryland corporation that operates as a self-managed and self-administered real estate investment trust, or REIT. Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. owns properties and conducts operations through Host
Hotels & Resorts, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, of which Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. is the sole general partner and in which it holds approximately 98% of the partnership interests. In this report, we use the terms
“we” or “our” to refer to Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc. and Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P. together, unless the context indicates otherwise. We also use the term “Host” to specifically refer to Host
Hotels & Resorts, Inc. and the term “Host LP” to refer to Host Hotels & Resorts, L.P. (and its consolidated subsidiaries), in cases where it is important to distinguish between Host and Host LP.

The address of our principal executive office is 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland, 20817. Our phone number is
240-744-1000.

Consolidated Portfolio

As of February 17, 2010, our consolidated lodging portfolio consisted of 110 luxury and upper-upscale hotels containing approximately 61,000 rooms as detailed below:



HotelsRoomsUnited States(1)10358,321Canada41,643Mexico1312Chile2518Total11060,794



(1)Includes properties in 26 states and Washington, D.C.

European Joint Venture

We own a 32.1% interest in a European joint venture that owns 11 luxury and
upper-upscale hotels containing 3,511 rooms. The hotels owned by the European joint venture are located in the following countries:



HotelsRoomsItaly31,053Spain2951Belgium3537United Kingdom1350Poland1350The Netherlands1270Total113,511

We are the general partner of the venture and act as
the asset manager for these hotels, as well as an additional 440- room property in Paris, France in exchange for a fee.

Asian Joint
Venture

We own a 25% interest in an Asian joint venture that currently owns no hotels. However, we currently act as the
asset manager for two hotels totaling 1,001 rooms located in Tokyo, Japan and Sydney, Australia.







Where to Find Additional Information

We maintain an internet website at: www.hosthotels.com. Through our website, we make available free of charge as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).

Our website is also a key source of important information about us. We routinely post to the Investor Relations section of our website important information about our business, our operating results and
our financial condition and prospects, including, for example, information about material acquisitions and dispositions, our earnings releases and certain supplemental financial information related or complimentary thereto. The website also has a
Governance page in the Investor Relations section that includes, among other things, copies of our By-laws, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Conflicts of Interest Policy for directors, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy for
employees, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for each standing committee of our Board of Directors, which currently are the Audit Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Copies of our By-laws and these charters and policies are also available in print to stockholders upon request to Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, Attn: Secretary. Please note that the
information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, any document unless expressly incorporated by reference therein.

The Lodging Industry

The lodging industry in the United States consists of
private and public entities that operate in an extremely diversified market under a variety of brand names. The lodging industry has several key participants:



•Owners—own the hotel and typically enter into an agreement for an independent third party to manage the hotel. These properties may be branded and
operated under the manager’s brand or branded under a franchise agreement and operated by the franchisee or by an independent hotel manager. The properties also may be operated as an independent hotel (unaffiliated with any brand) by an
independent hotel manager. We operate as an owner of lodging properties.



•Owner/Managers—own the hotel and operate the property with their own management team. These properties may be branded under a franchise agreement,
operated as an independent hotel (unaffiliated with any brand) or operated under the owner’s brand. We are restricted from operating and managing hotels under applicable REIT laws.



•Franchisors—own a brand or brands and strive to grow their revenues by expanding the number of hotels in their franchise system. Franchisors
provide their branded hotels with brand recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems.



•Franchisor/Manager—own a brand or brands and also operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner or franchisee.



•Manager—operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner, but do not, themselves, own a brand. The hotels may be operated under a franchise agreement
or as an independent hotel (unaffiliated with any brand).

The hotel manager is responsible for the
day-to-day operation of the hotels, including the employment of hotel staff, the determination of room rates, the development of sales and marketing plans, the preparation of operating and capital expenditure budgets and the preparation of financial
reports for the owner. They typically receive fees based on the revenues and profitability of the hotel.

Our industry is
influenced by the cyclical relationship between the supply of and demand for hotel rooms. Lodging demand growth typically is related to the vitality of the overall economy in addition to local market factors that stimulate travel to specific
destinations. In particular, economic indicators such as GDP growth,







business investment and employment growth are some of the primary drivers of lodging demand. Between 2003 and 2007, broad growth in the economy led to increases in demand. By contrast, slower
economic growth and lower levels of capital investment typically slow the rate of demand growth for the lodging industry. Lodging demand declined significantly in the second half of 2008 as the overall weakness in the U.S. economy, particularly the
turmoil in the credit markets, weakness in the housing market, and volatile energy and commodity costs, resulted in considerable negative pressure on both consumer and business spending. This trend accelerated in 2009, as the global economic
recession caused a significant decline in corporate group and transient lodging demand. While we have seen some signs that lodging demand has begun to stabilize, we believe that the industry will experience a continued decline in revenue until the
key economic indicators discussed above display consistent growth, but that overall occupancy levels will increase slightly from 2009 to 2010.

Lodging supply growth is generally driven by overall lodging demand, as extended periods of strong demand growth tend to encourage new development. However, the rate of supply growth also is influenced by
a number of additional factors, including the availability of capital, interest rates, construction costs and unique market considerations. Additionally, the relatively long lead-time required to complete the development of hotels, while making
supply growth relatively easier to forecast than demand growth, increases the volatility of the cyclical behavior of the lodging industry. As illustrated in the charts below, at different points in the cycle, demand and supply may increase or
decrease in a dissimilar manner such that demand may increase when there is no new supply or supply may grow when demand is declining. Since the second half of 2008, the stress in the credit markets has made financing for new hotel construction
extremely difficult to obtain. This, coupled with the decline in lodging demand due to the global economic recession, has caused a significant reduction in new hotel construction starts. We expect this trend will continue through 2010. We anticipate
that the pace of supply growth will be below historical averages for at least 2010 and 2011, which is consistent with analysis provided by STR Global.







Revenue per available room (“RevPAR”) is an operational measure commonly used in
the hotel industry to evaluate hotel performance. RevPAR represents the product of the average daily room rate charged and the average daily occupancy achieved, but excludes other revenue generated by a hotel property, such as food and beverage,
parking and other guest service revenues. The charts below detail the supply, demand and RevPAR growth for the U.S. lodging industry and for the luxury and upper-upscale segment for 2005 to 2009 based on data provided by STR Global.

U.S. Lodging Industry Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth



Luxury and upper-upscale Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth









Business Strategy

Our primary long-term business objective is to provide superior total returns to our stockholders through a combination of appreciation in asset values and growth in earnings and dividends. To achieve
this objective we seek to:



•Acquire luxury and upper upscale properties in urban and resort/conference destinations that are operated by leading management companies. These
investments will be primarily located in gateway cities, both domestic and international, with significant appeal to multiple customer segments;



•Maximize the value of our portfolio through aggressive asset management and strategic capital allocation;



•Maintain a strong balance sheet with a low leverage level and balanced debt maturities in order to minimize the cost of capital and to maximize our
financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities throughout the lodging business cycle;



•Expand our global portfolio holdings and revenue sources by creating investment funds and joint ventures that diversify our investments, while reducing
market specific risk; and



•Dispose of non-core assets, including hotels that are at a competitive risk or that are located in suburban or slower-growth markets.

Asset Management.As the largest REIT owner of luxury and
upper-upscale properties in the U.S., we are in a unique position to work with the managers of our hotels to maximize revenues while minimizing operating costs. The size and composition of our portfolio and our affiliation with most of the leading
operators and brands in the industry allow us to benchmark similar hotels and identify best practices, evaluate return on investment and repositioning opportunities and identify efficiencies that can be communicated to our managers. Areas of focus
include enhancing revenue management for rooms, food and beverage and other services, reducing operating costs and identifying operating efficiencies, all of which improve the long-term profitability of the hotel.

Another key component of our asset management strategy is our capital expenditure programs. These programs are designed to increase
profitability by maximizing the value of our portfolio and maintaining our high standards for product quality, as well as those of our managers. We explore opportunities to improve the performance of our assets through investing in profit-generating
projects and customer amenities that will improve cash flow. Our asset management and design and construction departments review potential capital investments to ensure that each of our properties is in high-quality physical condition, highly
competitive in the market and consistent with brand standards on a continuing basis. Our capital expenditures generally fall into three broad categories: renewal and replacement expenditures, return on investment (or “ROI”)/repositioning
expenditures and value enhancement projects.

Renewal and replacement expenditures.We work
closely with our managers to ensure that renewal and replacement expenditures are spent efficiently in order to maximize the profitability of the hotel. Typically, room refurbishments occur at intervals of approximately seven years, but the timing
may vary based on the type of property and equipment being replaced. These refurbishments generally are divided into the following types: soft goods, case goods and infrastructure. Soft goods include items such as carpeting, bed spreads, curtains
and wall vinyl and may require more frequent updates in order to maintain brand quality standards. Hard goods include items such as dressers, desks, couches, restaurant and meeting room chairs and tables and are generally not replaced as frequently.
Infrastructure includes the physical plant of the hotel, including the roof, elevators, façade and fire systems, which are regularly maintained and then replaced at the end of their useful lives.

ROI/repositioning expenditures.We pursue opportunities to enhance asset value by completing selective capital
improvements outside the scope of typical renewal and replacement capital expenditures. These projects include, for example, significant repositioning of guest rooms, lobbies or food and beverage platforms and







expanding ballroom, spa or conference facilities. These projects also include green initiatives at our properties designed to increase energy efficiency and decrease our properties’ overall
carbon footprint. In certain instances, these ROI/repositioning projects have coincided with the timing of regular maintenance cycles at the properties where we have used the opportunity to significantly improve and upgrade the hotel. These projects
also are designed to take advantage of changing market conditions and the favorable location of our properties. Examples of these projects include:



•the construction of the 12,000 square foot ballroom at The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island in 2009;



•the construction of the 10,000 square foot ballroom at the Harbor Beach Marriott Resort & Spa, which is scheduled for completion in the first
quarter of 2010;



•the completion of a 62,750 square foot ballroom addition at the Swissôtel Chicago in 2009;



•the construction of an 8,300 square foot meeting space addition and the renovation of over 60,000 square feet of public space and food and beverage
facilities at the San Francisco Marriott in 2008; and



•the construction of new food and beverage facilities, renovation of meeting space and the construction of the new 26,000 square foot Atrium Ballroom at
the Atlanta Marriott Marquis in 2007 and 2008.

Value enhancement projects.    We
seek opportunities to enhance the value of our portfolio by identifying and executing strategies that maximize the highest and best use of all aspects of our properties, such as the development of timeshare or condominium units on excess land, or
the acquisition of air rights or developer entitlements that add value to our portfolio or enhance the value in the event we sell the property.

Acquisitions.Our acquisition strategy primarily focuses on acquiring either directly or through joint ventures, luxury and upper-upscale hotels domestically and
internationally. We evaluate potential opportunities to acquire hotels at attractive yields and at discounts to replacement cost. Our acquisition strategy focuses on:



•properties with locations in key markets and gateway cities with high barriers to entry for prospective competitors with strong demand growth
potential;



•properties operated under premium brand names;



•properties that further diversify our portfolio, both domestically and internationally; and



•acquisitions through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios or single asset transactions.

Domestic Acquisitions







properties available for sale. We also may purchase mortgage debt that is secured by hotel properties or mezzanine debt where we believe we can buy the debt at a discount and earn attractive
returns through principal and interest payments or the eventual ownership of the hotel through foreclosure. We did not complete any domestic acquisitions during 2009.

International Acquisitions.    We established a joint venture in Europe in 2006, which now owns 11 hotels in six countries. We act as the asset manager for these hotels, as well
as an additional hotel in Paris, France. We continue to look for acquisition opportunities in London, Paris, Rome and Brussels.

In 2008, we entered into a joint venture located in the Republic of Singapore as a 25% minority owner, which seeks to acquire hotels in various markets throughout Asia, including China, Japan, and India, and Australia. These acquisitions
could include mid-scale hotels, as well as luxury and upper upscale hotels that are our typical focus. While we currently do not own any hotels in our Asian Joint Venture, we act as the asset manager for two hotels, one of which is located in Tokyo,
Japan and one of which is located in Sydney, Australia in exchange for a fee.

Capital structure and liquidity
profile.As a REIT, Host is required to distribute 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) to its stockholders, and, as a result, generally must rely on external sources of capital to finance growth.
Therefore, we will use a variety of debt and equity instruments to fund our external growth, including senior notes and mortgage debt, exchangeable debentures, common and preferred stock offerings, issuances of Host LP partnership units and joint
ventures/limited partnerships to best take advantage of the prevailing market conditions.

Joint
Ventures.We expect to continue to utilize joint ventures to finance external growth. We believe joint ventures provide a significant means to access external capital and spread the inherent risk of hotel
ownership, while providing significant opportunities for positive returns on investment. Our primary focus for joint ventures is currently in international markets, such as in Europe and Asia, which will help to diversify our exposure to market
risk. We will also explore joint venture opportunities in North America and Latin America. We intend to earn a promoted interest and a fee for the asset management of the properties owned by such joint ventures.

Dispositions.The ability of prospective purchasers to obtain acquisition financing has been adversely
affected by the credit crisis and the overall lack of available debt in 2009. Despite the difficult market conditions for hotel dispositions, we were able to complete the sale of five hotels during 2009 and one in the first quarter of 2010.
Including these recent dispositions, we have sold 29 hotels over the past five years, generally disposing of non-core hotels that are located in suburban and non-target markets. These assets represented properties where







we believed the potential for growth was lower or properties with significant capital expenditure requirements where we did not believe we would generate a significant return on the investment.
However, we may also dispose of core assets when we have the opportunity to capitalize on value enhancement strategies and may apply the proceeds to other business objectives. Proceeds from dispositions have been, or will be, used to repay debt,
fund acquisitions and/or fund ROI/repositioning projects.

Operating Structure

Host operates through an umbrella partnership REIT structure in which substantially all of its properties and assets are held by Host LP, of
which Host is the sole general partner and holds approximately 98% of the outstanding partnership interests or OP units. As a result of the stock dividend issued in December 2009, each OP unit owned by holders other than Host is redeemable, at the
option of the holder, for an amount of cash equal to the market value of one share of Host common stock multiplied by a factor of 1.021494. Host has the right, however, to acquire any OP unit offered for redemption directly from the holder in
exchange for 1.021494 shares of Host common stock, instead of Host LP redeeming such OP unit for cash. When distinguishing between Host and Host LP, the primary difference is the approximately 2% of the OP units not held by Host as of
February 17, 2009. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations—Dividend Policy”.

Our operating structure is as follows:



Because Host is a REIT, certain tax laws limit the amount of “non-qualifying” income that Host
can earn, including income derived directly from the operation of hotels. As a result, we lease substantially all of our consolidated properties to certain of our subsidiaries designated as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS subsidiaries”)
for federal income tax purposes or to third party lessees. Our TRS subsidiaries are subject to







income tax and are therefore not limited as to the amount of non-qualifying income they can generate. The lessees and our TRS subsidiaries enter into agreements with third parties to manage the
operations of the hotels. Our TRS subsidiaries also may own assets engaging in other activities that produce non-qualifying income, such as the development of timeshare or condominium units, subject to certain restrictions. The difference between
the hotels’ net operating cash flow and the aggregate rents paid to Host LP is retained by our TRS subsidiaries as taxable income. Accordingly, the net effect of the TRS leases is that, while, as a REIT, Host is generally exempt from federal
income tax to the extent that we meet specific distribution requirements, among other REIT requirements, a portion of the net operating cash flow from our properties is subject to federal, state and, if applicable, foreign income tax.

Our Hotel Properties

Overview.Our lodging portfolio consists of 110 luxury and upper-upscale hotels generally located in the central business districts of major cities, near airports and resort/conference destinations that,
because of their locations, typically benefit from barriers to entry by competitors. These properties typically include meeting and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and lounges, swimming pools, exercise facilities and/or spas, gift shops
and parking facilities, the combination of which enable them to serve business, leisure and group travelers. Forty-four of our hotels representing approximately 65% of our revenues have over 500 rooms. The average age of our properties is 26 years,
although substantially all of the properties have benefited from significant renovations or major additions, as well as regularly scheduled renewal and replacement and other capital improvements.

The following chart details our hotel portfolio by brand as of February 17, 2010:



BrandNumberof HotelsRoomsPercentage ofRevenues(1)Marriott6638,06759%Sheraton75,5859Westin115,7029Ritz-Carlton93,3338Hyatt63,8547W21,1112Fairmont14502Four Seasons26081Hilton/Embassy Suites26781Swissôtel16611Other3745111060,794100%



(1)Percentage of revenues is based on 2009 revenues. No individual property contributed more than 7% of total revenues in 2009.







Hotel Properties.The following table sets
forth the location and number of rooms of our 110 hotels as of February 17, 2010:LocationRoomsArizonaScottsdale Marriott Suites Old Town243Scottsdale Marriott at McDowell Mountains270The Ritz-Carlton, Phoenix281The Westin Kierland Resort & Spa732CaliforniaCoronado Island Marriott Resort(1)300Costa Mesa Marriott Suites253Desert Springs, a JW Marriott Resort, Palm Desert884Hyatt Regency, San Francisco Airport789Manhattan Beach Marriott(1)385Marina del Rey Marriott(1)370Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa532Newport Beach Marriott Bayview254San Diego Marriott Hotel and Marina(1)1,362San Diego Marriott Mission Valley350San Francisco Airport Marriott685San Francisco Marriott Fisherman’s Wharf285San Francisco Marriott Marquis(1)1,499San Ramon Marriott(1)368Santa Clara Marriott(1)759Sheraton San Diego Hotel & Marina(1)1,053The Ritz-Carlton, Marina del Rey(1)304The Ritz-Carlton, San Francisco336The Westin Los Angeles Airport(1)740The Westin Mission Hills512The Westin South Coast Plaza(2)390ColoradoDenver Marriott Tech Center628Denver Marriott West(1)305The Westin Tabor Center430ConnecticutHartford Marriott Rocky Hill(1)251FloridaTampa Airport Marriott(1)296Harbor Beach Marriott Resort and Spa(1)(3)650Hilton Singer Island Oceanfront Resort223Miami Marriott Biscayne Bay(1)600Orlando World Center Marriott Resort and Convention Center2,000Tampa Marriott Waterside Hotel and Marina719The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island444The Ritz-Carlton, Naples450

LocationRoomsFlorida (continued)The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort, Naples295GeorgiaAtlanta Marriott Marquis1,663Atlanta Marriott Suites Midtown(1)254Atlanta Marriott Perimeter Center400Four Seasons Hotel, Atlanta244Grand Hyatt Atlanta in Buckhead438JW Marriott Hotel Buckhead371The Ritz-Carlton, Buckhead517The Westin Buckhead Atlanta365HawaiiHyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa806The Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui450IllinoisChicago Marriott Suites Downers Grove254Courtyard Chicago Downtown337Chicago Marriott O’Hare681Chicago Marriott Suites O’Hare256Embassy Suites Chicago Hotel, Downtown/Lakefront455Swissôtel, Chicago661IndianaSheraton Indianapolis(1)560South Bend Marriott298The Westin Indianapolis573LouisianaNew Orleans Marriott1,329MarylandGaithersburg Marriott Washingtonian Center284MassachusettsBoston Marriott Copley Place(1)1,145Hyatt Regency Cambridge, Overlooking Boston469Sheraton Boston1,220Sheraton Needham247The Westin Waltham-Boston346MichiganThe Ritz-Carlton, Dearborn308MinnesotaMinneapolis Marriott City Center(1)583MissouriKansas City Airport Marriott(1)383New HampshireCourtyard Nashua245New JerseyNewark Liberty International Airport Marriott(1)591Park Ridge Marriott(1)289Sheraton Parsippany370









LocationRoomsNew YorkNew York Marriott Downtown497New York Marriott Marquis Times Square(4)1,949Sheraton New York Hotel and Towers1,756W New York687North CarolinaGreensboro-Highpoint Marriott Airport(1)299OhioDayton Marriott399The Westin Cincinnati(1)456OregonPortland Marriott Downtown Waterfront503PennsylvaniaFour Seasons Hotel, Philadelphia364Philadelphia Airport Marriott(1)419Philadelphia Marriott Downtown(3)1,408TennesseeMemphis Marriott Downtown600TexasDallas/Addison Marriott Quorum by the Galleria547Houston Airport Marriott(1)565Houston Marriott Medical Center(1)386JW Marriott Hotel on Westheimer by the Galleria515San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter(1)1,001San Antonio Marriott Riverwalk(1)512St. Regis Hotel, Houston232VirginiaHyatt Regency Reston518Key Bridge Marriott(1)582

LocationRoomsVirginia (continued)Residence Inn Arlington Pentagon City299The Ritz-Carlton, Tysons Corner(1)398Washington Dulles Airport Marriott(1)368Westfields Marriott Washington Dulles336WashingtonSeattle Marriott SeaTac Airport459The Westin Seattle891W Seattle424Washington, D.C.Hyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill834JW Marriott Hotel, Washington, D.C.772Marriott at Metro Center459The Westin Grand267CanadaCalgary Marriott384Toronto Delta Meadowvale Resort and Conference Center374Toronto Marriott Airport(3)424Toronto Marriott Downtown Eaton Center(1)461ChileSan Cristobal Tower, a Luxury Collection Hotel, Santiago139Sheraton Santiago Convention Center379MexicoJW Marriott Hotel, Mexico City(3)312Total60,794





(1)The land on which this hotel is built is leased from a third party under one or more long-term lease agreements.

(2)The land, building and improvements are leased from a third party under a long-term lease agreement.

(3)This property is not wholly owned.

(4)This property is subject to a ground lease under which we have the option to purchase the land. In prior years, payments under the ground lease, which are determined
annually and are not fixed in nature, reduced the deferred ground rent liability and, in 2008, were applied to the deferred purchase price of the land. Accordingly, no expense was included in our results of operations for ground rent expense in
those years. In the first quarter of 2009, a portion of the payments fully funded the deferred purchase price, and the remainder of the payment for the first quarter of 2009 and all subsequent payments were accounted for as ground rent expense. We
have the ability to buy the fee simple interest in the land under the hotel for an incremental payment of $19.9 million through 2017.







Competition

The lodging industry is highly competitive. Competition is often specific to individual markets and is based on a number
of factors, including location, brand, guest facilities and amenities, level of service, room rates and the quality of accommodations. The lodging industry is generally viewed as consisting of six different segments, each of which caters to a
discrete set of customer tastes and needs: luxury, upper-upscale, upscale, midscale (with and without food and beverage service) and economy. The classification of a property is based on lodging industry standards, which take into consideration many
factors such as guest facilities and amenities, level of service and quality of accommodations. Most of our hotels operate in urban and resort markets either as luxury properties, under such brand names as Ritz-Carlton®, Fairmont®, Four Seasons®, The Luxury
Collection®, St. Regis®and W®, or as upper-upscale
properties, under such brand names as Marriott®, Hyatt®, Westin®, Hilton®, Sheraton®, Swissôtel®and
Delta®.(1)While our hotels primarily compete with other hotels in the luxury and upper-upscale segments, they also may compete
with hotels in other lower-tier segments.

We believe our properties enjoy competitive advantages associated with the hotel
brands under which they operate. The international marketing programs and reservation systems of these brands, combined with the strong management systems and expertise they provide, should enable our properties to perform favorably in terms of both
occupancy and room rates. In addition, repeat guest business is enhanced by guest reward or guest recognition programs offered by most of these brands. Nevertheless, many management contracts for our hotels do not prohibit our managers from
converting, franchising or developing other hotel properties in our markets. As a result, our hotels in a given market often compete with other hotels that our managers may own, invest in, manage or franchise.

We also compete with other REITs and other public and private investors for the acquisition of new properties and investment opportunities,
both domestically and internationally, as we attempt to position our portfolio to take best advantage of changes in markets and travel patterns of our customers.

Seasonality

Our hotel sales traditionally have experienced moderate
seasonality, which varies based on the individual hotel property and the region. Additionally, hotel revenues for our Marriott-managed hotels typically reflect approximately 16 weeks of results in the fourth quarter compared to approximately 12
weeks for each of the first three quarters of the fiscal year. For our non-Marriott managed hotels, the first quarter includes two months of operations, the second and third quarters include three months of operations and the fourth quarter includes
four months of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Reporting Periods” for more information on our fiscal calendar. Hotel sales have historically averaged
approximately 20%, 26%, 22% and 32% for the first, second, third and fourth quarters, respectively.

Other Real Estate Investments

In addition to our hotels, we have minority partner interests in other real estate investments. We manage these investments
and conduct business through a combination of general and limited partnership and limited liability company interests. All of the debt of these entities is non-recourse to us and our subsidiaries, and the entities are not consolidated in our
financial statements.

European Joint Venture.We currently own a 32.1% general and
limited partnership interest in a joint venture in Europe (the “European joint venture”) with Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP, a Dutch pension fund, and Jasmine Hotels Pte Ltd, an affiliate of the real estate investment company of the
Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd (GIC RE), the real estate investment company of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd. The initial term of the European joint venture is ten years (ending in 2016),



(1)This annual report contains registered trademarks that are the exclusive property of their respective owners, which are companies other than us. None
of the owners of these trademarks, their affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, agents or employees, has or will have any responsibility or liability for any information contained in this annual report.







subject to two one-year extensions with partner approval. Due to the ownership structure of the European joint venture and the non-Host limited partners’ rights to cause the dissolution and
liquidation thereof at any time, it is not consolidated in our financial statements. We also act as the asset manager for the hotels owned by the joint venture, as well as one hotel in Paris, France, in exchange for a fee. As of February 17,
2010, the European joint venture owns the following hotels:



HotelCityCountryRooms/UnitsHotel Arts BarcelonaBarcelonaSpain483The Westin Palace, MadridMadridSpain468The Westin Palace, MilanMilanItaly228The Westin Europa & ReginaVeniceItaly185Sheraton Roma Hotel & Conference CenterRomeItaly640Sheraton Skyline Hotel & Conference CentreHayesUnited Kingdom350Sheraton Warsaw Hotel & TowersWarsawPoland350Renaissance Brussels HotelBrusselsBelgium262Brussels Marriott HotelBrusselsBelgium218Marriott Executive ApartmentsBrusselsBelgium57Crowne Plaza Hotel Amsterdam City CentreAmsterdamThe Netherlands270Total rooms3,511

Asian Joint
Venture.We currently own a 25% interest in a joint venture in Asia (the “Asian joint venture”) with RECO Hotels JV Private Limited, an affiliate of GIC RE. The Asian joint venture is structured as a
Singapore Corporation and will explore investment opportunities in various markets throughout Asia, including India, China and Japan, and Australia. The initial term of the Asian joint venture is a period of seven years (ending in 2015). Due to the
ownership structure of the Asian joint venture, and our partner’s rights to cause the dissolution and liquidation thereof at any time, it is not consolidated in our financial statements. Currently, the Asian joint venture does not own any
hotels. We act as the asset manager for two hotel properties in exchange for fees and we are seeking additional asset management opportunities in Asia.

Other Investments.We own a leasehold interest in 53 Courtyard by Marriott properties and 18 Residence Inn by Marriott properties, which were sold to Hospitality
Properties Trust, Inc. (“HPT”) and leased back prior to 1997. In 1998, we subleased these 71 properties to a third party on similar terms with initial terms expiring between 2010 and 2012. The subleases are renewable at our option. Rent
payable under the subleases is guaranteed by the parent of the subtenants up to a maximum of approximately $21.6 million for the Courtyard leases, of which approximately $6.7 million has been funded through December 31, 2009, and
approximately $10.8 million for the Residence Inn leases, of which approximately $5.9 million has been funded through December 31, 2009. To the extent the parent of the subtenants fails to perform or fully funds its guarantee
obligation, we will be responsible for funding any rent shortfalls to HPT. At the expiration of these leases, HPT will return our initial security deposit of approximately $67 million, plus additional cash collateral of approximately
$7.8 million. We gave notice that we will terminate the lease on the 18 Residence Inn properties effective December 31, 2010, at which time we expect our $17 million security deposit will be returned by HPT. In 2010, we also intend to
give notice that we will terminate the lease on the 53 Courtyard by Marriott properties effective December 31, 2012.

We
own a 49% limited partner interest in Tiburon Golf Ventures, L.P., which owns the golf club surrounding The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort, Naples. For additional detail of our other real estate investments, including a summary of the outstanding debt
balances of our affiliates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Investments in Affiliates” and Note 3 “Investments in Affiliates” and Note 7 “Leases” in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

On September 11, 2009, we sold our remaining 3.6% limited
partnership interest in CBM Joint Venture Limited Partnership, which owned 115 Courtyard by Marriott properties (“CBM JV”) for approximately







$13 million and recorded a gain on property transactions of $5 million, net of taxes. As a result of this transaction, we no longer have any ownership interest in CBM JV.

Foreign Operations

Excluding hotels owned by our European joint venture, we currently own four properties in Canada, one in Mexico and two in Chile, which collectively contain approximately 2,500 rooms. Approximately 3% of our revenues were attributed to the
operations of these properties in each of 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Environmental and Regulatory Matters

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real
property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws may impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic
substances. In addition, certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for
personal injury associated with exposure to released asbestos-containing materials. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require
corrective or other expenditures. In connection with our current or prior ownership or operation of hotels, we may be potentially liable for various environmental costs or liabilities. Although we are currently not aware of any material
environmental claims pending or threatened against us, we can offer no assurance that a material environmental claim will not be asserted against us in the future.

Operational Agreements

Management Agreements.Our management agreements typically include the terms described below:



•Term and fees for operational services.    The initial term of our management agreements generally is 15 to 20 years with
one or more renewal terms at the option of the manager. The manager receives compensation in the form of a base management fee, which is calculated as a percentage (typically 3%) of annual gross revenues, and an incentive management fee, which is
typically calculated as a percentage (generally 20%) of operating profit after the owner has received a priority return on its investment in the hotel.







•Chain services.    The management agreements require the managers to furnish chain services that are generally furnished on
a centralized basis. Such services include: (1) the development and operation of certain computer systems and reservation services, (2) regional management and administrative services, regional marketing and sales services, regional
training services, manpower development and relocation of regional personnel and (3) such additional central or regional services as may from time to time be more efficiently performed on a regional or group basis rather than at an individual
hotel. Costs and expenses incurred in providing these services are generally allocated among all hotels managed by the manager or its affiliates that benefit from these services.



•Working capital and fixed asset supplies.    Our management agreements typically require us to maintain working capital for
each hotel and to fund the cost of certain fixed asset supplies (for example, linen, china, glassware, silver and uniforms). We also are responsible for providing funds to meet the cash needs for hotel operations if at any time the funds available
from hotel operations are insufficient to meet the financial requirements of the hotels.



•Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements.    Under the management agreements, we are required to provide to the
managers all necessary furniture, fixtures and equipment for the operation of the hotels (including funding any required furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements). The management agreements generally provide that, on an annual basis, the
manager will prepare a list of furniture, fixtures and equipment to be acquired and certain routine repairs and maintenance to be performed in the next year and an estimate of the funds that are necessary, which is subject to our review and
approval. For purposes of funding the furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements, a specified percentage (typically 5%) of the gross revenues of the hotel is deposited by the manager into an escrow account in our name, to which the manager has
access. However, for 61 of our hotels, we have entered into an agreement with Marriott International to allow us to fund such expenditures directly as incurred from one account that we control, subject to maintaining a minimum balance of the greater
of $33.5 million, or 30% of total annual specified contributions, rather than escrowing funds at accounts at each hotel.



•Building alterations, improvements and renewals.    The management agreements require the managers to prepare an annual
estimate of the expenditures necessary for major repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and elevators of each hotel which we review
and approve based on their recommendations and our judgment. In addition to the foregoing, the management agreements generally provide that the manager may propose such changes, alterations and improvements to the hotel as are required, in the
manager’s reasonable judgment, to keep the hotel in a competitive, efficient and economical operating condition consistent with the manager’s brand standards. We generally have approval authority over such changes, alterations and
improvements.



•Service marks.    During the term of the management agreements, the brand name, service mark, symbols and logos used by the
manager may be used in the operation of the hotel. Any right to use the brand name, service marks, logos and symbols and related trademarks at a hotel will terminate with respect to that hotel upon termination of the applicable management or
franchise agreement.



•Sale of the hotel.Most of the management agreements limit our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels by
requiring that the transferee assume the related management agreements and meet specified other conditions, including the condition that the transferee not be a competitor of the manager.



•Termination on sale.    While most of our management agreements are not terminable prior to their full term, we have
negotiated rights with respect to 18 specified Marriott-branded hotels to terminate management agreements in connection with the sale of these hotels subject to certain limitations, including the number of agreements that can be terminated per year,
limitations measured by EBITDA, and limitations requiring that a significant part of such hotels maintain the Marriott brand affiliation. The described termination rights may be exercised without payment of a termination fee, except for one of the
specified hotels wherein a termination fee is required if it does not maintain the Marriott brand affiliation.







•Performance termination.    The majority of our management agreements provide for termination rights in the case of a
manager’s prolonged failure to meet certain financial performance criteria, generally a set return on the owners’ investment. We have agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to waive certain of these termination rights in exchange
for consideration from the hotel manager, which could take the form of cash compensation or amendments to the management agreement. Similarly, the majority of our management agreements condition the manager’s right to renew pre-determined
extension terms upon satisfaction of certain financial performance criteria.

Operating and License
Agreements.Our operating and license agreements with Starwood (the operator with which we have the vast majority of these agreements) typically include the terms described below:



•Term and fees for operational services.    The initial term of our operating agreements is 20 years, with two renewal terms
of 10 years each at the option of the operator. The operator receives compensation in the form of a base fee of 1% of annual gross operating revenues and an incentive fee of 20% of annual gross operating profit, after the owner has received a
priority return of 10.75% on its purchase price and other investments in the hotels.



•License services.    The license agreements address matters relating to the subject brand, including rights to use service
marks, logos, symbols and trademarks, such as those associated with Westin®, Sheraton®and W®, as well as matters relating to compliance with certain standards and policies and (including through other agreements in the case of certain hotels) the provision of
certain system program and centralized services. The license agreements have an initial term of 20 years each, with two renewal terms of 10 years each at the option of the licensor. Licensors receive compensation in the form of license fees of 5% of
gross operating revenue attributable to room sales and 2% of gross operating revenue attributable to food and beverage sales.



•Programs and services.    The licensor or operator provides certain system programs and services to all or substantially all
of our Starwood hotels by brand in a licensed area. Such services include participation in reservation services and the marketing program as well as the Starwood Preferred Guest Program. In addition to these services, under the operating agreements,
centralized operating services are furnished to hotels by brand on a system basis. Costs and expenses incurred in providing such system programs and services and centralized operating services under the license and operating agreements or other
agreements are fairly allocated among all hotels in the applicable brand operated or licensed by Starwood or its affiliates.



•Working capital and fixed asset supplies.    The operating agreements require us to maintain working capital funds for each
hotel in order to fund the cost of certain fixed asset supplies and to meet the ongoing cash needs for hotel operations if at any time the funds available from hotel operations are insufficient to meet the financial requirements of the hotels. For
18 of our hotels, the working capital accounts which would otherwise be maintained by Starwood operators for each of such hotels are maintained on a pooled basis, with operators being authorized to make withdrawals from such pooled account as
otherwise contemplated with respect to working capital in accordance with the provisions of the operating agreements.



•Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements.    Under the operating and license agreements, we are required to provide
all necessary furniture, fixtures and equipment for the operation of the hotels (including funding for any required furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements). To fund these items each month, the operator transfers into a reserve fund account
an amount equal to 5% of the gross operating revenue of a hotel for the previous month. For 18 of our hotels, the periodic reserve fund contributions which would otherwise be deposited into reserve fund accounts maintained by operators for each
hotel are distributed to us, and we are responsible for providing funding of expenditures which would otherwise be funded from the reserve funds for each of the subject hotels as such expenditures become necessary. In addition to routine capital
expenditures, the reserve funds for the hotels also may be used for building capital improvements. Any approved reserve funding in excess of amounts







available in the pooled reserve funds is funded by us and results in appropriate increases of owner’s investment and owner’s priority amounts. For 18 hotels, the amount of any such
additional reserve funding will be allocated to each of such hotels on a pro rata basis, determined with reference to the net operating income of each hotel and the total net operating income of all hotels for the most recent operating year. Any
such additional reserve funding will result in corresponding increases in the owner’s investment and owner’s priority amounts with respect to each of such hotels.



•Building alterations, improvements and renewals.    The operating agreements require the operators to prepare an annual
operating plan that includes an estimate of the expenditures necessary for maintenance, repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and
elevators of each hotel, which plan and proposed expenditures we review and approve based on the operator’s recommendations and our judgment.



•Territorial.    The operating agreements provide area restrictions for a period of either five or 10 years, which limit the
operator and its affiliates from owning, operating or licensing a hotel of the same brand in the area. The area restrictions vary with each hotel, from city blocks in urban areas to up to a 10-mile radius from the hotel in other areas.



•Sale of the hotel/other.    The license agreements limit our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels.
Generally, the agreements require that the transferee assume the related operating agreement and meet specified other conditions, including the condition that the transferee not be a competitor of the licensor. The operating agreements provide for
termination rights beginning in 2016 in the case of the operator’s failure to meet certain financial performance criteria. Generally, such rights arise in the event that the operator fails, for two consecutive years, to generate operating
profit equal to or greater than a specified percentage of the owner’s investment in the hotel, and the RevPAR performance of the hotel falls below that of other competitive hotels in the market during such two-year period.



•Termination on sale.    As of February 17, 2010, we have termination rights relating to the operating agreements on ten
specified hotels upon the sale of those hotels. Such termination rights are currently active with respect to one such hotel. With respect to nine of the ten specified hotels, we have the right beginning in 2016 to sell 35% of such hotels (measured
by EBITDA), not to exceed two hotels annually, free and clear of the existing operating agreement over a period of time without the payment of a termination fee. With respect to any termination of an operating agreement on sale, the proposed
purchaser would need to meet the requirements for transfer under the applicable license agreement.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had 186 employees, including 177 at our Bethesda, Maryland office, two at our London,
England office, one at our Amsterdam, The Netherlands office and six at our Republic of Singapore office. Employees at our consolidated hotels are employed by the operators that manage our hotels.

None of our direct employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. However, employees at certain of our third-party managed
hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and renewal on a regular basis. For a discussion of these relationships see “Risk Factors—We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel
personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”



