Item 1.Business

Consolidated Portfolio

As of February 22, 2012, we have 121 hotels in our portfolio, primarily consisting of luxury and upper upscale
hotels containing 64,947 rooms as detailed below:



HotelsRoomsUnited States (1)10560,658Australia1364Brazil1245Canada41,643Chile2518Mexico1312New Zealand71,207Total12164,947



(1)Includes properties in 25 states and Washington, D.C.







European Joint Venture

We own an interest in a joint venture in Europe (the “Euro JV”) that owns luxury and upper upscale hotels in two separate funds. We own a 32.1% interest in Fund I (11 hotels, 3,512 rooms) and a
33.4% interest in Fund II (two hotels, 676 rooms). The hotels are located in the following countries:



HotelsRoomsItaly31,053Spain2950United Kingdom2630Belgium3539France1396Poland1350The Netherlands1270Total134,188

We are the general partner of the Euro JV. We act as the asset manager for these hotels and for a hotel
not owned by us or the Euro JV, a 440 room property in Paris, France, in exchange for a fee.

Asian Joint Venture

We own a 25% interest in an Asian joint venture (the “Asian JV”) that has made a non-controlling investment in a joint venture
in India to develop seven hotels, totaling approximately 1,750 rooms, in three major cities in India, Bengaluru, Chennai and Delhi. The hotels will be managed by Accor under the Pullman, ibis and Novotel brands. The first two hotels are expected to
fully open by March of 2012.

Other Real Estate Investments

Our other real estate investments represent less than 1% of our overall assets and approximately 5% of our overall revenues. We lease 53 Courtyard by Marriott select-service hotels from Hospitality
Properties Trust (“HPT”) that are located in 24 states in the United States. We have given notice that we intend to terminate these leases on December 31, 2012. Additionally, we own €64 million ($87 million) face amount
of the two most junior tranches of a mortgage note receivable secured by six hotels in Europe. The loan matures in October of 2012.

Where
to Find Additional Information

The address of our principal executive office is 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500,
Bethesda, Maryland, 20817. Our phone number is 240-744-1000. We maintain an internet website at: www.hosthotels.com. Through our website, we make available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the “Exchange Act”).

Our website also is a key source of important information about us. We routinely post
to the Investor Relations section of our website important information about our business, our operating results and our financial condition and prospects, including, for example, information about material acquisitions and dispositions, our
earnings releases and certain supplemental financial information related or complimentary thereto. The website also has a Governance page in the Investor Relations section that includes, among other things, copies of our By-laws, our Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics and Conflicts of Interest Policy for our directors, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy for employees, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters for each standing committee of Host Inc.’s Board
of Directors, which currently are the Audit Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Copies of these charters and policies, Host Inc.’s By-laws and Host L.P.’s partnership
agreement are also available in print to stockholders and unitholders upon request to Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, Attn: Secretary. Please note that the information contained
on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, any document, unless expressly incorporated by reference therein.







The discussion of our Business and Properties should be read in conjunction with the
accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Part II Item 8 of this report.

The Lodging Industry

The lodging industry in the United States consists of private and public entities that operate in an extremely diversified
market under a variety of brand names. The lodging industry has several key participants:



•Owners—own the hotel and typically enter into an agreement for an independent third party to manage the hotel. These properties may be
branded and operated under the manager’s brand or branded under a franchise agreement and operated by the franchisee or by an independent hotel manager. The properties also may be operated as an independent hotel (unaffiliated with any brand)
by an independent hotel manager.



•Owner/Managers—own the hotel and operate the property with their own management team. These properties may be branded under a franchise
agreement, operated as an independent hotel (unaffiliated with any brand) or operated under the owner’s brand. We are restricted from operating and managing hotels under applicable REIT rules.



•Franchisors—own a brand or brands and strive to grow their revenues by expanding the number of hotels in their franchise system.
Franchisors provide their branded hotels with brand recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems.



•Franchisor/Managers—own a brand or brands and also operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner or franchisee.



•Manager—operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner, but do not, themselves, own a brand. The hotels may be operated under a franchise
agreement or as an independent hotel unaffiliated with any brand.

The hotel manager is responsible for the
day-to-day operation of the hotels, including the employment of hotel staff, the determination of room rates, the development of sales and marketing plans, the preparation of operating and capital expenditure budgets and the preparation of financial
reports for the owner. They typically receive fees based on the revenues and profitability of the hotel.

Our industry is
influenced by the cyclical relationship between the supply of and demand for hotel rooms. Lodging demand growth typically is related to the vitality of the overall economy, in addition to local market factors that stimulate travel to specific
destinations. In particular, economic indicators such as GDP growth, business investment and employment growth are some of the primary drivers of lodging demand. Between 2003 and 2007, broad growth in the economy led to increases in demand. However,
the global recession that began in the second half of 2008 and lasted throughout much of 2009 resulted in a considerable decline in both consumer and business spending and a severe decline in demand within the lodging industry. During
2010, economic indicators began to improve due to strengthening GDP and business investment, although these improvements have been tempered by continued high-unemployment. While lodging demand has not recovered fully from the steep declines
experienced in 2008 and 2009, the recovery that began in 2010 has continued into 2011, led by transient demand from business and leisure travelers. We expect demand and RevPAR to grow in 2012, though the rate of growth may be affected by uncertainty
in the direction of the global economy, particularly with regard to the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe.

Lodging
supply growth is generally driven by overall lodging demand, as extended periods of strong demand growth tend to encourage new development. However, the rate of supply growth also is influenced by a number of additional factors, including the
availability of capital, interest rates, construction costs and unique market considerations. The relatively long lead-time required to complete the development of hotels makes supply growth







easier to forecast than demand growth, but increases the volatility of the cyclical behavior of the lodging industry. As illustrated in the charts below, at different points in the cycle, demand
and supply may increase or decrease in a dissimilar manner such that demand may increase when there is no new supply or supply may grow when demand is declining. Beginning in the second half of 2008, the stress in the credit markets made financing
for new hotel construction extremely difficult to obtain. This, coupled with the decline in lodging demand during 2008 and 2009 due to the global economic recession, caused a significant reduction in new hotel construction starts. As a result,
supply growth was relatively low in 2010 and 2011, and we expect growth through 2013 to be well below the historical growth rate of 2.0% (based on data from Smith Travel Research over the past 25 years). In addition, we anticipate that demand growth
will exceed supply growth during this period, resulting in occupancy gains, which is consistent with analysis prepared by PKF Hospitality Research.

Revenue per available room (“RevPAR”) is an operational measure commonly used in the hotel industry to evaluate hotel performance. RevPAR represents the product of the average daily room rate
charged and the average daily occupancy achieved, but excludes other revenue generated by a hotel property, such as food and beverage, parking and other revenues. Average daily room rate (“ADR”) reflects the average rate charged by hotels.
Average rates can be influenced by, among other things, demand, previously negotiated contracts, the overall mix of business and new supply in a given market.

The charts below detail the historical supply, demand and RevPAR growth for the U.S. lodging industry and for the upper upscale segment for 2007 to 2011 and forecast data for 2012. Historical industry
trends have indicated that hotels in the upper upscale segment have generally outperformed the lodging industry in terms of RevPAR growth over time, although, in 2011, the upper-upscale segment slightly underperformed the lodging industry. Our
portfolio primarily consists of upper upscale hotels and, accordingly, its performance is best understood in comparison to the upper upscale segment rather than the entire industry.

U.S. Lodging Industry Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth











U.S. Upper Upscale Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth





Business Strategy

Our primary long-term business objective is to provide superior total returns to our equity holders through a combination of appreciation in asset values, growth in earnings and dividend distributions. To
achieve this objective, we seek to:



•acquire properties in urban and resort/conference destinations that are operated by leading management companies. These investments primarily will be
located in gateway cities with significant appeal to multiple customer segments. While we will continue to focus on luxury and upper upscale hotel properties in our target markets, we intend to expand our investments to include the acquisition or
development of midscale and upscale properties, particularly in urban or foreign markets;



•strategically invest in major redevelopment and return on investment (“ROI”) projects in order to maximize the inherent value in our
portfolio;



•drive operating results at our properties through aggressive asset management;



•maintain a strong balance sheet with a low leverage level and balanced debt maturities in order to minimize the cost of capital and to maximize our
financial flexibility in order to take advantage of opportunities throughout the lodging business cycle;



•expand our global portfolio holdings and revenue sources through joint ventures or direct acquisitions that diversify our investments; and



•recycle capital through the disposition of non-core assets, including hotels that are at competitive risk or that are located in suburban or
slower-growth markets, or to opportunistically dispose of core properties to take advantage of market conditions.

Acquisitions.Our acquisition strategy focuses on acquiring hotels in both foreign and domestic markets at attractive yields that exceed our cost of capital. Domestically, our
core acquisition strategy will continue to focus on upper upscale and luxury hotel properties located in the central business districts of key gateway cities and







prominent resort locations with high barriers to entry as, historically, these properties have demonstrated higher RevPAR growth. In addition, we are discussing select-service hotel development
opportunities with strategic development partners in order to leverage our growth strategy. In the European markets, our acquisition targets will continue to be concentrated in the upper upscale and luxury segments. In the fast-growing emerging
markets, primarily Asia-Pacific and South America (particularly Brazil), in addition to acquiring upper upscale properties, we also will pursue the acquisition or development of midscale and upscale hotels, as we believe the limited supply of
quality lodging products in these markets creates an opportunity for solid returns on this type of investment.

Redevelopment and Return on Investment Projects.We pursue opportunities to enhance asset value by completing select capital improvements outside the scope of recurring renewal and
replacement capital expenditures. In a typical year, these investments may represent 40% to 50% or more of our capital expenditures. These projects are designed to take advantage of changing market conditions and the favorable location of our
properties to enhance customer satisfaction and increase profitability. We evaluate our capital expenditure projects based on their economic, environmental and social impact. In collaboration with our hotel managers, we continually evaluate new
products and systems designed to yield predictable and targeted results, while improving overall energy efficiency. Examples of these technologies include: co-generation plants, laundry waste water recycling systems, elevator modernizations,
building automation systems and controls, EPA ENERGY STAR®qualified appliances and electronics, EPA WaterSense®labeled plumbing fixtures, energy efficient lighting, sustainable construction practices and using materials made
from recycled content.

Redevelopment projects.These projects are designed to optimally position our hotels within
their respective markets and within their competitive set. Redevelopment projects include, for example, extensive renovations of guest rooms, including bathrooms, lobbies, food and beverage outlets, expanding ballroom and meeting rooms, and major
mechanical system upgrades.

Targeted Return on Investment Projects.These projects often are smaller and focused on
specific areas, such as converting unprofitable or underutilized space into meeting space or adding guestrooms. We also target projects that improve energy efficiency through the implementation and adoption of proven sustainable technologies and
operational practices.

Value enhancement projects.We seek opportunities to enhance the value of our portfolio by
identifying and executing strategies that maximize the highest and best use of all aspects of our hotels. These projects include the development of timeshare or condominium units on excess land, or the acquisition of air rights or development
entitlements that add value to our portfolio or enhance its value in the event that we sell the hotel.

Acquisition
Projects.Generally, in connection with an acquisition, we prepare a capital improvement plan that we believe will enhance profitability. These near-term projects may include required renewal and replacement projects or significant redevelopment
and even re-branding of the property and represent a key component of our decision to invest in a hotel.

Asset
Management.As Host Inc. is the nation’s largest lodging REIT with a diverse portfolio of luxury and upper upscale properties, we are in a unique position to work with the managers of our hotels in order to maximize
revenues, while minimizing operating costs. The size and composition of our portfolio and our affiliation with most of the leading operators and brands in the industry allow us to benchmark similar hotels and identify best practices and identify
efficiencies that can be implemented at our properties. Areas of focus include enhancing revenue management for rooms, food and beverage and other services, reducing operating costs and identifying operating efficiencies, all of which improve the
long-term profitability of the hotel.

Another key component of our asset management strategy focuses on maintaining the high
standards of product quality of our properties. We work closely with our managers to ensure that renewal and replacement expenditures are spent efficiently in order to maximize the profitability of the hotel. Typically, room refurbishments occur at
intervals of approximately seven years, but the timing may vary based on the type of property and equipment being replaced. These refurbishments generally are divided into the following types: soft goods, case goods and infrastructure. Soft goods
include items such as carpeting, bed spreads, curtains and wall vinyl and may require more frequent updates in order to maintain brand quality standards. Case goods include items such as dressers, desks, couches, restaurant and meeting room chairs
and tables and generally are not replaced as frequently. Infrastructure includes the physical plant of the hotel, including the roof, elevators, façade and fire systems, which regularly are maintained and then replaced at the end of their
useful lives.









Capital structure and liquidity profile.As a REIT, Host Inc. is
required to distribute 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) to its stockholders, and, as a result, generally must rely on external sources of capital to finance growth. We use a variety of debt and equity instruments in order to
fund our external growth, including senior notes and mortgage debt, exchangeable debentures, common and preferred stock offerings, issuances of Host L.P. partnership units and joint ventures/limited partnerships to best take advantage of the
prevailing market conditions. While we may issue debt at any time in order to take advantage of favorable market conditions, management believes it is prudent, over time, to continue to lower our leverage level. We believe lower overall leverage
will reduce our cost of capital and earnings volatility, and provides us with the necessary flexibility to take advantage of opportunities throughout the lodging cycle, which we consider a key competitive advantage. Currently, we will look to fund
the majority of our investments with proceeds from equity offerings and cash from dispositions.

We also seek to structure our
debt profile to allow us to access different forms of financing, primarily senior notes and exchangeable debentures, as well as mortgage debt. Generally, this means we will look to minimize the number of assets that are encumbered by mortgage debt,
minimize near-term maturities and maintain a balanced maturity schedule.

Joint Ventures.We
expect to continue to utilize joint ventures to finance external growth. We believe joint ventures provide a significant means to access external capital and spread the inherent risk of hotel ownership. Our primary focus for joint ventures is in
foreign markets, such as in Europe and Asia, which will help to diversify exposure to market risk. We also may explore joint venture opportunities in North America and Latin America.

Dispositions.Our disposition strategy focuses on properties where we believe the potential for growth is constrained
or on properties with significant capital expenditure requirements where we do not believe we would generate a significant return on the investment. Primarily, these properties are located in secondary and tertiary markets, as opposed to our target
markets of urban and resort locations. However, we also may dispose of assets in our primary markets through direct sales or through the creation of joint ventures, as described above, when we have the opportunity to capitalize on value enhancement
strategies and apply the proceeds to other business objectives. Proceeds from dispositions are deployed to repay debt, fund acquisitions and/or ROI/redevelopment projects.

Corporate Responsibility

Host’s sustainability strategy integrates
fiscal responsibility with environmental and social responsibility on both the corporate and portfolio levels. Our environmental goals are to reduce overall carbon emissions, energy consumption, water use and waste in our hotels. We pursue these
goals through capital investments, sustainable design and renovations and by encouraging our hotel managers to implement and embrace sustainable operational practices.

Partnering closely with our hotel managers to attain each brand’s specific energy reduction targets, we seek to
maximize the efficiency of existing systems and equipment through energy audits and retro-commissioning (RCx) studies. Through these processes, we identify proven energy conservation technologies and products that we seek to replicate, where
applicable, across our portfolio through our capital projects. Our internal development, design and engineering teams strive to select sustainable construction materials that require less maintenance and last longer, recycle carpets and wall
coverings, and frequently use products with recycled content. We may also specify and purchase EPA ENERGY STAR®qualified appliances, electronics and reflective roofing systems and ship materials using EPA’s Smart Way trucking companies.

Operating Structure

Host Inc. operates through an umbrella partnership REIT structure in which substantially all of its properties and assets are held by Host
L.P., of which Host Inc. is the sole general partner and holds approximately 98.5% of the OP units. As a result of the stock dividend in December 2009, which affected the conversion ratio of OP units to







Host Inc. common stock, each OP unit owned by holders other than Host Inc. is redeemable, at the option of the holder, for an amount of cash equal to the market value of one share of Host Inc.
common stock multiplied by a factor of 1.021494 (as opposed to a conversion factor of 1 share/unit that existed prior to the stock dividend). Host Inc. has the right to acquire any OP unit offered for redemption directly from the holder in exchange
for 1.021494 shares of Host Inc. common stock, instead of Host L.P. redeeming such OP unit for cash. Additionally, for every share of common stock issued by Host Inc., Host L.P. will issue .97895 OP units to Host Inc. As of December 31, 2011,
non-controlling partners held 10.5 million OP units, which were convertible into 10.7 million Host Inc. common shares. Assuming that all non-controlling interests were converted into common shares, there would have been 715.8 million
common shares of Host Inc. outstanding at December 31, 2011. When distinguishing between Host Inc. and Host L.P., the primary difference is the approximately 1.5% of OP units not held by Host Inc. See “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Distribution/Dividend Policy”.

Our operating structure is as follows:





Because Host Inc. is a REIT, certain tax laws limit the amount of “non-qualifying” income
that Host Inc. can earn, including income derived directly from the operation of hotels. As a result, we lease substantially all of our consolidated properties to certain of our subsidiaries designated as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”)
for federal income tax purposes or to third party lessees. Our TRS are subject to income tax and are therefore not limited as to the amount of non-qualifying income they can generate. The lessees and our TRS enter into agreements with third parties
to manage the operations of the hotels. Our TRS also may own assets engaging in other activities that produce non-qualifying income, such as the development of timeshare or condominium units, subject to certain restrictions. The difference between
the hotels’ net operating cash flow and the aggregate rents paid to Host L.P. is retained by our TRS as taxable income. Accordingly, the net effect of the TRS leases is that, while, as a REIT, Host Inc. is generally exempt from federal income
tax to the extent that it meets specific distribution requirements, among other REIT requirements, a portion of the net operating cash flow from our properties is subject to federal, state and, if applicable, foreign income tax.







Our Hotel Properties

Overview.We have 121 hotels in our portfolio, primarily consisting of luxury and upper upscale properties. These hotels generally are located in the central business districts of major
cities, near airports and resort/conference destinations that, because of their locations, typically benefit from barriers to entry for new supply. These properties typically include meeting and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and
lounges, swimming pools, exercise facilities and/or spas, gift shops and parking facilities, the combination of which enable them to serve business, leisure and group travelers. Forty-five of our hotels, representing approximately 63% of our
revenues, have in excess of 500 rooms. The average age of our properties is 28 years, although substantially all of the properties have benefited from significant renovations or major additions, as well as regularly scheduled renewal and replacement
and other capital improvements.

The following chart details our consolidated hotel portfolio by brand as of February 22,
2012:



BrandNumberof HotelsRoomsPercentage ofRevenues(1)Marriott6638,01354%Ritz-Carlton83,0188Starwood:Sheraton75,4418Westin136,89910W31,3823St. Regis12321The Luxury Collection1139—Hyatt75,4819Fairmont14502Four Seasons26081Hilton/Embassy Suites31,0421Swissôtel16611Delta13741Accoribis3455—Novotel4752112164,947100%



(1)Percentage of revenues is based on 2011 revenues. No individual property contributed more than 7% of total revenues in 2011.







Hotel Properties. The following table sets forth the location and number
of rooms of our 121 hotels as of February 22, 2012:





LocationRooms

Arizona

Scottsdale Marriott Suites Old Town243

Scottsdale Marriott at McDowell Mountains270

The Ritz-Carlton, Phoenix281

The Westin Kierland Resort & Spa732

California

Coronado Island Marriott Resort (1)300

Costa Mesa Marriott253

JW Marriott Desert Springs Resort & Spa884

Hyatt Regency San Francisco, Burlingame789

Manchester Grand Hyatt, San Diego (1)1,625

Manhattan Beach Marriott (1)385

Marina del Rey Marriott (1)370

Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa532

Newport Beach Marriott Bayview254

San Diego Marriott Marquis & Marina (1)1,360

San Diego Marriott Mission Valley350

San Francisco Airport Marriott685

San Francisco Marriott Fisherman’s Wharf285

San Francisco Marriott Marquis (1)1,499

San Ramon Marriott (1)368

Santa Clara Marriott (1)759

Sheraton San Diego Hotel & Marina (1)1,053

The Ritz-Carlton, Marina del Rey (1)304

The Ritz-Carlton, San Francisco336

The Westin Los Angeles Airport (1)740

The Westin Mission Hills Resort & Spa512

The Westin South Coast Plaza (2)390

Colorado

Denver Marriott Tech Center Hotel628

Denver Marriott West (1)305

The Westin Denver Downtown430

Connecticut

Hartford Marriott Rocky Hill (1)251

Florida

Tampa Airport Marriott (1)296

Harbor Beach Marriott Resort & Spa (1)(3)650

Hilton Singer Island Oceanfront Resort223

Miami Marriott Biscayne Bay (1)600

Orlando World Center Marriott Resort & Convention Center2,000

Tampa Marriott Waterside Hotel & Marina719

The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island444

The Ritz-Carlton, Naples450

The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort, Naples295

Georgia

Atlanta Marriott Marquis1,663

LocationRoomsGeorgia (cont.)Atlanta Marriott Suites Midtown (1)254Atlanta Marriott Perimeter Center400Four Seasons Hotel Atlanta244Grand Hyatt Atlanta in Buckhead439JW Marriott Buckhead Atlanta371The Ritz-Carlton, Buckhead510The Westin Buckhead Atlanta365HawaiiHyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa on Kaanapali Beach806The Fairmont Kea Lani Maui450IllinoisChicago Marriott Suites Downers Grove254Chicago Downtown Courtyard River North337Chicago Marriott O’Hare681Chicago Marriott Suites O’Hare256Embassy Suites Chicago-Downtown/Lakefront455Swissôtel Chicago661The Westin Chicago River North424IndianaSheraton Indianapolis Hotel at Keystone Crossing (1)395The Westin Indianapolis573LouisianaNew Orleans Marriott1,329MarylandGaithersburg Marriott Washingtonian Center284MassachusettsBoston Marriott Copley Place (1)1,145Hyatt Regency Cambridge470Sheraton Boston Hotel1,220Sheraton Needham Hotel247The Westin Waltham-Boston346MinnesotaMinneapolis Marriott City Center (1)583MissouriKansas City Airport Marriott (1)384New HampshireCourtyard Nashua245New JerseyNewark Liberty International Airport Marriott (1)591Park Ridge Marriott (1)289Sheraton Parsippany Hotel370New YorkNew York Helmsley Hotel773New York Marriott Downtown497









LocationRoomsNew York (cont.)New York Marriott Marquis Times Square (4)1,949Sheraton New York Hotel & Towers1,777W New York688W New York – Union Square (3)270North CarolinaGreensboro-Highpoint Marriott Airport (1)299OhioDayton Marriott399The Westin Cincinnati (1)456OregonPortland Marriott Downtown Waterfront503PennsylvaniaFour Seasons Hotel Philadelphia364Philadelphia Airport Marriott (1)419Philadelphia Marriott Downtown (3)1,408TennesseeMemphis Marriott Downtown600TexasDallas/Addison Marriott Quorum by the Galleria547Houston Airport Marriott (1)565Houston Marriott at the Texas Medical Center (1)386JW Marriott Hotel Houston Galleria515San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter (1)1,001San Antonio Marriott Riverwalk (1)512St. Regis Hotel, Houston232VirginiaHyatt Regency Reston518Key Bridge Marriott (1)582Arlington Pentagon City Residence Inn299The Ritz-Carlton, Tysons Corner (1)398Washington Dulles Airport Marriott (1)368Westfields Marriott Washington Dulles336WashingtonSeattle Airport Marriott459

LocationRoomsWashington (cont.)The Westin Seattle891W Seattle424Washington, D.C.Hyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill834JW Marriott Washington DC772Marriott at Metro Center459The Westin Georgetown, Washington, D.C.267AustraliaHilton Melbourne South Wharf (1) (3)364BrazilJW Marriott Rio de Janeiro245CanadaCalgary Marriott384Delta Meadowvale Resort & Conference Centre374Toronto Marriott Airport (3)424Toronto Marriott Downtown Eaton Centre (1)461ChileSan Cristobal Tower, Santiago139Sheraton Santiago Hotel & Convention Center379MexicoJW Marriott Hotel Mexico City (3)312New ZealandNovotel Auckland Ellerslie147ibis Ellerslie100Novotel Wellington139ibis Wellington200Novotel Queenstown Lakeside273Novotel Christchurch Cathedral Square (1)193ibis Christchurch (1)155Total64,947





(1)The land on which this hotel is built is leased from a third party under one or more long-term lease agreements.

(2)The land, building and improvements are leased from a third party under a long-term lease agreement.

(3)This property is not wholly owned.

(4)This property is subject to a ground lease under which we have the option to purchase the land for an incremental payment of $19.9 million through 2017.







Competition

The lodging industry is highly competitive. Competition is often specific to individual markets and is based on a
number of factors, including location, brand, guest facilities and amenities, level of service, room rates and the quality of accommodations. The lodging industry generally is viewed as consisting of six different segments, each of which caters to a
discrete set of customer tastes and needs: luxury, upper upscale, upscale, midscale (with and without food and beverage service) and economy. The classification of a property is based on lodging industry standards, which take into consideration many
factors such as guest facilities and amenities, level of service and quality of accommodations. Most of our hotels operate in urban and resort markets either as luxury properties under such brand names as Ritz-Carlton®, Fairmont®, Four Seasons®, The Luxury
Collection®, St. Regis®and W®, or as upper upscale
properties under such brand names as Marriott®, Hyatt®, Westin®, Hilton®, Sheraton®, Swissôtel®, Pullman®and Delta®. We also may selectively invest in midscale and upscale properties such as ibis®, Novotel®, Hyatt Place®, Four Points by Sheraton®, Hilton Garden Inn®,
Fairfield Inn by Marriott®or Courtyard by Marriott®, particularly in foreign markets.(1)While our hotels primarily compete with other hotels in the luxury and upper upscale segments, they also may
compete with hotels in other lower-tier segments.

We believe our properties enjoy competitive advantages associated with the
hotel brands under which they operate. The international marketing programs and reservation systems of these brands, combined with the strong management systems and expertise they provide, should enable our properties to perform favorably in terms
of both occupancy and room rates. In addition, repeat guest business is enhanced by guest reward or guest recognition programs offered by most of these brands. Nevertheless, many management contracts for our hotels do not prohibit our managers from
converting, franchising or developing other hotel properties in our markets. As a result, our hotels in a given market often compete with other hotels that our managers may own, invest in, manage or franchise.

We also compete with other REITs and other public and private investors for the acquisition of new properties and investment
opportunities, in both domestic and foreign markets, as we attempt to position our portfolio to take best advantage of changes in markets and travel patterns of our customers.

Seasonality

Our hotel sales traditionally have experienced moderate
seasonality, which varies based on the individual property and the region. Additionally, hotel revenues for our domestic Marriott-managed hotels typically reflect approximately 16 weeks of results in the fourth quarter compared to approximately 12
weeks for each of the first three quarters of the year. For our non-Marriott managed hotels, the first quarter includes two months of operations, the second and third quarters include three months of operations and the fourth quarter includes four
months of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Reporting Periods” for more information on our fiscal calendar. Hotel sales have historically averaged approximately
20%, 26%, 22% and 32% for the first, second, third and fourth quarters, respectively.





(1)This annual report contains registered trademarks that are the exclusive property of their respective owners, which are companies other than us. None of the owners of
these trademarks, their affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, agents or employees, has or will have any responsibility or liability for any information contained in this annual report.







Other Real Estate Investments

European Joint Venture.We own a general and limited partnership interest in the Euro JV with APG Strategic Real Estate Pool
NV, an affiliate of a Dutch Pension Fund, and Jasmine Hotels Pte Ltd, an affiliate of the real estate investment company of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd (“GIC RE”). Effective June 27, 2011, the partners
agreed to expand the Euro JV through the creation of a second fund, Fund II, in which each of the current partners holds a 33.3% limited partner interest and we hold the 0.1% general partner interest. We hold a 32.0% limited partner interest and a
0.1% general partner interest in Fund I. The Euro JV also acts as the asset manager for the hotels owned by the Euro JV, as well as one hotel in Paris, France, in exchange for a fee. As of February 22, 2012, the Euro JV owns the following
hotels:



HotelCityCountryRooms/UnitsFund I:Hotel Arts BarcelonaBarcelonaSpain483The Westin Palace, MadridMadridSpain467The Westin Palace, MilanMilanItaly228The Westin Europa & ReginaVeniceItaly185Sheraton Roma Hotel & Conference CenterRomeItaly640Sheraton Skyline Hotel & Conference CentreHayesUnited Kingdom350Sheraton Warsaw Hotel & TowersWarsawPoland350Renaissance Brussels HotelBrusselsBelgium262Brussels Marriott HotelBrusselsBelgium221Marriott Executive ApartmentsBrusselsBelgium56Crowne Plaza Hotel Amsterdam City CentreAmsterdamThe Netherlands270Fund I total rooms3,512Fund II:Le Méridien PiccadillyLondonUnited Kingdom280Pullman Bercy ParisParisFrance396Fund II total rooms676Total European joint venture rooms4,188

Asian Joint Venture.We own a 25% interest in the Asian JV with RECO Hotels JV
Private Limited, an affiliate of GIC RE. During 2011, our Asian JV invested approximately $53 million (of which our share was $13.3 million) of its $65 million commitment to acquire a 36% interest in a joint venture in India with
Accor S.A. and InterGlobe Enterprises Limited. This joint venture is developing seven properties, totaling approximately 1,750 rooms in three major cities in India: Bengaluru, Chennai and Delhi, and will be managed by Accor under the Pullman, ibis
and Novotel brands. The first two hotels are expected to be opened fully by March of 2012.

Other Investments.In addition to the joint ventures described above, we have the following real estate investments:



•On April 13, 2010, we acquired, at a discount, the two most junior tranches of a €427 million ($581 million) mortgage loan that is
secured by six hotels located in Europe, with a face value of €64 million ($87 million). The loan matures on October 20, 2012.



•We own a leasehold interest in 53 Courtyard by Marriott properties which were sold to HPT and leased back to us in 1995. In conjunction with our
conversion to a REIT, in 1999 we entered into a sublease with respect to these properties with a third party on similar terms. We terminated the subleases effective July 6, 2010 and subsequently act as the owner under the management agreements.
We gave notice of our intent to cancel the leases effective December 31, 2012.

For additional detail
of our other real estate investments, including a summary of the outstanding debt balances of our affiliates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
and Contractual Obligation” and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements entitled “Investments in Affiliates” and Note 7 “Leases” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.







Foreign Operations

Excluding hotels owned by our European and Asian joint ventures, as of December 31, 2011, we own one property in Australia, one property in Brazil, four in Canada, one in Mexico, two in Chile, and
seven in New Zealand, which collectively contain approximately 4,289 rooms. Approximately 6%, 4%, and 3% of our revenues were attributed to the operations of these properties in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 17 to our consolidated
financial statements entitled “Geographic and Business Segment Information” for information related to our operations and information regarding geographic areas.

Environmental and Regulatory Matters

Under various federal, state and
local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws may impose liability whether or not the
owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials,
and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to released asbestos-containing materials. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property
may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require corrective or other expenditures. In connection with our current or prior ownership or operation of hotels, we may be potentially liable for various environmental costs or
liabilities. Although we are currently not aware of any material environmental claims pending or threatened against us, we can offer no assurance that a material environmental claim will not be asserted against us in the future.

Operational Agreements

All of our hotels are managed by third parties pursuant to management or operating agreements, with some of those hotels also being
subject to separate license agreements addressing matters pertaining to operation under the designated brand. Under these agreements, the managers generally have sole responsibility and exclusive authority for all activities necessary for the
day-to-day operation of the hotels, including establishing room rates, securing and processing reservations, procuring inventories, supplies and services, providing periodic inspection and consultation visits to the hotels by the managers’
technical and operational experts and promoting and publicizing the hotels. The managers provide all managerial and other employees for the hotels, review the operation and maintenance of the hotels, prepare reports, budgets and projections, and
provide other administrative and accounting support services to the hotels. These support services include planning and policy services, divisional financial services, product planning and development, employee staffing and training, corporate
executive management and certain in-house legal services. For the majority of our properties, we have approval rights over budgets, capital expenditures, significant leases and contractual commitments, and various other matters.

General Terms and Provisions– Agreements governing the management and operation of our hotels typically include the terms
described below:



•Term and fees for operational services. The initial term of our management and operating agreements generally is 15 to 25 years, with one or
more renewal terms at the option of the manager. The majority of our management agreements condition the manager’s right to exercise options for specified renewal terms upon the satisfaction of specified economic performance criteria. The
manager typically receives compensation in the form of a base management fee, which is calculated as a percentage (generally 2-3%) of annual gross revenues, and an incentive management fee, which typically is calculated as a percentage (generally
10-20%) of operating profit after the owner has received a priority return on its investment in the hotel. In the case of our Starwood-managed hotels, the base management fee is only 1% of annual gross revenues, but that amount is supplemented by
license fees payable to Starwood under a separate license agreement (as described below).







•License services. In the case of our Starwood-managed hotels, the operation of the hotels is subject to separate license agreements addressing
matters pertaining to the designated brand, including rights to use trademarks, service marks and logos, matters relating to compliance with certain brand standards and policies, and the provision of certain system programs and centralized services.
Although the term of these license agreements with Starwood generally is coterminous with the corresponding operating agreements, the license agreements contemplate the potential for continued brand affiliation even in the event of a termination of
the operating agreement. As noted above, the Starwood licensors receive compensation in the form of license fees (generally of 5% of gross revenues attributable to room sales and 2% of gross revenues attributable to food and beverage sales), which
amounts supplement the lower base management fee of only 1% of gross revenues received by Starwood under the operating agreements.



•Chain or system programs and services. Managers are required to provide chain or system programs and services generally that are furnished on a
centralized basis. Such services include the development and operation of certain computer systems and reservation services, regional or other centralized management and administrative services, marketing and sales programs and services, training
and other personnel services, and other centralized or regional services as may be determined to be more efficiently performed on a centralized, regional or group basis rather than on an individual hotel basis. Costs and expenses incurred in
providing these chain or system programs and services generally are allocated on a cost reimbursement basis among all hotels managed by the manager or its affiliates or that otherwise benefit from these services.



•Working capital and fixed asset supplies. We are required to maintain working capital for each hotel and to fund the cost of certain fixed asset
supplies (for example, linen, china, glassware, silver and uniforms). We also are responsible for providing funds to meet the cash needs for hotel operations if at any time the funds available therefrom are insufficient to meet the financial
requirements of the hotels. For certain hotels, the working capital accounts which would otherwise be maintained by the managers for each of such hotels are maintained on a pooled basis, with managers being authorized to make withdrawals from such
pooled account as otherwise contemplated with respect to working capital in accordance with the provisions of the management or operating agreements.





•



Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements



•Building alterations, improvements and renewals. The managers are required to prepare an annual estimate of the expenditures necessary for major
repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and elevators of each hotel, along with alterations and improvements to the hotel as are
required, in the manager’s reasonable judgment, to keep the hotel in a competitive, efficient and economical operating condition that is consistent with brand standards. We generally have approval rights as to such budgets and expenditures,
which we







review and approve based on our manager’s recommendations and on our judgment. Expenditures for these major repairs and improvements affecting the hotel building typically are funded
directly by owners, although (as noted above) our agreements with Starwood contemplate that certain such expenditures may be funded from the reserve account.



•Treatment of additional owner funding. As additional owner funding becomes necessary for either expenditures generally funded from the FF&E
reserve accounts, or for any major repairs or improvements to the hotel building which may be required to be funded directly by owners, most of our agreements provide for an economic benefit to us through an impact on the calculation of incentive
management fees payable to our managers. One approach frequently utilized at our Marriott-managed hotels is to provide such owner funding through loans which are repaid, with interest, from operational revenues, with the repayment amounts reducing
operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. Another approach that typically is used at our Starwood-managed hotels, as well as with certain expenditures projects at our Marriott-managed hotels, is to treat such owner funding
as an increase to our investment in the hotel, resulting in an increase to owner’s priority return with a corresponding reduction to the amount of operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. For our Starwood-managed
hotels that are subject to the pooled arrangement described above, the amount of any additional reserve account funding is allocated to each of such hotels on a pro rata basis, determined with reference to the net operating income of each hotel and
the total net operating income of all such pooled hotels for the most recent operating year.



•Territorial protections. Certain management and operating agreements impose restrictions for a specified period which limit the manager and its
affiliates from owning, operating or licensing a hotel of the same brand within a specified area. The area restrictions vary with each hotel, from city blocks in urban areas to up to a multi-mile radius from the hotel in other areas.



•Sale of the hotel. Subject to specific agreements as to certain hotels (see below under ‘Special Termination Rights’), we generally
are limited in our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels by the requirement that the transferee assume the related management agreements and meet specified other conditions, including the condition that the transferee not be a
competitor of the manager.



•Performance Termination Rights.In addition to any right to terminate that may arise as a result of a default by manager, most of our management
and operating agreements include reserved rights by us to terminate management or operating agreements on the basis of the manager’s failure to meet certain performance-based metrics, typically including a specified threshold return
on owner’s investment in the hotel, along with a failure of the hotel to achieve a specified RevPAR performance threshold established with reference to other competitive hotels in the market. Typically, such performance-based termination
rights arise in the event the operator fails to achieve specified performance thresholds over a consecutive two-year period, and are subject to the manager’s ability to ‘cure’ and avoid termination by payment to us of specified
deficiency amounts (or, in some instances, waiver of the right to receive specified future management fees). We have agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to waive certain of these termination rights in exchange for consideration from a
manager or its affiliates, which consideration may include cash compensation or amendments to management agreements.



•Special Termination Rights.In addition to any performance-based or other termination rights set forth in our management and operating
agreements, we have negotiated with Marriott and Starwood specific termination rights as to certain management and operating agreements. While the brand affiliation of a property may increase the value of a hotel, the ability to dispose of a
property unencumbered by a management agreement or even brand affiliation also can increase the value for prospective purchasers. These termination rights can take a number of different forms, including termination of agreements upon sale that leave
the property unencumbered by any agreement; termination upon sale provided that the property continues to be operated under a license or franchise agreement with continued brand affiliation; as well as termination without sale or other condition,
which may require payment of a fee. These termination rights also may restrict the number of agreements that may be terminated over any annual or other period; impose limitations on the number of agreements terminated as measured by EBITDA; require
that a certain number of properties continue to maintain the brand affiliation; or be restricted to a specific pool of assets.







Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we had 219 employees, consisting of 196 at our corporate headquarters in Bethesda, Maryland and a total of 23 employees in our offices in Arizona, London, England, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil, Amsterdam, The Netherlands and the Republic of Singapore. While employees at our consolidated hotels generally are employed by the operators that manage our hotels, we have seven hotels in New Zealand and one in Australia where we
collectively have 538 employees.

None of our direct employees as of December 31, 2011 are covered by collective
bargaining agreements. However, employees at certain of our third-party managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and renewal on a regular basis. For a discussion of these relationships see “Risk
Factors—We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”







