Item 1.Business

Host Inc. was incorporated as a Maryland corporation in 1998 and operates as a self-managed and self-administered REIT. Host Inc. owns properties and conducts operations through Host L.P., of which Host Inc. is the sole general partner and in which it holds approximately 99% of the partnership interests (“OP units”) as of December 31, 2015. The remaining partnership interests are owned by various unaffiliated limited partners. Host Inc. has the exclusive and complete responsibility for Host L.P.’s day-to-day management and control.

As of February 19, 2016, our consolidated lodging portfolio consists of 105 primarily luxury and upper-upscale hotels containing approximately 57,000 rooms, with the majority located in the United States, and with 12 of the properties located outside of the U.S. in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Mexico and New Zealand. In addition, we own non-controlling interests in two international joint ventures: approximately a 33% interest in a joint venture in Europe, which owns 10 luxury and upper-upscale hotels with approximately 3,900 rooms in Belgium, France, Germany, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom; and a 9% indirect interest, through joint ventures, in five operating hotels in India and two additional hotels in India currently under development. We also hold non-controlling investments in two domestic hotels and a timeshare joint venture in Hawaii.

Business Strategy

Our goal is to be the preeminent owner of high-quality lodging real estate at the epicenter of dynamic, growing markets and to generate superior long-term risk-adjusted returns for our stockholders throughout all lodging cycles, through a combination of appreciation in asset values, growth in earnings, and dividend distributions. Our strategy to achieve this objective includes:

·Superior Portfolio- Own a geographically-diverse portfolio of hotels located in major urban centers and resort destinations with relatively higher barriers to entry;

·Disciplined Capital Allocation- Allocate and recycle capital to earn returns that exceed our cost of capital and actively return capital to stockholders;

·Strong Asset Management Capabilities- Create value in our existing portfolio through intelligent asset management and capital investment;

·Powerful and Flexible Capital Structure- A flexible capital structure that allows us to execute our strategy throughout the lodging cycle; and






·Employer of Choiceand Responsible Corporate Citizen- Our organizational structure is aligned with our business objectives to be an employer of choice and a responsible corporate citizen.

Portfolio.We will focus on refining our portfolio to include multiple types of hotels in locations which we believe have strong demand generators that appeal to multiple customer segments, achieve premium rates, and have relatively higher barriers to entry. While we will continually evaluate and refine our portfolio, we generally focus on the following types of assets:

·Resortsin locations with strong airlift and limited supply growth. These assets feature superior amenities and are operated by premier operators;

·Convention destination hotelsthat are group oriented in urban/resort markets. These assets feature extensive, high-caliber meeting facilities and are often connected to prominent convention centers;

·City-center hotelsin urban and coastal markets with high barriers to entry. Positioned in prime locations, these assets possess multiple demand drivers for both business and leisure travelers; and

·Suburban and airport hotelsthat either are market leaders in prime suburban commercial locations, or connected to airport terminals or conveniently located on airport ground.

We also will seek to have awell-balanced portfolio within select major markets. Our general goal is that 80% to 90% of our portfolio revenues will be generated by hotels located within these markets, which will allow us the flexibility to make opportunistic investments in alternative locations that we expect will perform well over time. Domestically, these markets include Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego, Seattle, Hawaii, New York, Washington, D.C., Boston, Florida, and Chicago. These markets historically have outperformed the overall U.S. lodging industry in terms of real revenue per available room (“RevPAR”) growth, although there can be no assurances that this outperformance will continue for any number of reasons, including changes in travel patterns or supply in these markets. The following chart details the long-term performance of our domestic major markets over the past 20 years:



We will strive fordiversified exposurewithin multiple brands, focused asset classes, and favorable location types. As one of the largest owners of Marriott, Starwood and Hyatt properties, our hotels primarily are operated under brand names that are among the most respected and widely recognized in the lodging industry. Within these diversified brands, we have focused predominately on the upper-upscale and luxury asset classes, as we believe they have a broad appeal for both the individual and group leisure and business customers.

Internationally, our focus is on premium assets in major Western European markets through our European Joint Venture platform like London, Paris and Berlin. At the same time, we plan to reduce our exposure to markets in the Asia-Pacific region and in South and Central America.

Capital Allocation.Guided by adisciplined approach to capital allocation, we are positioned to make capital decisions around delivering the greatest value and returning capital to stockholders. Our goal is to allocate and recycle capital to earn returns that exceed our risk-adjusted cost of capital.

We will look torefine our portfolio through our disposition strategy.  Generally, our dispositions will be focused on non-core assets where we believe the potential for growth is constrained or on properties with significant capital expenditures requirements that we do not believe would generate a return on the investment. Prior to the sale of assets, we will look for opportunities to increase






the sale price, which may include value-added capital expenditures projects and ground lease extensions. We also will look to take advantage of opportunities to capture attractive pricing for hotels that have management contract flexibility. In robust transaction markets, we also may opportunistically dispose of higher-quality assets through direct sales or through the creation of joint ventures tocapitalize on value enhancement strategies and prices that are in excess of our estimated long-term value of holding the asset.

Through ourdisciplined approach to acquisitions and new development, we seek investments that we believe can achieve unlevered returns that exceed our cost of capital in locations that we expect to outperform in the long-term. Generally, we will look to invest capital early in the lodging cycle and benefit from the subsequent industry-wide increase in values. As we move further into the lodging cycle, we will increase our focus on opportunities where we believe we can add value through redevelopment, repositioning or new development, or pursue a portfolio or larger redevelopment asset where our scale is a competitive advantage.

We focus oncreating and mining value from our existing portfolio through capital investments and value enhancement initiatives. These projects may include significant changes to guest rooms, public space and meeting space, as well as a repositioning of the property under a different operator or brand. We work closely with our managers to attempt to time these projects so as to minimize disruption to operations and the impact to the environment.

·Value Enhancement Initiativesseek to achieve the highest and best use of our properties. These projects may include the development of timeshare, office space or condominium units on excess land, redevelopment or expansion of existing retail space, and the acquisition of air rights or development entitlements.

·Redevelopment and Return on Investment Projectsare designed to take advantage of changing market conditions and the favorable location of our properties and seek to increase profitability and enhance customer satisfaction. Our capital expenditures projects generally fall into the following categories:

Redevelopment projects.These projects are designed to improve the positioning of our hotels within their markets and competitive set. Redevelopment projects include extensive renovations of guest rooms and bathrooms, lobbies, food and beverage outlets; expanding and/or extensive renovation of ballroom and meeting rooms; major mechanical system upgrades, and green building initiatives and certifications.

Targeted Return on Investment (ROI) projects.These projects often are smaller and focused on increasing space profitability or lowering net operating costs. Typical ROI projects include converting unprofitable or underutilized space into meeting space, adding guestrooms, and implementing energy and water conservation measures such as LED lighting, guestroom water efficient fixtures, and building automation systems.

Renewal and Replacement Capital Expendituresare designed to maintain the quality and competitiveness of our hotel properties.  Typically, room renovations occur at intervals of approximately seven years, but the timing may vary based on the type of property and equipment being renovated. These renovations generally are divided into the following types: soft goods, case goods, bathroom and infrastructure. Soft goods include items such as carpeting, bed spreads, curtains and wall vinyl and may require more frequent updates in order to maintain brand quality standards. Case goods include items such as dressers, desks, couches, restaurant and meeting room chairs and tables; which generally are not replaced as frequently. Bathroom renovations include the replacement of tile, vanity, lighting and plumbing fixtures. Infrastructure includes the physical plant of the hotel, including the roof, elevators/escalators, façade, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems and fire systems.

Throughout the lodging cycle, to the extent that we are unable to find appropriate investment opportunities that meet our return requirements, we will focus onreturning capital to stockholdersthrough dividends or common stock repurchases. Significant factors we review to determine the level and timing of the returns to stockholders include the current stock price compared to our determination of the underlying value of our assets, current and forecasted operating results and the completion of hotel sales.

Asset Management.As the owner of a large and diverse portfolio, we believe we are in a unique position to work with our managers to drive operating performance and implement value-added real estate decisions. The size and composition of our portfolio and our affiliation with most of the leading brands and operators in the industry allow our asset managers to benchmark similar hotels and identify best practices and efficiencies that can improve long-term profitability. Our asset managers are supported by a feasibility team that provides independent underwriting of ROI and value-enhancement projects, as well as dedicated resources around business intelligence, revenue management and restaurant and bar operations.  We also carefully evaluate and monitor our property agreements, including our management and franchise agreements, in an effort to obtain flexibility and drive overall value. Ultimately, our goal is to differentiate our assets within their competitive market, drive operating performance and enhance the value of the real estate.

·Enhance profitabilityby using our proprietary business intelligence system to benchmark and monitor hotel performance and cost controls and complete deep-dive analytic reviews across brands and properties to identify new opportunities that could increase profit.

·Drive revenue growthby conducting detailed strategic reviews with our managers on market pricing and segment mix in order to develop the appropriate group/transient mix and market share targets for each property. We also work with






our managers to ensure that their brands’ on-line presence addresses a broad customer base, including group customers and overseas travelers.

·Strategically position food & beverage outletsthrough initiatives such as combining bars and restaurants to create a more relevant experience for consumers throughout the day or outsourcing outlets when a viable partnership may improve profitability and increase our customer base.

·Work with leading brands, as well as independent operators,in the lodging industry and actively seek to diversify operators within our portfolio. We will look to capitalize on situations where we have management agreement flexibility to appropriately match a hotel and its operator, brand and contract terms.  This will include new relationships with independent operators that may be an improved fit for smaller or unbranded products.

·Improve contract flexibilitythrough the extension or purchase of ground leases or the restructuring of management agreements to enhance overall value.

Financing Strategy.Our goal is to maintain a flexible capital structure that allows us to execute our strategy throughout the lodging cycle. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, Host Inc. is required to distribute 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain, including taxable income recognized for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive cash) to its stockholders and, as a result, generally relies on external sources of capital, as well as cash from operations, to finance growth. We use a variety of debt and equity instruments to fund our external growth, including senior notes and mortgage debt, exchangeable debentures, common and preferred stock offerings, issuances of OP units and joint ventures/limited partnerships to take advantage of the prevailing market conditions.

·Management believes that astrong balance sheetis a key competitive advantage that affords us a lower cost of capital and positions us for external growth. While we may issue debt at any time, generally we will target a net debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) ratio, (or “Leverage Ratio,” as defined in our credit facility) of 2.5x to 3.0x and seek to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior unsecured debt. We believe the investment grade rating and lower leverage will deliver the most consistent access to capital, thereby providing us with the necessary flexibility to take advantage of opportunities throughout the lodging cycle.

·We seek to structure our debt profile tomaintain financial flexibility and a balanced maturity schedulewith access to different forms of financing; primarily senior notes and exchangeable debentures, as well as mortgage debt. Generally, we look to minimize the number of assets that are encumbered by mortgage debt, minimize near-term maturities and maintain a balanced maturity schedule. We may issue debt in foreign currencies to match the proceeds thereof with their intended use in order to reduce the potential costs of investing in foreign properties in terms of foreign currency fluctuation and local taxes. Depending on market conditions, we also may utilize variable rate debt which can provide greater protection during a decline in the lodging industry. Generally we will target our floating rate debt to be 20% to 35% of total debt, in part depending on our outlook on future interest rates.

·We expect tocontinue to utilize joint venturesto finance external growth. We believe joint ventures provide a significant means to access external capital and spread the inherent risk of hotel ownership. Our primary focus for joint ventures is in international markets, which helps to diversify exposure to market risk.

Corporate Responsibility.Our corporate responsibility program focuses on the management of the environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities for our business and is organized around the following themes and objectives:

●Responsible Investment:We incorporate sustainability into our asset management approach. During the acquisition of new properties, we assess both sustainability opportunities and climate change related risks as part of our due diligence process. During the ownership of our properties, we seek to invest in proven sustainability practices in our redevelopment and ROI projects that can enhance asset value while also improving environmental performance.

●Environmental Stewardship:We seek to improve the environmental footprint of our properties.  We have established goals to reduce energy use and carbon emissions from across our portfolio and will continue to report on actual performance in our environmental disclosures. As part of our asset management approach, we work closely with our hotel managers to monitor environmental performance and support implementation of operational best practices.  In our redevelopment and ROI projects, we target specific environmental efficiency projects, equipment upgrades and replacements that reduce energy and water consumption and offer appropriate returns on investment.

●Corporate Citizenship:We are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen and strengthening our local communities. We do this through financial support, community engagement, volunteer service, and industry collaboration. Our approach to corporate citizenship is reinforced by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and periodic engagement with key stakeholders to understand their corporate responsibility priorities.






The Lodging Industry

The lodging industry in the United States consists of private and public entities that operate in an extremely diversified market under a variety of brand names. The lodging industry has several key participants:

●Owners—own the hotel and typically enter into an agreement for an independent third party to manage the hotel. These properties may be branded and operated under the manager’s brand or branded under a franchise agreement and operated by the franchisee or by an independent hotel manager. The properties also may be operated as an independent hotel by an independent hotel manager.

●Owner/Managers—own the hotel and operate the property with their own management team. These properties may be branded under a franchise agreement, operated as an independent hotel or operated under the owner’s brand. We are prohibited from operating and managing hotels under applicable REIT rules.

●Franchisors—own a brand or brands and strive to grow their revenues by expanding the number of hotels in their franchise system. Franchisors provide their hotels with brand recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems for the franchised hotels.

●Franchisor/Managers—own a brand or brands and also operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner or franchisee.

●Managers—operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner, but do not, themselves, own a brand. The hotels may be operated under a franchise agreement or as an independent hotel.

The hotel manager is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the hotel, including the employment of hotel staff, the determination of room rates, the development of sales and marketing plans, the preparation of operating and capital expenditures budgets and the preparation of financial reports for the owner. The hotel manager typically receives fees based on the revenues and profitability of the hotel.

Supply and Demand Trends.Our industry is influenced by the cyclical relationship between the supply of and demand for hotel rooms. Lodging demand growth typically is related to the vitality of the overall economy, in addition to local market factors that stimulate travel to specific destinations. In particular, trends in economic indicators such as GDP growth, business investment and employment growth are key indicators of the relative strength of lodging demand. Lodging demand also will be affected by changes to international travel.

Lodging supply growth generally is driven by overall lodging demand, as extended periods of strong demand growth tend to encourage new development. However, the rate of supply growth also is influenced by a number of additional factors, including the availability of capital, interest rates, construction costs and unique market considerations. The relatively long lead-time required to complete the development of hotels makes supply growth easier to forecast than demand growth, but increases the volatility of the cyclical behavior of the lodging industry. As illustrated in the charts below for the U.S. lodging industry, at different points in the cycle, demand may increase when there is no new supply or supply may grow when demand is declining.

Additionally, the rapid growth of on-line short-term rentals has added a new source of supply for the industry; however, the overall impact on the hotel industry has been difficult to track. Additionally, the availability of these outlets is more variable than typical changes in supply and tends to be very market specific.






Our portfolio primarily consists of upper upscale hotels and, accordingly, its performance is best understoodin comparison to the upper upscale segment rather than the entire industry. Since the market downturn in 2008 and 2009, new supply of this segment has been limited and has remained well below historic levels and, as a result, demand has increased at a greater rate than supply, leading to RevPAR growth. However, as the market has continued to strengthen, supply has increased and for 2016 is expected to be commensurate with its historic cumulative average growth rate from 1988 to 2015 of approximately 2% forthe industry. However, for the upper-upscale segments in which the majority of our properties compete, we continue to have a lower level of supply growth of approximately 1.5%. The charts below detail the historical supply, demand and RevPAR growth for the U.S. lodging industry and for the U.S. upper upscale segment for 2011 to 2015 and forecast data for 2016:

U.S. Lodging Industry Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth





U.S. Upper Upscale Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth












Managers and OperationalAgreements

All of our hotels are managed by third parties pursuant to management or operating agreements, with some of such hotels also subject to separate franchise or license agreements addressing matters pertaining to operation under the designated brand. Under these agreements, the managers generally have sole responsibility and exclusive authority for all activities necessary for the day-to-day operation of the hotels, including establishing room rates, securing and processing reservations, procuring inventories, supplies and services, providing periodic inspection and consultation visits to the hotels by the managers’ technical and operational experts and promoting and publicizing the hotels. The managers provide all managerial and other employees for the hotels, review the operation and maintenance of the hotels, prepare reports, budgets and projections, and provide other administrative and accounting support services to the hotels. These support services include planning and policy services, divisional financial services, product planning and development, employee staffing and training, corporate executive management and certain in-house legal services. We have certain approval rights over budgets, capital expenditures, significant leases and contractual commitments, and various other matters.

As of February 19, 2016, our hotels are managed by the following hotel management companies:



Manager# of hotelsBrandsMarriott International, Inc.53Ritz-Carlton®, JW Marriott®, Marriott Marquis®, Marriott®, Courtyard by Marriott®, Residence Inn by Marriott®Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Inc.23W®, Westin®, Sheraton®, Luxury Collection®, St. Regis®Hyatt Hotels Corporation8Grand Hyatt®, Hyatt Regency®AccorHotels5ibis®, Novotel®Hilton Hotels & Resorts2Hilton®, Embassy Suites®Crestline Hotels & Resorts2Marriott®, Hilton®Sage Hospitality2Marriott®, Curio - A Collection by Hilton®Kokua Hospitality2Axiom Hotel®,Hyatt Place®Destination Hotels2Autograph Collection by Marriott®, YVE Hotel Miami®HEI Hotels & Resorts2Westin®, Sheraton®Davidson Hotels & Resorts2Marriott®, Sheraton®FRHI Hotels & Resorts2Fairmont®, Swissôtel®105

These management agreements can affect the value of the property associated with it based on the pricing and flexibility of the agreement. We often will seek to negotiate the terms of an agreement to provide greater value to the associated asset. See “Performance Termination Rights” and “Special Termination Rights”described below. Currently, 32 of our management agreements have termination rights, subject to certain conditions detailed below, that can lend to the flexibility of the agreement. We have an additional eight properties currently operating under agreements that will end within the next 20 years, with no further extension options exercisable by the manager.

General Terms and Provisions– Agreements governing our hotels managed by brand owners (Marriott, Starwood, Hyatt, Hilton and AccorHotels, above) typically include the terms described below:

●Term and fees for operational services. The initial term of our management and operating agreements generally is 10 to 25 years, with one or more renewal terms at the option of the manager. The majority of our management agreements condition the manager’s right to exercise options for specified renewal terms upon the satisfaction of specified economic performance criteria. The manager typically receives compensation in the form of a base management fee, which is calculated as a percentage (generally 2-3%) of annual gross revenues, and an incentive management fee, which typically is calculated as a percentage (generally 10-20%) of operating profit after the owner has received a priority return on its investment in the hotel. In the case of our Starwood-managed hotels, the base management fee is only 1% of annual gross revenues, but that amount is supplemented by license fees payable to Starwood under a separate license agreement (as described below).

●License services. In the case of our Starwood-managed hotels, the operation of the hotels is governed by separate license agreements addressing matters pertaining to the designated brand, including rights to use trademarks, service marks and logos, matters relating to compliance with certain brand standards and policies, and the provision of certain system programs and centralized services. Although the term of these license agreements with Starwood generally is coterminous with the corresponding operating agreements, the license agreements contemplate the potential for continued brand affiliation even in the event of a termination of the operating agreement. As noted above, the Starwood licensors receive compensation in the form of license fees (generally 5% of gross revenues attributable to room sales and 2% of gross revenues attributable to food and beverage sales), which amounts supplement the lower base management fee of 1% of gross revenues received by Starwood under the operating agreements.






●Chain or system programs and services. Managers are required to provide chain or system programs and services generally that are furnished on a centralized basis. Such services include the development and operation of certain computer systems and reservation services, regional or other centralized management and administrative services, marketing and sales programs and services, training and other personnel services, and other centralized or regional services as may be determined to be more efficiently performed on a centralized, regional or group basis rather than on an individual hotel basis. Costs and expenses incurred in providing these chain or system programs and services generally are allocated on a cost reimbursement basis among all hotels managed by the manager or its affiliates or that otherwise benefit from these services.

●Working capital and fixed asset supplies. We are required to maintain working capital for each hotel and to fund the cost of certain fixed asset supplies (for example, linen, china, glassware, silver and uniforms). We also are responsible for providing funds to meet the cash needs for hotel operations if at any time the funds available from working capital are insufficient to meet the financial requirements of the hotels. For certain hotels, the working capital accounts which would otherwise be maintained by the managers for each of such hotels are maintained on a pooled basis, with managers being authorized to make withdrawals from such pooled account as otherwise contemplated with respect to working capital in accordance with the provisions of the management or operating agreements.



●



Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements

●Building alterations, improvements and renewals. The managers are required to prepare an annual estimate of the expenditures necessary for major repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and elevators of each hotel, along with alterations and improvements to the hotel as are required, in the manager’s reasonable judgment, to keep the hotel in a competitive, efficient and economical operating condition that is consistent with brand standards. We generally have approval rights as to such budgets and expenditures, which we review and approve based on our manager’s recommendations and on our judgment. Expenditures for these major repairs and improvements affecting the hotel building typically are funded directly by owners, although (as noted above) our agreements with Starwood contemplate that certain such expenditures may be funded from the reserve account.

●Treatment of additional owner funding. As additional owner funding becomes necessary either for expenditures generally funded from the FF&E replacement funds, or for any major repairs or improvements to the hotel building which may be required to be funded directly by owners, most of our agreements provide for an economic benefit to us through an impact on the calculation of incentive management fees payable to our managers. One approach frequently utilized at our Marriott-managed hotels is to provide such owner funding through loans which are repaid, with interest, from operational revenues, with the repayment amounts reducing operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. Another approach that is used at our Starwood-managed hotels, as well as with certain capital expenditures projects at our Marriott-managed hotels, is to treat such owner funding as an increase to our investment in the hotel, resulting in an increase to owner’s priority return with a corresponding reduction to the amount of operating profit available for payment of incentive management fees. For our Starwood-managed hotels that are subject to the pooled arrangement described above, the amount of any additional reserve account funding is allocated to each of such hotels on a pro rata basis, determined with reference to the net operating income of each hotel and the total net operating income of all such pooled hotels for the most recent operating year.

●Territorial protections. Certain management and operating agreements impose restrictions for a specified period which limit the manager and its affiliates from owning, operating or licensing a hotel of the same brand within a specified area. The area restrictions vary with each hotel, from city blocks in urban areas to up to a multi-mile radius from the hotel in other areas.

●Sale of the hotel. Subject to specific agreements as to certain hotels (see below under ‘Special Termination Rights’), we generally are limited in our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels by the requirement that the transferee






assume the related management agreements and meet specified other conditions, including the condition that the transferee not be a competitor of the manager.

●Performance Termination Rights.In addition to any right to terminate that may arise as a result of a default by the manager, most of our management and operating agreements include reserved rights by us to terminate on the basis of the manager’s failure to meet certain performance-based metrics, typically including a specified threshold return on owner’s investment in the hotel, along with a failure of the hotel to achieve a specified RevPAR performance threshold established with reference to other competitive hotels in the market. Typically, such performance-based termination rights arise in the event the operator fails to achieve specified performance thresholds over a consecutive two-year period, and are subject to the manager’s ability to ‘cure’ and avoid termination by payment to us of specified deficiency amounts (or, in some instances, waiver of the right to receive specified future management fees). We have agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to waive certain of these termination rights in exchange for consideration from a manager or its affiliates, which consideration may include cash compensation or amendments to management agreements.

●Special Termination Rights.In addition to any performance-based or other termination rights set forth in our management and operating agreements, we have specific negotiated termination rights as to certain management and operating agreements. While the brand affiliation of a property may increase the value of a hotel, the ability to dispose of a property unencumbered by a management agreement, or even brand affiliation, also can increase the value for prospective purchasers. These termination rights can take a number of different forms, including termination of agreements upon sale that leave the property unencumbered by any agreement; termination upon sale provided that the property continues to be operated under a license or franchise agreement with continued brand affiliation; as well as termination without sale or other condition, which may require the payment of a fee. These termination rights also may restrict the number of agreements that may be terminated over any annual or other period; impose limitations on the number of agreements terminated as measured by EBITDA; require that a certain number of properties continue to maintain the brand affiliation; or be restricted to a specific pool of assets.

In addition to hotels managed by brand owners, we have ten branded hotels and two non-branded hotels operated by independent managers.  Our management agreements with independent managers, while similar in operational scope to agreements with our brand managers, typically have shorter initial terms, no renewal rights, more flexible termination rights, and more limited system-wide services. However, while we have additional flexibility with regard to these operators, all but two of those hotels remain subject to the underlying franchise or licensing agreements.

Operating Structure






Our operating structure is as follows:







(1)We own a 25% interest in a joint venture in Asia, which owns a 36% non-controlling interest in a separate joint venture in India.

As a REIT, certain tax laws limit the amount of “non-qualifying” income that Host Inc. and Host L.P. can earn, including income derived directly from the operation of hotels. As a result, we lease substantially all of our consolidated properties to certain of our subsidiaries designated as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”) for federal income tax purposes or to third party lessees. Our TRS are subject to income tax and are not limited as to the amount of non-qualifying income they can generate, but they are limited in terms of their value as a percentage of the total value of our assets. Our TRS enter into agreements with third parties to manage the operations of the hotels. Our TRS also may own assets engaging in other activities that produce non-qualifying income, such as the development of timeshare or condominium units, subject to certain restrictions. The difference between the hotels’ net operating cash flow and the aggregate rents paid to Host L.P. is retained by our TRS as taxable income. Accordingly, the net effect of the TRS leases is that, a portion of the net operating cash flow from our properties is subject to federal, state and, if applicable, foreign income tax.

Our Consolidated Hotel Portfolio

As of February 19, 2016, we owned a portfolio of 105 hotel properties, of which 93 are located in the United States and 12 are located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Mexico and New Zealand. Our consolidated hotels located outside the United States collectively contain approximately 3,200 rooms. Approximately 4% of our revenues were attributed to the operations of these foreign properties in 2015, and 5% in each of 2014 and 2013. See Note 15 Geographic and Business Segment Information in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on revenues in the geographic regions in which we operate.

The lodging industry is viewed as consisting of six different segments, each of which caters to a discrete set of customer tastes and needs: luxury, upper upscale, upscale, midscale (with and without food and beverage service) and economy. Our portfolio primarily consists of luxury and upper upscale properties, which are operated under internationally recognized brand names such as Marriott, Hyatt, Starwood and Accor Hotels. There also has been a trend towards specialized, smaller boutique hotels that are customized towards a particular customer profile. Generally, these properties will be operated by an independent third party and either will have no brand affiliation, or will be associated with a major brand, while maintaining the majority of its independent identity (which we refer to as “soft-branded” properties). We have expanded our investments to include independent and soft-branded properties where we believe it is the best fit for the hotel.

Revenues earned at our hotels consist of three broad categories: rooms, food and beverage, and other revenues. While approximately 64% of our revenue is generated from room sales, many of our properties feature a variety of amenities that help drive demand and profitability. Our hotels typically include meeting and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and lounges, swimming






pools, exercise facilities and/or spas, gift shops and parking facilities,the combination of which enable them to serve business, leisure and group travelers.

Forty-one of our consolidated hotels, representing approximately 66% of our revenues, have in excess of 500 rooms.  The average age of our properties is 30 years, although substantially all of the properties have benefited from significant renovations or major additions, as well as regularly scheduled renewal and replacement expenditures and other capital improvements.

By Brand.The following table details our consolidated hotel portfolio by brand as of February 19, 2016:



NumberPercentage ofBrandof HotelsRoomsRevenues(1)Marriott:Marriott4325,14541.8%Autograph Collection12810.3JW Marriott63,1055.5Residence Inn12990.3Ritz-Carlton62,4037.6Starwood:Westin136,91211.8Sheraton75,7979.3W31,3903.1St. Regis12320.5The Luxury Collection27821.2Hyatt:Grand Hyatt21,3362.3Hyatt Place14260.5Hyatt Regency65,04910.1Hilton:Curio13570.3Hilton25981.0Embassy Suites14550.6FRHI Hotels & ResortsSwissôtel16611.1Fairmont14502.0AccorHotels:ibis36120.3Novotel23040.2Other/Independent23940.210556,988100___________

(1)Percentage of revenues is based on 2015 revenues (revenues of $5,338 million excludes properties owned by our joint ventures in the United States, Europe and the Asia/Pacific region, and sold hotels). No individual property contributed more than 7% of total revenues in 2015.










By Location.The following table details the location and number of rooms at our consolidated hotels as of February 19, 2016:

LocationRoomsLocationRooms

ArizonaIllinois

Scottsdale Marriott Suites Old Town243Chicago Marriott Suites Downers Grove254

Scottsdale Marriott at McDowell Mountains266Chicago Marriott Suites O’Hare256

The Phoenician, A Luxury Collection Resort643Courtyard Chicago Downtown/River North337

The Camby Hotel281Embassy Suites by Hilton Chicago Downtown

The Westin Kierland Resort & Spa732Magnificent Mile455

CaliforniaSwissôtel Chicago661

Axiom Hotel151The Westin Chicago River North429

Coronado Island Marriott Resort & Spa(1)300Indiana

Costa Mesa Marriott253Sheraton Indianapolis Hotel at Keystone Crossing395

JW Marriott Desert Springs Resort & Spa884The Westin Indianapolis575

Hyatt Regency San Francisco Airport789Louisiana

Manchester Grand Hyatt San Diego(1)1,628New Orleans Marriott1,333

Manhattan Beach Marriott(1)385Maryland

Marina del Rey Marriott(1)370Gaithersburg Marriott Washingtonian Center284

Marriott Marquis San Diego Marina(1)1,360Massachusetts

Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa532Boston Marriott Copley Place1,144

Newport Beach Marriott Bayview254Hyatt Regency Cambridge, Overlooking Boston470

San Francisco Marriott Fisherman’s Wharf285Sheraton Boston Hotel1,220

San Francisco Marriott Marquis(1)1,500The Westin Waltham Boston351

San Ramon Marriott(1)368Minnesota

Santa Clara Marriott(1)759Minneapolis Marriott City Center583

Sheraton San Diego Hotel & Marina(1)1,053New Jersey

The Ritz-Carlton, Marina del Rey(1)304Newark Liberty International Airport Marriott(1)591

The Westin Los Angeles Airport(1)740Sheraton Parsippany Hotel370

The Westin Mission Hills Resort & Spa512New York

The Westin South Coast Plaza, Costa Mesa(2)390New York Marriott Downtown513

ColoradoNew York Marriott Marquis1,966

Denver Marriott Tech Center605Sheraton New York Times Square Hotel1,780

Denver Marriott West(1)305The Westin New York Grand Central774

The Westin Denver Downtown430W New York696

FloridaW New York – Union Square270

Tampa Airport Marriott(1)298Ohio

Fort Lauderdale Marriott Harbor Beach ResortThe Westin Cincinnati(1)456

& Spa (1)(3)650Pennsylvania

Hilton Singer Island Oceanfront/Palm BeachesThe Logan357

Resort222Philadelphia Airport Marriott(1)419

Miami Marriott Biscayne Bay(1)600Tennessee

Orlando World Center Marriott2,004Sheraton Memphis Downtown600

The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island446Texas

The Ritz-Carlton, Naples450Houston Airport Marriott at George Bush

The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort, Naples295Intercontinental(1) (3)573

YVE Hotel Miami243Houston Marriott at the Texas Medical Center(1)394

GeorgiaJW Marriott Houston516

Atlanta Marriott Suites Midtown(1)254San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter(1)1,001

Atlanta Marriott Perimeter Center341San Antonio Marriott Riverwalk(1)512

Grand Hyatt Atlanta in Buckhead439The St. Regis Houston232

JW Marriott Atlanta Buckhead371Virginia

The Ritz-Carlton, Buckhead510Hyatt Regency Reston518

The Westin Buckhead Atlanta365Key Bridge Marriott(1)582

HawaiiResidence Inn Arlington Pentagon City299

Hyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa806The Ritz-Carlton, Tysons Corner(1)398

Fairmont Kea Lani, Maui450Washington Dulles Airport Marriott(1)368

Hyatt Place Waikiki Beach426Westfields Marriott Washington Dulles336






WashingtonBrazil (continued)Seattle Airport Marriott459Novotel Rio de Janeiro Parque Olimpico150The Westin Seattle891CanadaW Seattle424Calgary Marriott Downtown388Washington, D.C.Toronto Marriott Downtown Eaton Centre Hotel(1)461Grand Hyatt Washington897ChileHyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill838San Cristobal Tower, Santiago139JW Marriott Washington DC777Sheraton Santiago Hotel and Convention Center379The Westin Georgetown, Washington, D.C.267MexicoWashington Marriott at Metro Center459JW Marriott Hotel Mexico City(3)312AustraliaNew ZealandHilton Melbourne South Wharf(1) (3)376ibis Wellington200BrazilNovotel Christchurch Cathedral Square(1)154ibis Rio de Janeiro Parque Olimpico257ibis Christchurch(1)155JW Marriott Hotel Rio de Janeiro245Total56,988___________

(1)The land on which this hotel is built is leased from a third party under one or more lease agreements.

(2)The land, building and improvements are leased from a third party under a long-term lease agreement.

(3)This property is not wholly owned.








By Market:In 2015, our major markets in the U.S. and internationally represent 90% of our revenues. The following table summarizes the composition of our consolidated hotels as of February 19, 2016 by market based on percentage of 2015 revenues (percentages are based on revenues of $5,338 million, which exclude sold hotels and properties owned by our joint ventures in the United States, Europe and the Asia/Pacific region):

NumberPercentage ofof HotelsRevenuesNortheastBoston46%New York817%1223%Midatlantic/SoutheastWashington, D.C.1210%Atlanta63%Florida912%2725%CentralChicago63%Denver31%Houston42%136%WestSeattle33%San Francisco67%Phoenix54%Los Angeles85%San Diego48%Hawaii35%2932%Other Domestic1210%InternationalAsia-Pacific41%Canada21%Latin America62%124%105100%








By Class:We have focused on investing in the upper-upscale and luxury asset classes, as we believe they have broad appeal for both the leisure and business customer. We also may invest in otherproperty types which we believe have the potential for strong demand growth, including urban select service. The following graph summarizes the composition of the 105 hotels in our consolidated portfolio based on the percentage of 2015 revenues representedby our luxury, upper upscale and other categories (percentages are based on revenues of $5,338 million, which exclude sold hotels and properties owned by our joint ventures in the United States, Europe and the Asia/Pacific region):







By Type:Our focus has been on gateway markets in urban and resort/conference destinations.  The following graph summarizes the composition of the 105 hotels in our consolidated portfolio based on the percentage of 2015 revenues represented by our property type categories (percentages are based on revenues of $5,338 million, which exclude sold hotels and properties owned by our joint ventures in the United States, Europe and the Asia/Pacific region):












Other Real Estate Interests

We own non-controlling interests in several entities that, as of February 19, 2016, owned, or owned an interest in 17 hotel properties, as detailed below. The operations of the properties owned by these entities are not consolidated and are included in equity in earnings in our consolidated results of operations. See Part II Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 3. Investments in Affiliates.”

European Joint Venture.We own a general and limited partnership interest in a joint venture in Europe (“Euro JV”) with APG Strategic Real Estate Pool NV, an affiliate of a Dutch Pension Fund, and Jasmine Hotels Pte Ltd, an affiliate of the real estate investment company of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd (“GIC RE”). The Euro JV consists of two funds, which we refer to as Euro JV Fund I and Euro JV Fund II. We hold a 32.0% limited partner interest and a 0.1% general partner interest in Euro JV Fund I and a 33.3% limited partner interest and a 0.1% general partner interest in Euro JV Fund II. A subsidiary of Host L.P. acts as the asset manager for the hotels owned by the Euro JV, as well as for one hotel in Paris, France, in exchange for a fee. As of February 19, 2016, the Euro JV owns the following hotels:



HotelCityCountryRooms/UnitsFund I:Hotel Arts BarcelonaBarcelonaSpain483The Westin Palace, MadridMadridSpain467Brussels Marriott Hotel Grand PlaceBrusselsBelgium221Fund I total rooms1,171Fund II:Paris Marriott Rive Gauche Hotel & Conference CenterParisFrance757Renaissance Paris La Defense HotelParisFrance327Renaissance Paris Vendome HotelParisFrance97Renaissance Amsterdam HotelAmsterdamThe Netherlands402Le Méridien PiccadillyLondonUnited Kingdom280Sheraton Stockholm HotelStockholmSweden465Sheraton Berlin Grand Hotel EsplanadeBerlinGermany394Fund II total rooms2,722Total European joint venture rooms3,893

Asia/Pacific Joint Venture. We own a 9% indirect interest through joint ventures (the “Asia/Pacific JV”), which own five operating hotels in India and two additional hotels in India currently under development, totaling 1,750 rooms. The seven hotels in India are or will be operated under the Pullman, Novotel and ibis brands.

Other U.S. Real Estate Investments.Our other domestic real estate investments include the following:

●We have a non-controlling 50% interest in a joint venture with White Lodging Services that owns the 255-room Hyatt Place Nashville Downtown in Tennessee.

●We have a non-controlling 67% interest in a joint venture with HV Global Group, a subsidiary of Interval Leisure Group, to develop, sell and operate the Hyatt Ka’anapali Beach, A Hyatt Residence Club, a 131-unit vacation ownership project in Maui, Hawaii adjacent to our Hyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa. The project opened in December 2014.

●We have a non-controlling 11% interest in a joint venture that owns the Philadelphia Marriott Downtown following our January 10, 2014 sale of an 89% interest in the property.






Competition

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

(1)



We believe our properties enjoy competitive advantages associated with the hotel brands under which they operate. The international marketing programs and reservation systems of these brands, combined with the strong management systems and expertise they provide, should enable our properties to perform favorably in terms of both occupancy and room rates. In addition, repeat guest business is enhanced by guest reward or guest recognition programs offered by most of these brands.

We also compete with other REITs and other public and private investors for the acquisition of new properties and investment opportunities, both in domestic and international markets, as we attempt to position our portfolio to best take advantage of changes in markets and travel patterns of our customers.

Seasonality

Our hotel sales traditionally have experienced moderate seasonality, which varies based on the individual property and the region. Hotel sales for our consolidated portfolio averaged approximately 24%, 27%, 24% and 25% for the first, second, third and fourth calendar quarters, respectively, in 2015.

Environmental and Regulatory Matters

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws may impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of hazardous or toxic materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to released hazardous or toxic materials. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require corrective or other expenditures. In connection with our current or prior ownership or operation of hotels, we potentially may be liable for various environmental costs or liabilities. Although currently we are not aware of any material environmental claims pending or threatened against us, we can offer no assurance that a material environmental claim will not be asserted against us in the future.

Employees

As of February 19, 2016 we had 240 employees, of which 226 work in the United States, including our regional offices in Miami and San Diego. We opened our regional offices in 2015 to establish a localized asset management, design and construction and investment presence. We had 8 employees located in our offices in London and Amsterdam. None of Host’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The number of employees referenced above does not include the hotel employees of our 7 hotels in Brazil, New Zealand and Australia, which, while technically Host employees, are under the direct supervision and control of our third-party hotel managers. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not manage employees at our consolidated hotels, we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. We believe relations with the employees of these third party managers are positive. For a discussion of these relationships, see Part I Item 1A. “Risk Factors—We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”



(1)This annual report contains registered trademarks that are the exclusive property of their respective owners, which are companies other than us. None of the owners ofthese trademarks, their affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, agents or employees, has or will have any responsibility or liability for any information contained in this annual report.






Employees at certain of our third-party managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and renewal on a regular basis. For a discussion of these relationships, see Part I Item 1A. “Risk Factors—We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”

Where to Find Additional Information

The address of our principal executive office is 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland, 20817. Our phone number is 240-744-1000. We maintain an internet website at: www.hosthotels.com. Through our website, we make available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with, or furnished to, the SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The public also may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.



