Item 1. Business

Consolidated Portfolio

As of February 18, 2011, we have 120 hotels in
our portfolio, primarily consisting of luxury and upper upscale hotels containing approximately 63,000 rooms as detailed below:



HotelsRoomsUnited States (1)10458,706Brazil1245Canada41,643Chile2518Mexico1312New Zealand71,207United Kingdom1266Total12062,897



(1)Includes properties in 25 states and Washington, D.C.







European Joint Venture

We own a 32.1% interest in a European joint venture that owns 11 luxury and upper upscale hotels containing 3,510 rooms. The hotels owned by the European joint venture are located in the following
countries:



HotelsRoomsItaly31,053Spain2950Belgium3537United Kingdom1350Poland1350The Netherlands1270Total113,510

We are the general partner of the European joint venture and act as the asset manager for these hotels, as
well as an additional 440 room property in Paris, France in exchange for a fee.

Asian Joint Venture

We also own a 25% interest in an Asian joint venture that is in the process of acquiring a 36% interest in a joint venture that is
developing seven properties totaling approximately 1,750 rooms in India. The Indian joint venture agreement is contingent upon receiving certain approvals from the government of India, which are expected to be completed early in 2011. The properties
will be managed by Accor under the Pullman, Novotel and ibis brands and we anticipate that we will act as asset manager for these hotels and other Asian joint venture investments. The first hotel, the ibis Bangalore, is expected to open in the
second quarter of 2011.

Other Real Estate Investments

Our other real estate investments represent less than 1% of our overall assets and less than 5% of our overall revenues. We lease 53 Courtyard by Marriott select-service hotels from Hospitality Properties
Trust (“HPT”) that are located in 24 states in the United States. We have given notice that we intend to terminate these leases on December 31, 2012. Additionally, we own €64 million ($87 million) face amount of the two
most junior tranches of a mortgage note receivable secured by six hotels in Europe, and have non-controlling interests in three partnerships that own a total of one hotel and a golf course.

Where to Find Additional Information

The address of our principal
executive office is 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland, 20817. Our phone number is 240-744-1000. We maintain an internet website at: www.hosthotels.com. Through our website, we make available free of charge as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).

Our website
also is a key source of important information about us. We routinely post to the Investor Relations section of our website important information about our business, our operating results and our financial condition and prospects, including, for
example, information about material acquisitions and dispositions, our earnings releases and certain supplemental financial information related or complimentary thereto. The website also has a Governance page in the Investor Relations section that
includes, among other things, copies of our By-laws, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Conflicts of Interest Policy for our directors, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy for employees, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and
the charters for each standing committee of Host Inc.’s Board of Directors, which currently are the Audit Committee, the Compensation Policy Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Copies of these charters and policies,
Host Inc.’s By-laws and Host L.P.’s partnership agreement are also available in print to stockholders and unitholders upon request to Host Hotels & Resorts, Inc., 6903 Rockledge Drive, Suite 1500, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, Attn:
Secretary. Please note that the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, any document, unless expressly incorporated by reference therein.







The discussion of our Business and Properties should be read in conjunction with the
accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Part II Item 8 of this report.

The Lodging Industry

The lodging industry in the United States consists of private and public entities that operate in an extremely diversified
market under a variety of brand names. The lodging industry has several key participants:



•Owners—own the hotel and typically enter into an agreement for an independent third party to manage the hotel. These properties may be branded and
operated under the manager’s brand or branded under a franchise agreement and operated by the franchisee or by an independent hotel manager. The properties also may be operated as an independent hotel (unaffiliated with any brand) by an
independent hotel manager. We operate as an owner of lodging properties.



•Owner/Managers—own the hotel and operate the property with their own management team. These properties may be branded under a franchise agreement,
operated as an independent hotel (unaffiliated with any brand) or operated under the owner’s brand. We are restricted from operating and managing hotels under applicable REIT rules.



•Franchisors—own a brand or brands and strive to grow their revenues by expanding the number of hotels in their franchise system. Franchisors
provide their branded hotels with brand recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems.



•Franchisor/Managers—own a brand or brands and also operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner or franchisee.



•Manager—operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner, but do not, themselves, own a brand. The hotels may be operated under a franchise agreement
or as an independent hotel unaffiliated with any brand.

The hotel manager is responsible for the day-to-day
operation of the hotels, including the employment of hotel staff, the determination of room rates, the development of sales and marketing plans, the preparation of operating and capital expenditure budgets and the preparation of financial reports
for the owner. They typically receive fees based on the revenues and profitability of the hotel.







Lodging supply growth is generally driven by overall lodging demand, as extended periods of
strong demand growth tend to encourage new development. However, the rate of supply growth also is influenced by a number of additional factors, including the availability of capital, interest rates, construction costs and unique market
considerations. The relatively long lead-time required to complete the development of hotels makes supply growth relatively easier to forecast than demand growth, but increases the volatility of the cyclical behavior of the lodging industry. As
illustrated in the charts below, at different points in the cycle, demand and supply may increase or decrease in a dissimilar manner such that demand may increase when there is no new supply or supply may grow when demand is declining. Beginning in
the second half of 2008, the stress in the credit markets made financing for new hotel construction extremely difficult to obtain. This, coupled with the decline in lodging demand during 2008 and 2009 due to the global economic recession, caused a
significant reduction in new hotel construction starts. As a result, supply growth was relatively low in 2010, and we expect growth to be well below historical averages through 2012, which is consistent with analysis prepared by Smith Travel
Research (STR).

Revenue per available room (“RevPAR”) is an operational measure commonly used in the hotel industry
to evaluate hotel performance. RevPAR represents the product of the average daily room rate charged and the average daily occupancy achieved, but excludes other revenue generated by a hotel property, such as food and beverage, parking and other
guest service revenues.

The charts below detail the historical supply, demand and RevPAR growth for the U.S. lodging industry
and for the upper upscale segment for 2007 to 2010 and forecast data for 2011. Historical industry trends have indicated that hotels in the upper upscale segment have generally outperformed the lodging industry in terms of RevPAR growth over time.
Our portfolio primarily consists of upper upscale hotels and, accordingly, its performance is best understood in comparison to the upper upscale segment rather than the entire industry.

U.S. Lodging Industry Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth









U.S. upper upscale Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth



Business Strategy

Our primary long-term business objective is to provide superior total returns to our equity holders through a combination of appreciation in asset values, growth in earnings and dividend distributions. To
achieve this objective, we seek to:



•Acquire properties in urban and resort/conference destinations that are operated by leading management companies. These investments primarily will be
located in gateway cities with significant appeal to multiple customer segments. While we will continue to focus on luxury and upper upscale hotel properties in our target markets, we intend to expand our investments to include midscale and upscale
properties, particularly in international markets;



•Strategically invest in major repositioning and return on investment (“ROI”) projects in order to maximize the inherent value in our
portfolio;



•Drive operating results at our properties through aggressive asset management;



•Maintain a strong balance sheet with a low leverage level and balanced debt maturities in order to minimize the cost of capital and to maximize our
financial flexibility in order to take advantage of opportunities throughout the lodging business cycle;



•Expand our global portfolio holdings and revenue sources through joint ventures or direct acquisitions that diversify our investments; and



•Dispose of non-core assets, including hotels that are at a competitive risk or that are located in suburban or slower-growth markets.

Acquisitions.Our acquisition strategy focuses on acquiring hotel properties
domestically and internationally at attractive yields that exceed our cost of capital. Domestically, our core acquisition strategy will continue to focus on upper upscale and luxury hotel properties located in the central business districts of key
gateway cities with high barriers to entry as, historically, these properties have demonstrated higher RevPAR growth. In addition, we also are







evaluating opportunities to develop upscale and midscale hotels in similar locations in order to leverage our growth strategy. In the European market, our acquisition targets will continue to be
concentrated in the upper upscale and luxury segments. In the fast-growing emerging markets, primarily Asia-Pacific and South America (particularly Brazil), in addition to acquiring upper upscale properties, we also will pursue the acquisition or
development of midscale and upscale hotels, as we believe the limited supply of quality lodging products in these markets creates an opportunity for solid returns on this type of investment.

We look for opportunities to take advantage of the lodging cycle’s effect on property valuations in order to maximize the potential
to achieve returns in excess of our cost of capital and to diversify our risk. We believe that we are currently in the early stages of a growth period in the lodging cycle which began in the first half of 2010, and we will continue to seek to
opportunistically acquire high-quality lodging properties consistent with our investment strategy.

Repositioning,
Return on Investment Projects and Value Enhancement Projects. We pursue opportunities to enhance asset value by completing select capital improvements outside the scope of typical renewal and replacement capital expenditures. In a typical
year, these investments may represent 50% or more of our capital expenditures.

Repositioning and Acquisition Investments.We strive to optimally position our properties within their respective markets in order to maximize their earnings potential. To that end, we will complete major capital projects that may reposition the property within their competitive set.
These projects include, for example, significant renovations of guest rooms, lobbies or food and beverage platforms and expanding ballroom, spa or conference facilities. These projects are designed to take advantage of changing market conditions and
the favorable location of our properties to enhance customer satisfaction and increase profitability. Similarly, in conjunction with the acquisition of a property, we often will have a capital improvement plan in place that we consider in the
overall evaluation of the investment that we believe will enhance the profitability of the hotel.

Return on Investment
Projects.We also will complete various projects at our properties that are intended to improve the operating performance of the property. These projects are often smaller, more targeted projects that focus on specific areas, such as
adding/renovating spa, restaurant, or meeting space or that are designed to enhance energy efficiency. In certain instances, these ROI projects have coincided with the timing of regular maintenance cycles, where we have used the opportunity to
significantly improve and upgrade the hotel. We also consider the environmental and social impacts of our business operations when planning our capital projects. Working closely with our managers, our design and construction and asset management
teams invest in the most energy efficient and sustainable technologies whenever feasible. Examples are: tri-generation plants; laundry waste water recycling systems; EPA ENERGY STAR® qualified appliances and electronics; EPA WaterSense®
labeled plumbing fixtures; energy efficient lighting; sustainable construction practices; and materials made from recycled content. We also fund our management companies’ sustainability initiatives and encourage the achievement of LEED® and
other green or state level certifications at our hotels.

Value enhancement projects.We seek opportunities to
enhance the value of our portfolio by identifying and executing strategies that maximize the highest and best use of all aspects of our properties, such as the development of timeshare or condominium units on excess land, or the acquisition of air
rights or developer entitlements that add value to our portfolio or enhance the value in the event that we sell the property.

Asset Management.As Host Inc. is the largest REIT owner of luxury and upper upscale properties in the U.S., we
are in a unique position to work with the managers of our hotels in order to maximize revenues, while minimizing operating costs. The size and composition of our portfolio and our affiliation with most of the leading operators and brands in the
industry allow us to benchmark similar hotels and identify best practices and identify efficiencies that can be implemented at our properties. Areas of focus include enhancing revenue management for rooms, food and beverage and other services,
reducing operating costs and identifying operating efficiencies, all of which improve the long-term profitability of the hotel.

Another key component of our asset management strategy focuses on maintaining our high standards for product quality in order to maintain
and enhance our competitiveness in the marketplace. We work closely with our managers to ensure that renewal and replacement expenditures are spent efficiently in order to maximize the







profitability of the hotel. Typically, room refurbishments occur at intervals of approximately seven years, but the timing may vary based on the type of property and equipment being replaced.
These refurbishments generally are divided into the following types: soft goods, case goods and infrastructure. Soft goods include items such as carpeting, bed spreads, curtains and wall vinyl and may require more frequent updates in order to
maintain brand quality standards. Case goods include items such as dressers, desks, couches, restaurant and meeting room chairs and tables and are generally not replaced as frequently. Infrastructure includes the physical plant of the hotel,
including the roof, elevators, façade and fire systems, which are regularly maintained and then replaced at the end of their useful lives.

Capital structure and liquidity profile.As a REIT, Host Inc. is required to distribute 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) to its stockholders, and, as a
result, generally must rely on external sources of capital to finance growth. We use a variety of debt and equity instruments in order to fund our external growth, including senior notes and mortgage debt, exchangeable debentures, common and
preferred stock offerings, issuances of Host L.P. partnership units and joint ventures/limited partnerships to best take advantage of the prevailing market conditions. While we may issue debt at any time in order to take advantage of favorable
market conditions, management believes it is prudent, over time, to continue to lower our leverage level, as we believe lower overall leverage will reduce our cost of capital and earnings volatility and provide us with the necessary flexibility to
take advantage of opportunities throughout the lodging cycle, which we consider a key competitive advantage. In the near-term, as acquisition opportunities become available, we may look to fund the majority of our investments with proceeds from
equity offerings. Also, later in the lodging cycle, we may look to sell assets at opportunistic pricing levels and use the proceeds to further pay down debt or otherwise reinvest the proceeds.

We also look to structure our debt profile to allow us to access different forms of financing, primarily senior notes and exchangeable
debentures, as well as mortgage debt. Generally, this means we will look to minimize the number of assets that are encumbered by mortgage debt, minimize near-term maturities and maintain a balanced maturity schedule.

Joint Ventures.We expect to continue to utilize joint ventures to finance external growth. We believe
joint ventures provide a significant means to access external capital and spread the inherent risk of hotel ownership. Our primary focus for joint ventures is in international markets, such as in Europe and Asia, which will help to diversify
exposure to market risk. We may also explore joint venture opportunities in North America and Latin America.

Dispositions.Our disposition strategy focuses on properties where we believe the potential for growth is constrained
or on properties with significant capital expenditure requirements where we do not believe we would generate a significant return on the investment. Primarily, these properties are located in secondary and tertiary markets, as opposed to our target
markets of urban and resort locations. However, we also may dispose of core assets when we have the opportunity to capitalize on value enhancement strategies and apply the proceeds to other business objectives. Proceeds from dispositions are
deployed to repay debt, fund acquisitions and/or fund ROI/repositioning projects.

Corporate Responsibility

Host’s sustainability strategy integrates fiscal responsibility with environmental and social responsibility. Our continuing
objective is to reduce overall carbon emissions, energy consumption, water use and waste generation in our hotels. We seek to achieve results through capital investments, including the implementation of state-of-the-art technologies, innovative
systems, and encouraging our managers to adopt sustainable operational procedures. Our sustainability corporate practices address property design and renovation with coordinated efforts by our operators and our own internal development, design and
construction teams. We also support the achievement of LEED® Existing Building, Green Seal, and other recognized green certifications at our hotels.

Operating Structure

Host Inc. operates through an umbrella partnership
REIT structure in which substantially all of its properties and assets are held by Host L.P., of which Host Inc. is the sole general partner and holds approximately 98.4% of the outstanding OP units. As a result of the stock dividend issued by Host
Inc. in December 2009, which affected the conversion ratio of OP units to Host Inc. common stock, each OP unit owned by holders other than Host Inc. is







redeemable, at the option of the holder, for an amount of cash equal to the market value of one share of Host Inc. common stock multiplied by a factor of 1.021494 (as opposed to a conversion
factor of 1 share/unit that existed prior to the stock dividend). Host Inc. has the right, however, to acquire any OP unit offered for redemption directly from the holder in exchange for 1.021494 shares of Host Inc. common stock, instead of Host
L.P. redeeming such OP unit for cash. Additionally, for every share of common stock issued by Host Inc., Host L.P. will issue .97895 OP units to Host Inc. As of December 31, 2010, there were 675.6 million outstanding common shares of Host
Inc. and Host Inc. owned 661.4 million units of Host L.P. Additionally, non-controlling partners held 10.5 million OP units, which were convertible into 10.7 million Host Inc. common shares. Assuming that all non-controlling interests
were converted into common shares, there would have been 686.3 million common shares of Host Inc. outstanding at December 31, 2010. When distinguishing between Host Inc. and Host L.P., the primary difference is the approximately 1.6% of OP
units not held by Host Inc. as of February 18, 2011. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Distribution/Dividend Policy”.

Our operating structure is as follows:



Because Host Inc. is a REIT, certain tax laws limit the amount of “non-qualifying” income that
Host Inc. can earn, including income derived directly from the operation of hotels. As a result, we lease substantially all of our consolidated properties to certain of our subsidiaries designated as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”) for
federal income tax purposes or to third party lessees. Our TRS are subject to income tax and are therefore not limited as to the amount of non-qualifying income they can generate. The lessees and our TRS enter into agreements with third parties to
manage the operations of the hotels. Our TRS also may own assets engaging in other activities that produce non-qualifying income, such as the development of timeshare or condominium units, subject to certain restrictions. The difference between the
hotels’ net operating cash flow and the aggregate rents paid to Host L.P. is retained by our TRS as taxable income. Accordingly, the net effect of the TRS leases is that, while, as a REIT, Host Inc. is generally exempt from federal income tax
to the extent that it meets specific distribution requirements, among other REIT requirements, a portion of the net operating cash flow from our properties is subject to federal, state and, if applicable, foreign income tax.







Our Hotel Properties

Overview.We have 120 hotels in our portfolio, primarily consisting of luxury and upper upscale properties. These hotels are generally located in the central business districts of major
cities, near airports and resort/conference destinations that, because of their locations, typically benefit from barriers to entry for new supply. These properties typically include meeting and banquet facilities, a variety of restaurants and
lounges, swimming pools, exercise facilities and/or spas, gift shops and parking facilities, the combination of which enable them to serve business, leisure and group travelers. Forty-four of our hotels, representing approximately 65% of our
revenues, have in excess of 500 rooms. The average age of our properties is 28 years, although substantially all of the properties have benefited from significant renovations or major additions, as well as regularly scheduled renewal and replacement
and other capital improvements.

The following chart details our hotel portfolio by brand as of February 18, 2011:



BrandNumberof HotelsRoomsPercentage ofRevenues(1)Marriott6738,31158%Ritz-Carlton83,0258Starwood:Sheraton75,5859Westin126,1269W31,3793Le Méridien1266—St. Regis12321The Luxury Collection1139—Hyatt63,8567Fairmont14501Four Seasons26081Hilton/Embassy Suites26781Swissôtel16611Delta13741Accoribis3455—Novotel4752—12062,897100%



(1)Percentage of revenues is based on 2010 revenues. No individual property contributed more than 7% of total revenues in 2010.







Hotel Properties. The following table sets forth the location and number
of rooms of our 120 hotels as of February 18, 2011:





LocationRooms

Arizona

Scottsdale Marriott Suites Old Town243

Scottsdale Marriott at McDowell Mountains270

The Ritz-Carlton, Phoenix281

The Westin Kierland Resort & Spa732

California

Coronado Island Marriott Resort (1)300

Costa Mesa Marriott253

JW Marriott Desert Springs Resort & Spa884

Hyatt Regency San Francisco, Burlingame789

Manhattan Beach Marriott (1)385

Marina del Rey Marriott (1)370

Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa532

Newport Beach Marriott Bayview254

San Diego Marriott Hotel & Marina (1)1,360

San Diego Marriott Mission Valley350

San Francisco Airport Marriott685

San Francisco Marriott Fisherman’s Wharf285

San Francisco Marriott Marquis (1)1,499

San Ramon Marriott (1)368

Santa Clara Marriott (1)759

Sheraton San Diego Hotel & Marina (1)1,053

The Ritz-Carlton, Marina del Rey (1)304

The Ritz-Carlton, San Francisco336

The Westin Los Angeles Airport (1)740

The Westin Mission Hills Resort & Spa512

The Westin South Coast Plaza (2)390

Colorado

Denver Marriott Tech Center Hotel628

Denver Marriott West (1)305

The Westin Denver Downtown430

Connecticut

Hartford Marriott Rocky Hill (1)251

Florida

Tampa Airport Marriott (1)296

Harbor Beach Marriott Resort & Spa (1)(3)650

Hilton Singer Island Oceanfront Resort223

Miami Marriott Biscayne Bay (1)600

Orlando World Center Marriott Resort & Convention Center2,000

Tampa Marriott Waterside Hotel & Marina719

The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island444

The Ritz-Carlton, Naples450

The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort, Naples295

Georgia

Atlanta Marriott Marquis1,663

Atlanta Marriott Suites Midtown (1)254

Atlanta Marriott Perimeter Center400

LocationRoomsGeorgia (cont.)Four Seasons Hotel Atlanta244Grand Hyatt Atlanta in Buckhead439JW Marriott Hotel Buckhead Atlanta371The Ritz-Carlton, Buckhead517The Westin Buckhead Atlanta365HawaiiHyatt Regency Maui Resort & Spa onKaanapali Beach806The Fairmont Kea Lani Maui450IllinoisChicago Marriott Suites Downers Grove254Chicago Downtown Courtyard River North337Chicago Marriott O’Hare681Chicago Marriott Suites O’Hare256Embassy Suites Chicago-Downtown/Lakefront455Swissôtel Chicago661The Westin Chicago River North424IndianaSheraton Indianapolis Hotel & Suites (1)560South Bend Marriott298The Westin Indianapolis573LouisianaNew Orleans Marriott1,329MarylandGaithersburg Marriott Washingtonian Center284MassachusettsBoston Marriott Copley Place (1)1,145Hyatt Regency Cambridge470Sheraton Boston Hotel1,220Sheraton Needham Hotel247The Westin Waltham-Boston346MinnesotaMinneapolis Marriott City Center (1)583MissouriKansas City Airport Marriott (1)384New HampshireCourtyard Nashua245New JerseyNewark Liberty International Airport Marriott (1)591Park Ridge Marriott (1)289Sheraton Parsippany Hotel370New YorkNew York Marriott Downtown497New York Marriott Marquis Times Square (4)1,949Sheraton New York Hotel & Towers1,756W New York685









LocationRoomsNew York (cont.)W New York – Union Square (3)270North CarolinaGreensboro-Highpoint Marriott Airport (1)299OhioDayton Marriott399The Westin Cincinnati (1)456OregonPortland Marriott Downtown Waterfront503PennsylvaniaFour Seasons Hotel Philadelphia364Philadelphia Airport Marriott (1)419Philadelphia Marriott Downtown (3)1,408TennesseeMemphis Marriott Downtown600TexasDallas/Addison Marriott Quorum by the Galleria547Houston Airport Marriott (1)565Houston Marriott at the Texas Medical Center (1)386JW Marriott Hotel Houston Galleria515San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter (1)1,001San Antonio Marriott Riverwalk (1)512St. Regis Hotel, Houston232VirginiaHyatt Regency Reston518Key Bridge Marriott (1)582Arlington Pentagon City Residence Inn299The Ritz-Carlton, Tysons Corner (1)398Washington Dulles Airport Marriott (1)368Westfields Marriott Washington Dulles336WashingtonSeattle Airport Marriott459

LocationRoomsWashington (cont.)The Westin Seattle891W Seattle424Washington, D.C.Hyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill834JW Marriott Washington DC772Marriott at Metro Center459The Westin Georgetown, Washington, D.C.267BrazilJW Marriott Rio de Janeiro245CanadaCalgary Marriott384Delta Meadowvale Resort & Conference Centre374Toronto Marriott Airport (3)424Toronto Marriott Downtown Eaton Centre (1)461ChileSan Cristobal Tower, Santiago139Sheraton Santiago Hotel & Convention Center379MexicoJW Marriott Hotel Mexico City (3)312New ZealandNovotel Auckland Ellerslie147ibis Ellerslie100Novotel Wellington139ibis Wellington200Novotel Queenstown Lakeside273Novotel Christchurch Cathedral Square193ibis Christchurch155United KingdomLe Méridien Piccadilly (2)266Total62,897





(1)The land on which this hotel is built is leased from a third party under one or more long-term lease agreements.

(2)The land, building and improvements are leased from a third party under a long-term lease agreement.

(3)This property is not wholly owned.

(4)This property is subject to a ground lease under which we have the option to purchase the land for an incremental payment of $19.9 million through 2017.







Competition

The lodging industry is highly competitive. Competition is often specific to individual markets and is based on a
number of factors, including location, brand, guest facilities and amenities, level of service, room rates and the quality of accommodations. The lodging industry is generally viewed as consisting of six different segments, each of which caters to a
discrete set of customer tastes and needs: luxury, upper upscale, upscale, midscale (with and without food and beverage service) and economy. The classification of a property is based on lodging industry standards, which take into consideration many
factors such as guest facilities and amenities, level of service and quality of accommodations. Most of our hotels operate in urban and resort markets either as luxury properties, under such brand names as Ritz-Carlton®, Fairmont®, Four Seasons®, The Luxury
Collection®, St. Regis®and W®, or as upper upscale
properties, under such brand names as Marriott®, Hyatt®, Westin®, Hilton®, Sheraton®, Le Méridien®,
Swissôtel®and Delta®.(1)Our Asian joint venture recently signed a joint venture agreement
with Accor S.A. and InterGlobe Enterprises Limited to develop seven properties in India that will be managed by Accor under the Pullman®, Novotel®and ibis®brands. While our hotels primarily compete with other hotels in the luxury and upper upscale segments, they also may
compete with hotels in other lower-tier segments.

We believe our properties enjoy competitive advantages associated with the
hotel brands under which they operate. The international marketing programs and reservation systems of these brands, combined with the strong management systems and expertise they provide, should enable our properties to perform favorably in terms
of both occupancy and room rates. In addition, repeat guest business is enhanced by guest reward or guest recognition programs offered by most of these brands. Nevertheless, many management contracts for our hotels do not prohibit our managers from
converting, franchising or developing other hotel properties in our markets. As a result, our hotels in a given market often compete with other hotels that our managers may own, invest in, manage or franchise.

We also compete with other REITs and other public and private investors for the acquisition of new properties and investment
opportunities, both domestically and internationally, as we attempt to position our portfolio to take best advantage of changes in markets and travel patterns of our customers.

Seasonality

Our hotel sales traditionally have experienced moderate
seasonality, which varies based on the individual hotel property and the region. Additionally, hotel revenues for our domestic Marriott-managed hotels typically reflect approximately 16 weeks of results in the fourth quarter compared to
approximately 12 weeks for each of the first three quarters of the fiscal year. For our non-Marriott managed hotels, the first quarter includes two months of operations, the second and third quarters include three months of operations and the fourth
quarter includes four months of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Reporting Periods” for more information on our fiscal calendar. Hotel sales have historically
averaged approximately 20%, 26%, 22% and 32% for the first, second, third and fourth quarters, respectively.



(1)This annual report contains registered trademarks that are the exclusive property of their respective owners, which are companies other than us. None of the owners of
these trademarks, their affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, agents or employees, has or will have any responsibility or liability for any information contained in this annual report.







Other Real Estate Investments

European Joint Venture.We currently own a 32.1% general and limited partnership interest in the European joint venture with
APG Strategic Real Estate Pool NV, a Dutch Pension Fund, and Jasmine Hotels Pte Ltd, an affiliate of the real estate investment company of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd (“GIC RE”). The initial term of the
European joint venture is ten years (ending in 2016), subject to two one-year extensions with partner approval. Due to the ownership structure of the European joint venture and the non-Host limited partners’ unilateral rights to cause the
dissolution and liquidation thereof at any time, the joint venture is not consolidated in our financial statements. We also act as the asset manager for the hotels owned by the European joint venture, as well as one hotel in Paris, France, in
exchange for a fee. As of February 18, 2011, the European joint venture owns the following hotels:



HotelCityCountryRooms/UnitsHotel Arts BarcelonaBarcelonaSpain483The Westin Palace, MadridMadridSpain467The Westin Palace, MilanMilanItaly228The Westin Europa & ReginaVeniceItaly185Sheraton Roma Hotel & Conference CenterRomeItaly640Sheraton Skyline Hotel & Conference CentreHayesUnited Kingdom350Sheraton Warsaw Hotel & TowersWarsawPoland350Renaissance Brussels HotelBrusselsBelgium262Brussels Marriott HotelBrusselsBelgium218Marriott Executive ApartmentsBrusselsBelgium57Crowne Plaza Hotel Amsterdam City CentreAmsterdamThe Netherlands270Total rooms3,510

Asian Joint Venture.We currently own a 25% interest in a joint venture in Asia with
RECO Hotels JV Private Limited, an affiliate of GIC RE. The Asian joint venture is structured as a Singapore Corporation and will explore investment opportunities in various markets throughout Asia, including China, Japan, India, Vietnam and
Australia. The initial term of the Asian joint venture is a period of seven years (ending in 2015). Due to the ownership structure of the Asian joint venture, and our partner’s rights to cause the dissolution and liquidation thereof at any
time, it is not consolidated in our financial statements. On July 20, 2010, the Asian joint venture reached a joint venture agreement with Accor S.A. and InterGlobe Enterprises Limited (the “India joint venture”) to develop seven
properties totaling approximately 1,750 rooms for a total cost of approximately $325 million in three major cities in India: Bangalore, Chennai and Delhi. The Asian joint venture will invest approximately $50 million to acquire approximately
36% of the interest in the India joint venture. The Indian joint venture agreement is contingent upon receiving certain approvals from the government of India, which are expected to be completed early in 2011. The properties will be managed by Accor
under the Pullman, Novotel and ibis brands. Development of the properties is underway, and the ibis Bangalore is expected to open in the second quarter of 2011.

Other Investments.In addition to the joint ventures described above, we have the following real estate investments:



•On April 13, 2010, we acquired, at a discount, the two most junior tranches of a €427 million ($581 million) mortgage loan that is
secured by six hotels located in Europe, with a face value of €64 million ($87 million).



•We own a leasehold interest in 53 Courtyard by Marriott properties which were sold to HPT and leased back to us in 1995. In conjunction with our
conversion to a REIT, in 1999 we entered into a sublease with respect to these properties with a third party on similar terms, with initial terms expiring in 2012. We terminated the subleases effective July 6, 2010 and subsequently act as the
owner under the management agreements.



•We own a 49% limited partner interest in Tiburon Golf Ventures, L.P., which owns the golf club surrounding The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort, Naples.







For additional detail of our other real estate investments, including a summary of the
outstanding debt balances of our affiliates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Investments in Affiliates” and Note 3 “Investments in Affiliates” and Note 7
“Leases” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Foreign Operations

Excluding hotels owned by our European joint venture, as of December 31, 2010, we own one property in Brazil, four in Canada, one in
the United Kingdom, one in Mexico and two in Chile, which collectively contain approximately 3,000 rooms. Approximately 4% of our revenues were attributed to the operations of these properties in 2010 and 3% in each of 2009 and 2008. Additionally,
subsequent to year end, we acquired seven hotels in New Zealand. See Note 16 “Geographic and Business Segment Information” for information related to our operations and information regarding geographic areas.

Environmental and Regulatory Matters

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of
hazardous or toxic substances. These laws may impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws and common law
principles could be used to impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to released asbestos-containing
materials. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require corrective or other expenditures. In connection with our current or prior
ownership or operation of hotels, we may be potentially liable for various environmental costs or liabilities. Although we are currently not aware of any material environmental claims pending or threatened against us, we can offer no assurance that
a material environmental claim will not be asserted against us in the future.

Operational Agreements

All of our hotels are managed by third parties pursuant to management agreements or operating and license agreements (See
“—Operating Structure”). As of December 31, 2010, 25 of our hotels are operated by Starwood or other managers pursuant to operating and license agreements, while our remaining hotels are operated pursuant to management
agreements, the provisions of which are described in more detail below. Under these agreements, the managers or operators generally have sole responsibility and exclusive authority for all activities necessary for the day-to-day operation of the
hotels, including establishing all room rates, processing reservations, procuring inventories, supplies and services, providing periodic inspection and consultation visits to the hotels by the managers’ technical and operational experts and
promoting and publicizing the hotels. The manager or operator provides all managerial and other employees for the hotels, reviews the operation and maintenance of the hotels, prepares reports, budgets and projections, and provides other
administrative and accounting support services to the hotels. These support services include planning and policy services, financial planning, divisional financial services, product planning and development, employee staffing and training, corporate
executive management and certain in-house legal services. For the majority of our properties, we have approval rights over the budget, capital expenditures and other matters.

Management Agreements.Our management agreements, which include the agreements for our hotels managed by Marriott, typically include the terms described below:



•Term and fees for operational services. The initial term of our management agreements generally is 15 to 20 years, with one or more renewal
terms at the option of the manager. The manager receives compensation in the form of a base management fee, which is calculated as a percentage (typically 2-3%) of annual gross revenues, and an incentive management fee, which is typically calculated
as a percentage (generally 10-20%) of operating profit after the owner has received a priority return on its investment in the hotel.







•Chain services. Managers are required to provide chain services that are generally furnished on a centralized basis. Such services include:
(1) the development and operation of certain computer systems and reservation services, (2) regional management and administrative services, regional marketing and sales services, regional training services, manpower development and
relocation of regional personnel, and (3) such additional central or regional services as may from time to time be more efficiently performed on a regional or group basis rather than on an individual hotel basis. Costs and expenses incurred in
providing these services are generally allocated among all hotels managed by the manager or its affiliates that benefit from these services.



•Working capital and fixed asset supplies. We are required to maintain working capital for each hotel and to fund the cost of certain fixed
asset supplies (for example, linen, china, glassware, silver and uniforms). We also are responsible for providing funds to meet the cash needs for hotel operations if at any time the funds available from hotel operations are insufficient to meet the
financial requirements of the hotels.



•Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements. We are required to provide the managers with all necessary furniture, fixtures and
equipment for the operation of the hotels (including funding any required furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements). On an annual basis, the manager will prepare a list of furniture, fixtures and equipment to be acquired and certain routine
repairs and maintenance to be performed in the next year and an estimate of the funds that are necessary, which is subject to our review and approval. For purposes of funding the furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements, a specified percentage
(typically 5%) of the gross revenues of the hotel is deposited by the manager into an escrow account in our name, to which the manager has access. However, for 62 of our hotels, we have entered into an agreement with Marriott International, Inc. to
allow us to fund such expenditures directly as incurred from one account that we control, subject to maintaining a minimum balance of the greater of $35.8 million, or 30% of total annual specified contributions, rather than escrowing funds into
accounts at each hotel.



•Building alterations, improvements and renewals. The managers are required to prepare an annual estimate of the expenditures necessary for
major repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and elevators of each hotel, which we review and approve based on their recommendations
and our judgment. In addition to the foregoing, the manager may propose such changes, alterations and improvements to the hotel as are required, in the manager’s reasonable judgment, to keep the hotel in a competitive, efficient and economical
operating condition, consistent with the manager’s brand standards. We generally have approval authority over such changes, alterations and improvements.



•Service marks. During the term of the management agreements, the brand name, service mark, symbols and logos used by the manager may be
used in the operation of the hotel. Any right to use the brand name, service marks, logos and symbols and related trademarks at a hotel will terminate with respect to that hotel upon termination of the applicable management or franchise agreement.



•Sale of the hotel.We are generally limited in our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels by requiring that the transferee
assume the related management agreements and meet specified other conditions, including the condition that the transferee not be a competitor of the manager.



•Termination on sale. While most of our management agreements are not terminable prior to their full term, we have negotiated termination
rights with respect to 18 specified Marriott-branded hotels in connection with the sale of these hotels subject to certain limitations, including the number of agreements that can be terminated per year, limitations measured by EBITDA and
limitations requiring that a significant part of such hotels maintain the Marriott brand affiliation. The described termination rights may be exercised without payment of a termination fee, except for one of the specified hotels, wherein a
termination fee is required if it does not maintain the Marriott brand affiliation.



•Performance termination. We generally have termination rights in the case of a manager’s prolonged failure to meet certain financial
performance criteria, usually a set return on the owners’ investment. We







have agreed in the past, and may agree in the future, to waive certain of these termination rights in exchange for consideration from the hotel manager, which consideration could take the form of
cash compensation or amendments to the management agreement. Similarly, the majority of our management agreements condition the manager’s right to renew pre-determined extension terms to the satisfaction of certain financial performance
criteria.

Operating and License Agreements.Our operating and license agreements with Starwood
(the operator with which we have the vast majority of these agreements) typically include the terms described below:



•Term and fees for operational services. The initial term of our operating agreements is 20 years, with two renewal terms of 10 years each
at the option of the operator. The operator receives compensation in the form of a base fee of 1% of annual gross operating revenues and an incentive fee of 20% of annual gross operating profit, after the owner has received a priority return of
10.75% on its purchase price and other investments in the hotels.



•License services. The license agreements address matters relating to the subject brand, including rights to use service marks, logos,
symbols and trademarks, such as those associated with Westin®, Sheraton®and W®, as well as matters relating to compliance with certain standards and policies and (including through other agreements in the case of certain hotels) the provision of
certain system program and centralized services. The license agreements have an initial term of 20 years each, with two renewal terms of 10 years each at the option of the licensor. Licensors receive compensation in the form of license fees of 5% of
gross operating revenue attributable to room sales and 2% of gross operating revenue attributable to food and beverage sales.



•Programs and services. The licensor or operator provides certain system programs and services to all or substantially all of our Starwood
hotels by brand in a licensed area. Such services include participation in reservation services and the marketing program, as well as the Starwood Preferred Guest Program. In addition to these services, under the operating agreements, centralized
operating services are furnished to hotels by brand on a system basis. Costs and expenses incurred in providing such system programs and services and centralized operating services under the license and operating agreements or other agreements are
fairly allocated among all hotels in the applicable brand operated or licensed by Starwood or its affiliates.



•Working capital and fixed asset supplies. We are required to maintain working capital funds for each hotel in order to fund the cost of
certain fixed asset supplies and to meet the ongoing cash needs for hotel operations if at any time the funds available from hotel operations are insufficient to meet the financial requirements of the hotels. For 18 of our hotels, the working
capital accounts which would otherwise be maintained by Starwood operators for each of such hotels are maintained on a pooled basis, with operators being authorized to make withdrawals from such pooled account as otherwise contemplated with respect
to working capital in accordance with the provisions of the operating agreements.





•



Furniture, fixtures and equipment replacements







•Building alterations, improvements and renewals. The operators are required to prepare an annual operating plan that includes an estimate
of the expenditures necessary for maintenance, repairs, alterations, improvements, renewals and replacements to the structural, mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing and elevators of each hotel, which plan and
proposed expenditures we review and approve based on the operator’s recommendations and our judgment.



•Territorial. The operating agreements provide area restrictions for a period of either five or 10 years, which limit the operator and its
affiliates from owning, operating or licensing a hotel of the same brand in the area. The area restrictions vary with each hotel, from city blocks in urban areas to up to a 10-mile radius from the hotel in other areas.



•Sale of the hotel/other. We are limited in our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels under the license agreements.
Generally, the agreements require that the transferee assume the related operating agreement and meet specified other conditions, including the condition that the transferee not be a competitor of the licensor. The operating agreements provide for
termination rights beginning in 2016 in the case of the operator’s failure to meet certain financial performance criteria. Generally, such rights arise in the event that the operator fails, for two consecutive years, to generate operating
profit equal to or greater than a specified percentage of the owner’s investment in the hotel, and the RevPAR performance of the hotel falls below that of other competitive hotels in the market during such two-year period.



•Termination on sale. As of December 31, 2010, we have termination rights relating to the operating agreements on ten specified hotels
upon the sale of those hotels. Such termination rights are currently active with respect to one such hotel. With respect to nine of the ten specified hotels, we have the right beginning in 2016 to sell 35% of such hotels (measured by EBITDA), not to
exceed two hotels annually, free and clear of the existing operating agreement over a period of time without the payment of a termination fee. With respect to any termination of an operating agreement on sale, the proposed purchaser would need to
meet the requirements for transfer under the applicable license agreement.



•International hotel.The operating and license agreements with Starwood for one of our international hotels provide for similar services as
noted above, however the term is for 15 years, with no renewal option, and calls for a combined base and license fee equal to three percent of total revenues.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had 203 employees, including
187 at our Bethesda, Maryland office, five at our London, England office, three at our Amsterdam, The Netherlands office and eight at our Republic of Singapore office. Employees at our consolidated hotels are employed by the operators that manage
our hotels.

None of our direct employees as of December 31, 2010 are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
However, employees at certain of our third-party managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and renewal on a regular basis. For a discussion of these relationships see “Risk Factors—We are
subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.”







