Item 1.Business.



T. Rowe Price Group is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the sponsored T. Rowe Price mutual funds distributed in the United States and other investment portfolios, including separately managed accounts, subadvised funds, and other sponsored investment portfolios, including collective investment trusts, target-date retirement trusts, Luxembourg-based funds offered to investors outside the United States, and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S.



The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group corporate holding company structure was established in 2000.



We derive the vast majority of our consolidated net revenue and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price International Ltd. Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations. AtDecember 31, 2013, we had$692.4 billionin assets under management, including$435.3 billionin the T. Rowe Price U.S. mutual funds and$257.1 billionin other investment portfolios.



Our assets under management are accumulated from a diversified client base across four primary distribution channels: third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios in the U.S. and other countries; individual U.S. investors on a direct basis; U.S. defined contribution retirement plans; and institutional investors globally. As ofDecember 31, 2013, nearly forty-four percent of our assets under management are sourced from our third-party financial intermediary distribution channel with the remaining three distribution channels equally comprising the balance. We service clients in 39 countries around the world.



The assets we manage are a broad range of U.S. and international stock, blended asset, bond, and money market mutual funds and other investment portfolios that are designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of individual and institutional investors. Investors select from among the mutual funds based on the distinct objective that is described in each fund’s prospectus and can exchange balances among the funds as permitted when economic and market conditions and their investment needs change. Investment management of other client portfolios includes approaches similar to those employed in the Price funds.



Investment objectives for our managed investment portfolios, including the Price funds, accommodate a variety of strategies. Equity investment strategies may emphasize large-cap, mid-cap or small-cap investing; growth, value or core investing; and U.S., global, multi-regional and regional international, emerging market, and sector investing. We offer systematic, tax-efficient, blended equity, and asset allocation investment strategies, including target-date retirement investment portfolios. Our fixed income strategies may focus on high yield, U.S. taxable bond, taxable low-duration, international, and municipal tax-free investing. Our specialized advisory services include management of stable value investment contracts and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities our clients receive from third-party venture capital investment pools.



We employ fundamental and quantitative security analysis in the performance of the investment advisory function through substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financial and other information, financial newspapers and magazines, corporate rating services, and field checks with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business sector. Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the U.S. and England with additional staff based in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our securities selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analysis using computerized data modeling.



From time to time, we introduce new funds and other investment portfolios to complement and expand our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will introduce a new investment strategy if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and that its objective will be useful for investors over a long period. Conversely, we may also limit new investments into a mutual fund or investment mandates in order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to



Page2






protect the interests of its existing fund shareholders and investors. At present, the following mutual funds are closed to new investors.

FundDate ClosedInstitutional Mid-Cap Equity Growth FundDecember 8, 2003Mid-Cap Growth FundMay 31, 2010Mid-Cap Value FundMay 31, 2010High Yield FundApril 27, 2012Institutional High Yield FundApril 27, 2012Institutional Small-Cap Stock FundDecember 31, 2013New Horizons FundDecember 31, 2013Small-Cap Stock FundDecember 31, 2013



We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, distribution, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in our sponsored mutual funds; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; and trust services. Substantially all of our administrative and distribution and servicing fee revenues in2013were determined based generally on the recovery of our related costs to provide these services. Therefore, changes in our administrative revenues, distribution and servicing fees, and related expenses generally do not significantly affect our net operating income or net income.



We also offered federally insured certificates of deposit to our clients through our savings bank subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Savings Bank, which was sold on December 5, 2013. Additional information concerning the sale of our savings bank subsidiary is contained in Note 4 of our consolidated financial statements which are included in Item 8 of this report.



2013DEVELOPMENTS.



U.S. stocks produced excellent returns in2013, including the S&P 500 Stock Index which was up32.4%and the NASDAQ Composite Index, which is heavily weighted in technology companies, which returned38.3%. Equities in developed non-U.S. markets underperformed U.S. shares in2013but still produced very good returns while emerging markets equities fell slightly. Global bonds produced mostly negative returns in2013as interest rates rose during the year.



Our 2013 results include net revenues of nearly$3.5 billion, net income of$1.05 billion, and diluted earnings per share of$3.90, an increase of16.1%from the$3.36per share earned in2012. Assets under management ended2013at a record$692.4 billion, an increase of$115.6 billionfrom the end of2012. Market appreciation drove this increase as$127.6 billionin market gains and income, net of distributions not reinvested, were reduced by net cash outflows of$12.0 billionin the year. Net cash inflows of$10.2 billioninto the Price funds were more than offset by net cash outflows of$22.2 billionfrom our other investment portfolios. The vast majority of these net outflows from our other investment portfolios were concentrated among several large institutional clients outside the U.S. and intermediary clients that changed their investment objectives, repositioned their strategy allocations, or experienced investment performance challenges within their portfolio. A large portion of the outflows were from one international institutional client.



Page3






Our assets under management (in billions) atDecember 31, 2013, categorized by mandate and account type are as follows:



Assets under management by mandateU.S. stocks and blended asset$461.7International stocks and blended asset75.3Total stock and blended asset portfolios537.0U.S. fixed income136.6International fixed income18.8Total fixed income portfolios155.4$692.4Assets under management by account typeRetirement accounts and variable annuity portfolios$396.5Other295.9$692.4



Non-U.S. dollar denominated securities held in client accounts are$96.3 billion, or13.9%of our total assets under management atDecember 31, 2013. Investors domiciled outside the U.S. represent6.5%of total assets under management at the end of2013.



Our target-date retirement portfolios, which provide shareholders with single, diversified portfolios that invest in underlying Price funds and other investment portfolios, continue to be a significant source of our asset growth. In 2013,$11.5 billionof our net cash flows originated in these portfolios. Assets under management in these portfolios were$121.2 billionatDecember 31, 2013, including$105.1 billionin target-date retirement funds and$16.1 billionin target-date retirement trusts. These target-date retirement portfolios account for17.5%of our managed assets atDecember 31, 2013, compared with15.4%at the end of2012.



Six Price funds -Growth Stock,Equity Income,Mid-Cap Growth,Blue-Chip Growth,Value,Capital Appreciation- accounted for25%of our investment advisory revenues in2013, and22%of our assets under management atDecember 31, 2013. Our largest client account relationship apart from the Price funds is with a third-party financial intermediary that accounted for about3%of our investment advisory revenues in2013.



Strong investment performance and brand awareness is a key driver to attracting assets and to our long-term success. As of the end of2013,76%of the T. Rowe Price U.S. mutual funds across their share classes outperformed their comparable Lipper averages on a total return basis for thethree-yearperiod,77%outperformed for thefive-yearperiod,82%outperformed for the10-yearperiod, and71%outperformed for theone-yearperiod. In addition, T. Rowe Price stock, bond and blended asset funds that were given an overall rating of four or five stars from Morningstar atDecember 31, 2013, account for78%of our rated funds' assets under management. The performance of our institutional strategies against their benchmarks was substantially similar. Our target-date retirement funds continue to deliver very attractive long-term performance, with100%of these funds outperforming their comparable Lipper averages on a total return basis for the three- and five-year periods endedDecember 31, 2013.



AtDecember 31, 2013, we remain debt-free with substantial liquidity and resources, including cash and fund investment holdings of$3.0 billion. We presently plan to declare and pay quarterly cash dividends in2014that, taken together, will exceed the$1.52per share in annual regular dividends declared and paid in2013; however, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at increasing rates or at all. Our total capital expenditures for property and equipment in2014are expected to be approximately$145 million. We generally repurchase shares of our common stock over time to offset the dilution created by our equity-based compensation plans. Our substantial liquidity and resources also allow us to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities; invest in key capabilities, including investment professionals, technologies, and new investment strategy offerings; and, most importantly, provide our clients with strong investment management expertise and service both now and in the future. In the coming years, we expect to increase funding for long-term initiatives to sustain and deepen our investment talent, expand capabilities through enhanced technology, and broaden our distribution reach globally, including Italy and Germany.





Page4






Additional information concerning our revenues, results of operations and total assets, and our assets under management during the past three years is contained in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K as well as our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this report.



PRICE FUNDS.



We provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to the Price funds under various agreements. Investment advisory services are provided to each fund under individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T. Rowe Price name. The boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940), must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders must approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Independent directors and trustees of the Price funds regularly review our fee structures.



Advisory Services.



Investment advisory revenues earned from the Price funds are determined daily based on the net assets managed in each fund. The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the Price funds is computed on a daily basis by multiplying a fund’s net assets by its effective fee rate. Details of each fund’s fee arrangement are available in its prospectus.



For the majority of the Price funds, the fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group fee rate plus an individual fund rate. The tiered group rate is based on the combined net assets of nearly all of the Price funds. When combined net assets of these Price funds exceeds$400 billion, the weighted-average fee across pricing tiers is29.5 basis pointsfor the first$400 billionof net assets plus27.5 basis pointsfor net assets in excess of$400 billion. To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds included in the group rate calculation increase, the group charge component of a fund's advisory fee rate and the resulting advisory fee rate paid by each fund will decrease.



The individual fund rates are generally flat rates that are set based on the fund’s specific investment objective. Several funds, including the Blue Chip Growth, Equity Income, Growth Stock and Mid-Cap Growth funds, have an effective tiered individual fund rate in which their base individual flat rate is reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $15 billion. The effective fee rates for those stock and bond funds we earned advisory fees of at least$6.0 millionfrom in2013varied from a low of40basis points for the Maryland Tax-Free Bond, Tax-Free Short-Intermediate, and Short-Term Bond funds to a high of105basis points for the Emerging Markets Stock, International Discovery, and Latin America funds.



The fee rate of several of the Price funds, including the Index and Summit funds as well as specific funds offered solely to institutional investors, do not include a group fee component but rather an individual fund fee or an all-inclusive fee. An all-inclusive fee covered both the investment management fee and ordinary operating expenses incurred by the fund. Each of the funds in the series of Spectrum Funds, and in the series of target-date retirement funds that we offer invest in a diversified portfolio of other Price funds and have no separate investment advisory fee; however, they indirectly bear the expenses of the funds in which they invest.



We continued to voluntarily waive a portion of the advisory fees in2013of all of our money market funds and trusts in order to maintain a positive yield for fund investors. Advisory fees waived in2013totaled$51.2 million, or about2%of total investment advisory revenues earned in2013, compared to$35.0 millionin2012. We expect that these fee waivers will continue in2014.



Each Price fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses.



We usually provide that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other mutual fund expenses in excess of these self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the waived fees and absorbed costs, but such recovery is not assured.



Page5






Assets under Management



AtDecember 31, 2013, assets under our management in the Price funds aggregated$435.3 billion, an increase of25.5%or$88.4 billionfrom the beginning of the year. The following table presents the net assets (in billions) and the year of formation of our largest Price funds (net assets in excess of$1.0 billionatDecember 31, 2013) at December 31.



20122013Stock and blended asset funds:Balanced (1991)$3.1$3.7Blue Chip Growth (1993)15.422.8Capital Appreciation (1986)13.619.1Dividend Growth (1992)2.84.1Emerging Markets Stock (1995)7.17.1Equity Income (1985)24.329.5Equity Index 500 (1990)15.620.2European Stock (1990).81.5Growth & Income (1982)1.21.5Growth Stock (1950)30.441.6Health Sciences (1995)5.08.6Institutional Emerging Markets Equity (2002)1.01.0Institutional Large-Cap Growth (2001)5.79.7Institutional Large-Cap Value (2000)1.01.6Institutional Mid-Cap Equity Growth (1996)2.94.2Institutional Small-Cap Stock (2000)1.01.6International Discovery (1988)2.93.5International Growth & Income (1998)6.19.0International Stock (1980)9.912.3Latin America (1993)1.81.1Media & Telecommunications (1993)2.33.3Mid-Cap Growth (1992)18.023.2Mid-Cap Value (1996)9.311.6New America Growth (1985)3.64.5New Asia (1990)4.74.6New Era (1969)4.44.3New Horizons (1960)9.715.8Overseas Stock (2006)5.47.5Personal Strategy Balanced (1994)1.41.7Personal Strategy Growth (1994)1.01.3Personal Strategy Income (1994).91.0Real Assets (2010)2.93.7Real Estate (1997)3.63.7Science & Technology (1987)2.53.4Small-Cap Stock (1992)7.410.3Small-Cap Value (1988)7.810.2Value (1994)13.618.2Other stock and blended asset funds6.89.7256.9341.7



Page6






20122013Bond and money market funds:Emerging Markets Bond (1994)4.03.9GNMA (1985)1.81.5High Yield (1984)9.39.8Inflation Focused Bond (2006)3.85.3Institutional Floating Rate (2008)2.33.2Institutional High Yield (2002)2.62.9International Bond (1986)5.35.0Maryland Tax-Free Bond (1987)2.11.8New Income (1973)19.821.3Prime Reserve (1976)5.96.4Short-Term Bond (1984)6.36.4Summit Cash Reserves (1993)5.45.7Summit Municipal Intermediate (1993)2.33.0Tax-Free High Yield (1985)2.62.2Tax-Free Income (1976)3.12.4Tax-Free Short-Intermediate (1983)1.91.9U.S. Treasury Money (1982)2.02.0Other bond and money market funds9.58.990.093.6$346.9$435.3



The Spectrum Funds, Target Retirement Funds, and Retirement Date Funds are not presented in the table above because their assets are already included in their underlying fund holdings.



Our operating subsidiaries invest in many of the T. Rowe Price funds.



Administrative Services.



Our subsidiaries provide advisory-related administrative services to the Price funds and their shareholders. T. Rowe Price Services provides mutual fund transfer agency and shareholder services, including maintenance of staff, facilities, technology, and other equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. T. Rowe Price Associates provides mutual fund accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of financial statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities, and computation of daily net asset values per share. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting, plan administration, and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in both the Price funds and funds outside the Price fund complex. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some of the administrative services while the Price funds compensate us for maintaining and administering the individual participant accounts for those plans that invest in the Price funds.



We provide trustee services through our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Trust Company, a Maryland-chartered limited service trust company. Through this entity, we offer collective investment trusts for investment by qualified retirement plans and serve as trustee for employer sponsored retirement plans and other retirement products. T. Rowe Price Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans.



We also provide non-discretionary advisory planning services to fund shareholders and potential investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services. These services are limited in scope and include retirement planning services, such as saving for retirement, transitioning into retirement, and income in retirement. An investment portfolio evaluation service is an integral part of these services. An ongoing checkup service is also available to assist an investor in remaining on track to achieve their financial goals.



Page7






Distribution and Servicing.



Each of the Price funds has a distinct investment objective that has been developed as part of our strategy to provide a broad, comprehensive selection of investing opportunities. The Investor class of all Price funds can be purchased in the U.S. on a no-load basis, without a sales commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy method of directly investing in a variety of stock and fixed income portfolios.



Certain of the Price funds also offer Advisor and R classes of shares that are distributed to mutual fund shareholders, and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively, through third-party financial intermediaries. These share classes pay 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services. In addition, those Price funds offered to investors through variable annuity life insurance plans have a share class that pays a 12b-1 fee of 25 basis points. Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment Services, is the principal distributor of the Price funds and enters into a tri-party agreement with each intermediary and fund. Under the agreement, each fund is responsible to pay the distribution and service fees directly to the applicable intermediaries.



In accounting for 12b-1 fees, the applicable mutual fund share classes incur the related expense and we recognize the corresponding distribution and servicing fee revenue in our consolidated statements of income. We also recognize, as distribution and servicing costs in the consolidated statements of income, the corresponding cost paid to the third-party financial intermediaries who distribute these fund share classes. The fee revenue that we recognize from the funds and the expense that we recognize for the fees paid to third-party intermediaries are equal in amount and, therefore, do not impact our net operating income.



We believe that our lower fund cost structure, distribution methods, and fund shareholder and administrative services help promote the stability of our fund assets under management through market cycles.



Except as noted above for 12b-1 fees, we bear all advertising and promotion expenses associated with the distribution of the Price funds. These costs are recognized currently, and include advertising and direct mail communications to potential fund shareholders as well as substantial staff and communications capabilities to respond to investor inquiries. Marketing and promotional efforts are focused in print media, television, and the Internet. In addition, we direct considerable marketing efforts to defined contribution plans that invest in mutual funds. Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor interest, market conditions, new and existing investment offerings, and the development and expansion of new marketing initiatives, including enhancements to our website.



OTHER INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS.



Our other client investment portfolios had assets under management of$257.1 billionatDecember 31, 2013, an increase of$27.2 billionfrom the beginning of the year. We provide investment advisory services to these clients through our subsidiaries on a separately managed or subadvised account basis and through sponsored investment portfolios, including collective investment trusts, target-date retirement trusts, Luxembourg-based funds offered to investors outside the U.S. and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. At December 31, these portfolios included the following investment mandates:



20122013U.S. equities$140.5$171.5International equities23.723.8Stable value assets18.917.6Bonds and money market securities46.844.2$229.9$257.1



We charge fees for investment management to these clients based on, among other things, the specific investment services to be provided. Our standard form of investment advisory agreement for client accounts provides that the agreement may be terminated at any time and that any unearned fees paid in advance will be refunded.



Our fees for managing these investment portfolios are computed using the value of assets under our management at a contracted annual fee rate. The value of assets under management billed is generally based on daily valuations, month-end



Page8






average valuations, or end of billing period valuations. In2013, approximately65%of advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio valuations,16%were based on month-end averages, and18%were based on end of billing period valuations.



Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price International provides sales, distribution and market services to our Luxembourg-based T. Rowe Price Funds SICAV, a self-managed Société d'Investissement à Capital Variable. The funds underlying this entity are distributed outside the U.S. by T. Rowe Price International and through distribution agents and other financial intermediaries. The fees earned for these distribution and marketing services are part of the overall investment management fee T. Rowe Price International earns for managing the SICAV fund assets. We recognize any related distribution fees paid to financial intermediaries in other operating expenses.



REGULATION.



T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, T. Rowe Price (Canada), T. Rowe Price Hong Kong Limited,

T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd. and T. Rowe Price Advisory Services are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. T. Rowe Price International is also regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom and, in certain cases, by other foreign regulators. The Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) and Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) also regulate T. Rowe Price Hong Kong and T. Rowe Price Singapore, respectively. T. Rowe Price (Canada) is also registered with several of the provincial securities commissions in Canada. T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl, the management company of our Luxembourg-based FCP (Fonds Commun de Placement) funds is regulated by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF).



Our subsidiaries providing transfer agent services are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and our trust company is regulated by the State of Maryland, Commissioner of Financial Regulation.



T. Rowe Price Investment Services is a registered broker-dealer and member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. We provide introducing brokerage services through this subsidiary primarily to complement the other services provided to shareholders of the Price funds. Pershing, a third-party clearing broker and affiliate of the Bank of New York, maintains our brokerage’s customer accounts and clears all transactions.



On December 5, 2013, T. Rowe Price Associates completed its previously announced sale of 100% of the stock of T. Rowe Price Savings Bank to a non-affiliated third party; the new owner thereupon changed the name and headquarters location of the bank. Due to the sale of the stock, T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price Group no longer meet the definition of a “savings and loan holding company,” as defined in the Home Owners' Loan Act, and we have requested confirmation from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond that the companies have been de-registered as such.



All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients and the Price funds' shareholders. They generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the event that we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on us in the event that we fail to comply include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our investment adviser and other registrations, censures, and fines.



Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements including those of various federal, state, and international regulatory agencies. Each of our subsidiaries’ net capital, as defined, meets or exceeds all minimum requirements.



For further discussion of the potential impact of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements, please see the Legal and Regulatory risk factors included in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



COMPETITION.



As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of proprietary and other sponsors’ mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, and other financial institutions and funds in all aspects of our business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review



Page9






acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to the acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship.



EMPLOYEES.



AtDecember 31, 2013, we employed5,668associates, up5.5%from the5,372associates employed at the end of2012. We may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and mutual fund administrative services.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION.

Our Internet address is www.troweprice.com. At our Investor Relations website, http://trow.client.shareholder.com, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain our websites as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us and as a channel of distribution for material company information, including but not limited to:

•our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with, or furnish them to the SEC;



•our financial statement information from our periodic SEC filings in the form of XBRL data files that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted investor analysis;



•corporate governance information including our charter, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, code of ethics and conduct and other governance-related policies;



•other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting; and



•opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time.



The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.





