Item 1.Business.



GENERAL.



T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to investors worldwide. We provide an array ofT. Rowe Price U.S. mutual funds(Price Funds),other T. Rowe Price investment products, subadvisory services, separate account management, recordkeeping, and related services to individuals, advisors, institutions, financial intermediaries, and retirement plan sponsors. We are focused on delivering global investment management excellence to help clients around the world achieve their long-term investment goals.



The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group corporate holding company structure was established in 2000.



We derive the vast majority of our consolidated net revenue and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price International Ltd. Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations. AtDecember 31, 2017, we had$991.1 billionin assets under management, including$606.3 billionin theT. Rowe Price U.S. mutual fundsand$384.8 billioninother investment products.



2017FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS.



U.S. stocks posted excellent returns in2017. In fact, it was the ninth consecutive year of positive total returns for the S&P 500 Index. Most major stock indexes finished the year near record highs amid expectations that the new U.S. tax law would lift corporate profits and add to U.S. economic growth in 2018. The S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index, which is heavily weighted in technology companies, returned21.8%and28.2%, respectively, in2017. Developed non-U.S. equity markets outperformed the broad U.S. market in2017, as a weaker dollar enhanced returns to U.S. investors. Global bond returns were mostly positive in2017.



The table below presents financial results on a U.S. GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis that adjusts for the impact of the Dell appraisal rights matter, the consolidated T. Rowe Price investment products, the supplemental savings plan, other non-operating income, and the non-recurring charge recognized in 2017 related to the enactment of U.S. tax reform. We believe the non-GAAP financial measures below provide relevant and meaningful information to investors about our core operating results.



(in millions, except per-share data)20162017Dollar changePercentage changeU.S. GAAP BasisInvestment advisory fees$3,728.7$4,287.7$559.015.0%Net revenues$4,222.9$4,793.0$570.113.5%Operating expenses$2,489.5$2,684.2$194.77.8%Net operating income$1,733.4$2,108.8$375.421.7%Non-operating income$227.1$396.3$169.274.5%Net income attributable to T. Rowe Price Group$1,215.0$1,497.8$282.823.3%Diluted earnings per common share$4.75$5.97$1.2225.7%Weighted average common shares outstanding assuming dilution250.3245.1(5.2)(2.1)%Adjusted(1)Operating expenses$2,416.8$2,715.8$299.012.4%Net income attributable to T. Rowe Price Group$1,148.9$1,361.1$212.218.5%Diluted earnings per common share$4.49$5.43$.9420.9%



Page2






Assets under management (in billions)Average assets under management$778.2$909.0$130.816.8%Ending assets under management$810.8$991.1$180.322.2%



(1)See the reconciliation to the comparable U.S. GAAP measures at the end of the Results of Operations sections of Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

.

In 2016, we paid our clients $166.2 million to compensate them for the denial of their appraisal rights in connection with the 2013 leveraged buyout of Dell. We made claims with our insurance carriers and, on December 30, 2016,entered into an agreement with our primary insurance carrier to recover $100 million from the claim. The insurance proceeds were recognized as an offset to the related $166.2 million charge in 2016. In 2017, we received $50 million in additional recoveries from our insurance carriers and recognized a related reduction in operating expenses. In 2017, we recognized a non-recurring charge of$71.1 millionto reflect the estimated effect of the U.S. tax law changes enacted on December 22, 2017, in a comprehensive tax reform bill originally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Reform"). The recognized charge was based on current interpretation of the tax law changes, and includes$18.9 millionfor the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and a$52.2 milliontax liability for the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign sourced net earnings.



Assets Under Management.



Assets under management ended2017at$991.1 billion, anincreaseof$180.3 billionfrom the end of2016. During 2017, investors entrusted net inflows of$14.0 billionto our management and market appreciation and income, net of distributions not reinvested, added$166.3 billion. In2017, our net cash flows include$7.1 billionin ourtarget date retirement products, which provide shareholders with a single, diversified portfolio that invests in underlyingT. Rowe Price U.S. mutual fundsor collective investment trusts. The assets under management in theseproductstotaled$232.1 billionatDecember 31, 2017, or23.4%of our managed assets atDecember 31, 2017, compared with23.3%at the end of2016.



Capital Resources.



AtDecember 31, 2017, we remain debt-free with ample liquidity, including cash and discretionary investments in T. Rowe Price products of$2.7 billion. We also have seed capital investments inT. Rowe Price investment productsof$1.2 billionthat are redeemable, although we generally expect to be invested for several years until unrelated third-party investors substantially reduce our relative ownership percentage. We paid$2.28per share in regular dividends in2017, an increase of5.6%over the$2.16per share in regular dividends paid in2016. Additionally, we expended$458.1 millionto repurchase6.6 millionshares, or2.7%, of our outstanding common stock in2017. We invested$186.1 millionduring the year in capitalized technology and facilities.  These cash expenditures were made from existing cash balances.



Additional information concerning our assets under management, results of operations, and financial condition, during the past three years is contained in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, as well as our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



STRATEGIC INITIATIVES.



Our core capabilities have enabled us to deliver excellent operating results since our IPO in 1986. We maintain a client-centric culture that is focused on delivering excellent long-term investment performance and world-class service to our clients. We have distributed our broad array of active investment strategies through a diverse set of distribution channels to meet the needs of our clients. Our ongoing financial strength has allowed us to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities, invest in key capabilities, including investment professionals, technologies, and new product offerings; and, most importantly, provide our clients with strong investment management expertise and service.



The market in which we operate has been evolving quickly and a number of headwinds have arisen over the last few years, including a shifting demand from equities to income-oriented solutions as the population ages, demand for new vehicles to meet client needs, an accelerating regulatory landscape, and passive and alternative investments taking market share from active strategies.



Despite the headwinds, we believe there are significant opportunities that align to our core capabilities. As such, we are responding with several multi-year initiatives that are designed to strengthen our long-term competitive position and can be categorized into three areas: broadening our product offerings and vehicles; strengthening and deepening distribution across all channels; and strengthening our technology platform and digital capabilities. We have seen early, encouraging signs of success in the execution of these strategic imperatives.



Page3






INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES.



Distribution Channels.



We distribute our products in countries located within three broad geographical regions: North America, Europe Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia Pacific (APAC). We accumulate our assets under management from a diversified client base across five primary distribution channels: U.S. financial intermediaries; EMEA and APAC financial intermediaries; individual U.S. investors on a direct basis; U.S. retirement plan sponsors for which we provide recordkeeping services; and institutional investors globally. Investors domiciled outside the U.S. represent nearly6%of total assets under management at the end of2017. We service clients in47countries around the world. The following table outlines the types of products within each distribution channel through which our assets under management as ofDecember 31, 2017, are sourced.



U.S. financial intermediariesEMEA & APAC financial intermediariesIndividual U.S. investors on a direct basisU.S. retirement plan sponsorsGlobal institutionsU.S. Mutual FundsSICAVs(1)/ FCPs(2)U.S. Mutual FundsU.S. Mutual FundsU.S. Mutual FundsCollective Investment TrustsAustralian Unit Trusts (AUTS)Separate AccountsCollective Investment TrustsCollective Investment TrustsSubadvised AccountsOEICs(3)College Savings PlansSeparate AccountsSICAVs(1)/ FCPs(2)Managed Accounts / Model DeliveryCayman FundsModel DeliverySeparate / Subadvised AccountsCollege Savings PlansSubadvised AccountsCanadian Pension Pooled Funds

(1)Société d'Investissement à Capital Variable (Luxembourg),(2)Fonds Commun de Placement (Luxembourg),(3)Open ended investment company (U.K.)



Investment Capabilities.



We manage a broad range of investment strategies in equity, fixed income, and asset allocation across sectors, styles and regions. Our strategies are designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of investors and are delivered across a range of vehicles. For the Price Funds, investors select the fund based on the distinct objective that is described in each fund’s prospectus and can exchange balances among the funds as permitted when economic and market conditions or their investment needs change. The investment objectives and investment management approaches employed in ourother investment productsare similar to those in the Price Funds. We also offer specialized advisory services, including management of stable value investment contracts, modeled asset allocation solutions, and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities our clients receive from third-party venture capital investment pools.





Page4






The following table sets forth our broad investment capabilities as ofDecember 31, 2017.

EquityFixed incomeAsset allocationU.S.International / GlobalU.S.International / GlobalU.S. / International / GlobalLarge-Cap: Growth, Core, ValueGlobal: All-Cap, Growth, ValueAggregate Bond IndexGlobal AggregateTarget Date/Custom Target DateMid-Cap: Growth, Core, ValueInternational DevelopedCore BondGlobal Multi-SectorTarget AllocationSmall-Cap: Growth, Core, ValueInternational      Small-CapCredit OpportunitiesGlobal Dynamic BondGlobal AllocationQuantitative Equity: Multi-Cap, Style IndexEmerging Markets: Global, RegionalCorporateGlobal High IncomeManaged VolatilityTax EfficientEuropeBank LoanEmerging MarketsMulti-Asset SolutionsSectorsJapanHigh YieldInternational DevelopedReal AssetsAustraliaStable ValueGlobal CorporateRetirement IncomeAsia (ex Japan)SecuritizedGlobal High YieldTreasuryGlobal GovernmentShort DurationMunicipal



We employ fundamental and quantitative security analysis in the performance of the investment advisory function through substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financial and other information, and field checks with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business sector.



Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the U.S. and England with additional staff based in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore and Switzerland. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our securities selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analysis using computerized data modeling.



From time to time, we introduce new strategies, investment vehicles and otherproductsto complement and expand our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will introduce a new investment strategy if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and that its objective will be useful to investors over a long period.



We typically provide seed capital for new investmentproductsto enable the portfolio manager to begin building an investment performance history in advance of the portfolio receiving sustainable client assets. The length of time we hold our seed capital investment will vary for each new investmentproductas it is highly dependent on how long it takes to generate cash flows into theproductfrom unrelated investors. We attempt to ensure that the new investmentproducthas a sustainable level of assets from unrelated shareholders before we consider redemption of our seed capital investment in order to not negatively impact the new investmentproduct's net asset value or its investment performance record. AtDecember 31, 2017, we had seed capital investments of$1.2 billionin our products.





Page5






Conversely, we may also close or limit new investments across allT. Rowe Price investment productsin order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing shareholders and investors. At present, the following strategies are generally closed to new investors:

StrategyYear closedU.S. Mid-Cap Growth2010U.S. Mid-Cap Value2010High Yield Bond2012U.S. Small-Cap Growth2013U.S. Small-Cap Core2013Capital Appreciation2014Global Technology2017



Assets under Management.



The following table shows our assets under management (in billions), by distribution channel, vehicle, account type, and asset class:20162017Assets under management by distribution channelGlobal intermediaries(1)$395.5$496.9Individual U.S. investors147.1169.8U.S. retirement plan sponsors100.0111.2Global institutions(1)(2)168.2213.2Total assets under management$810.8$991.1(1)Includes U.S., EMEA, and APAC financial intermediaries and institutions,and(2)Includes T. Rowe Price investments in proprietary products, assets of the T. Rowe Price employee benefit plans, Private Asset Management accounts, and other.Assets under management by vehicleT. Rowe Price U.S. mutual funds$514.2$606.3Other investment productsT. Rowe Price collective investment trusts57.788.9T. Rowe Price stable value and variable annuity products18.319.2T. Rowe Price SICAVs and other funds regulated outside the U.S.13.721.5Subadvised and separately managed accounts206.9255.2Total other investment products296.6384.8Total assets under management$810.8$991.1Assets under management by account typeDefined contribution - investment only$255.4$307.1Defined contribution - recordkept assets97.2103.6Other retirement and deferred annuity assets208.1260.3Total retirement and tax deferred annuity assets560.7671.0Other250.1320.1Total assets under management$810.8$991.1Assets under management by asset classEquity$450.6$564.1Fixed income121.2134.4Asset allocation239.0292.6Total assets under management$810.8$991.1



Page6








Non-U.S. dollar denominated securities held in client accounts are$135.7 billion, or13.7%, of our total assets under management atDecember 31, 2017and$95.4 billion, or11.8%atDecember 31, 2016.



Investment Advisory Fees.



We provide investment advisory services through our subsidiaries to the Price Funds; clients on a separately managed or subadvised account basis; andother T. Rowe Price products, including collective investment trusts, target date retirement trusts, funds offered to investors outside the U.S., and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S.



Ten of our 178 Price Funds -Growth Stock,Blue-Chip Growth,Mid-Cap Growth,Capital Appreciation,Value,New Horizons,New Income,Equity Income,International Stock, andEmerging Markets Stock-accounted for approximately36%of our investment advisory revenues in2017, and approximately29%of our assets under management atDecember 31, 2017. Our largest client account relationship, apart from the Price Funds, is with a third-party financial intermediary that accounted for about6%of our investment advisory revenues in2017.



Price Funds.



AtDecember 31, 2017, assets under our management in the Price Funds aggregated$606.3 billion, an increase of17.9%or$92.1 billionfrom the beginning of the year. Investment advisory services are provided to each U.S. mutual fund under individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T. Rowe Price name. The Boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940), must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders must approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Independent directors and trustees of the Price Funds regularly review our fee structures.



The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the Price Funds is computed on a daily basis by multiplying a fund’s net assets by its effective fee rate. For the majority of the Price Funds, the fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group fee rate plus an individual fund rate. The tiered group rate is based on the combined net assets of nearly all of the Price Funds. If the combined net assets of these Price Funds exceed$650 billion, the weighted-average fee across pricing tiers is28.6 basis pointsfor the first$650 billionof net assets plus26.5 basis pointsfor net assets in excess of$650 billion. To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds included in the group rate calculation increase, the group charge component of a fund's advisory fee rate and the resulting advisory fee rate paid by each fund will decrease.



The individual fund rates are generally flat rates that are set based on the fund’s specific investment objective. Several funds including; the Blue Chip Growth, Equity Income, Growth Stock, and Mid-Cap Growth funds, have an effective tiered individual fund rate in which their base individual flat rate is reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $15 billion. The New Income and Value funds have their base individual flat rate reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $20 billion. The Capital Appreciation Fund has its base individual flat rate reduced by 10% on net assets in excess of $27.5 billion. The effective fee rates for each of the stock and bond funds on which we earned annual advisory fees of approximately$6.0 millionor greater in2017, varied from a low of31basis points for the Limited Duration Inflation Focused Bond fund to a high of104basis points for the Emerging Markets Stock and International Discovery funds.



The fee rate of several of the Price Funds, including the Index and Summit funds as well as specific funds offered solely to institutional investors, does not include a group fee component but rather an individual fund fee or an all-inclusive fee. An all-inclusive fee covers both the investment management fee and ordinary operating expenses incurred by the fund and, as a result, our management fee varies with the level of operating expenses a fund incurs. Each of the funds in the Spectrum Funds series and in the target date retirement funds series that we offer invests in a diversified portfolio of other Price Funds and has no separate investment advisory fee; rather, they indirectly bear the expenses of the funds in which they invest.



Each Price fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer and sub-transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses.





Page7






We usually provide that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other fund expenses, such as those described above, in excess of these self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the waived fees and absorbed costs, but such recovery is not assured.



During 2015 and 2016, we voluntarily waived $47.6 million and $10.5 million, respectively, in money market related fees, including advisory fees and fund expenses in order to maintain a positive yield for investors. In 2017, money market waivers were negligible.



Other investment products.



Our other investmentproductshad assets under management of$384.8 billionatDecember 31, 2017, an increase of$88.2 billionfrom the beginning of the year. We charge fees for investment management to these clients based on, among other things, the specific investment services to be provided. Our standard form of investment advisory agreement with other T. Rowe Price products, that pay management fee on a daily basis, normally provides for termination with thirty day notice. Our standard separately managed account agreements provide for termination at any time and the refunding of any unearned fees paid in advance. Our standard subadvised client account agreement typically provides for termination with sixty days notice.



Our subsidiaries, T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl and T. Rowe Price International, provide management company and investment management services, respectively, to our Luxembourg-based SICAVs and FCPs and AUTs. T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl and T. Rowe Price International, provide authorized corporate depositor and investment management services, respectively, to our UK-based OEICs. Our subsidiaries, T. Rowe Price Associates and T.Rowe Price Hong Kong may also provide subadvised investment management services to these global investmentproducts. We distribute theseproductsoutside the U.S. through distribution agents and other financial intermediaries. The fees we earn for distributing and marketing these products are part of our overall investment management fees for managing theproductassets. We currently recognize any related distribution fees paid to these financial intermediaries in other operating expenses.



In addition to providing investment management services to the Price Funds, our subsidiaries, T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price International, offer separately managed institutional investment management and subadvised investment management services to global intermediaries. Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Trust Company, offers and provides investment management services to our T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts, which are used in the investment portfolios of certain qualified U.S. retirement plans.



Our fees for managing theseother investment productsare computed using the value of assets under our management at a contracted annual fee rate. The value of assets under management billed is generally based on daily valuations, end of billing period valuations, or month-end average valuations. In2017, approximately76%of our advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio valuations,15%were based on end of billing period valuations, and9%were based on month-end averages.



ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES.



We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, distribution, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing inT. Rowe Price U.S. mutual funds; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; and trust services.



Our subsidiaries provide administrative services to the Price Funds and their shareholders. T. Rowe Price Services provides mutual fund transfer agency and shareholder services, including the staff, facilities, technology, and other equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. The Price Funds contract directly with BNY Mellon to provide mutual fund accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of financial statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities, and computation of daily net asset values per share to the Price Funds.



T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting and plan administration for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in the Price Funds, the T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts, and funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services also provides transfer agent services to the Price Funds. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some of the administrative services while the Price Funds and outside fund families compensate us for maintaining and administering the individual participant accounts for those plans that invest in the respective funds. As ofDecember 31, 2017, we provided recordkeeping services for$177 billionin assets under administration, of which$111 billionare assets we manage.



Page8






T. Rowe Price Trust Company provides administrative trustee services. Through this entity, which is a Maryland-chartered limited service trust company, we serve as trustee for employer sponsored retirement plans and other retirement products.

T. Rowe Price Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans.



We also provide non-discretionary advisory planning services to fund shareholders and potential investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services. These services are limited in scope and include retirement planning services, such as saving for retirement, transitioning into retirement, and income in retirement. An investment portfolio evaluation service is an integral part of these services. An ongoing checkup service is also available to assist an investor in staying on track to achieve their financial goals.



DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICING.



The Investor Class of all Price Funds can be purchased in the U.S. on a no-load basis, without a sales commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy method of directly investing in a variety of stock and fixed incomeproducts. The I Class of certain Price Funds is designed to meet the needs of institutionally oriented clients who seek investment products with lower shareholder servicing costs and lower expense ratios. This share class limits ordinary operating expenses (other than interest; expenses related to borrowings, taxes, and brokerage; and any non-extraordinary expenses) at 5 basis points for a period of time and there are no external payments for 12b-1 or administrative fee payments.



Certain of the Price Funds also offer Advisor Class and R Class shares that are distributed to investors and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively. These share classes pay 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services. Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment Services (TRPIS), is the principal distributor of the Price Funds and hires third-party financial intermediaries to distribute these share classes. TRPIS enters into agreements with each intermediary under which each fund is responsible to pay the distribution and service fees directly to the applicable intermediaries. In addition, those Price Funds offered to investors through variable annuity life insurance plans have a share class that pays a 12b-1 fee of 25 basis points.



In accounting for 12b-1 fees, the applicable mutual fund share classes incur the related expense and we recognize the corresponding distribution and servicing fee revenue in our consolidated statements of income. We also recognize, as distribution and servicing costs in the consolidated statements of income, the corresponding cost paid to the third-party financial intermediaries who distribute these funds' share classes. The fee revenue that we recognize from the funds and the expense that we recognize for the fees paid to third-party intermediaries are equal in amount and, therefore, do not impact our net operating income.



We believe that our lower fund cost structure, distribution methods, and fund shareholder and administrative services help promote the stability of our fund assets under management through market cycles.



Except as noted above for 12b-1 fees, we bear all advertising and promotion expenses associated with the distribution of the Price Funds. These costs are recognized currently and include advertising and direct mail communications to potential fund shareholders, as well as substantial staff and communications capabilities to respond to investor inquiries. Marketing and promotional efforts are focused in print media, television, and Internet. In addition, we direct considerable marketing efforts to defined contribution plans that invest in mutual funds. Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor interest, market conditions, new and existing investment offerings, and the development and expansion of new marketing initiatives, including the enhancement of our digital capabilities.



REGULATION.



All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients and T. Rowe Price product shareholders. They generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the event that we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on us, in the event that we fail to comply, include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our investment adviser and other registrations, censures, and fines.



T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, T. Rowe Price (Canada), Inc., T. Rowe Price Hong Kong Limited, T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd., and T. Rowe Price Advisory Services, Inc. are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 imposes substantive regulation around, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, transactions with clients, effective compliance programs, conflicts of interest, advertising, recordkeeping, reporting, and disclosure requirements.



Page9






T. Rowe Price International is also regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom and, in certain cases, by other foreign regulators in countries in which we have a license to conduct business. The Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) and Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) also regulate T. Rowe Price Hong Kong and T. Rowe Price Singapore, respectively. T. Rowe Price (Canada) is also registered with several of the provincial securities commissions in Canada. T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl, the management company of our Luxembourg-based FCP (Fonds Commun de Placement) and SICAV funds is regulated by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). Our branch offices operated outside the U.S. are also registered with and regulated by the local financial authorities.



Our subsidiaries providing transfer agent services are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and our trust company is regulated by the State of Maryland, Commissioner of Financial Regulation.



T. Rowe Price Investment Services is a registered broker-dealer and member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. This subsidiary provides introducing brokerage services primarily to complement the other services provided to shareholders of the Price Funds. Pershing, a third-party clearing broker and an affiliate of BNY Mellon, maintains our brokerage’s customer accounts and clears all transactions.



Serving the needs of retirement savers is an important focus of our business.  As a result, such activities are subject to regulators such as the U.S. Department of Labor, and applicable laws and regulations including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.



Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements, including those of various federal, state, and international regulatory agencies. Each of our subsidiary's net capital, as defined, meets or exceeds all minimum requirements.



For further discussion of the potential impact of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements, please see the Legal and Regulatory risk factors included in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



COMPETITION.



As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of proprietary and other sponsors’ mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks, and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, and other financial institutions and funds in all aspects of our business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investmentproductsoffered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services.



In recent years, we have faced significant competition from passive oriented investment strategies. As a result, such products have taken market share from active managers. While we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain, we believe there will always be demand for good active management.



In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to the acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship.



EMPLOYEES.



AtDecember 31, 2017, we employed6,881associates, up8.7%from the6,329associates employed at the end of2016. We may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and mutual fund administrative services.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION.

Our Internet address is troweprice.com. We intend to use our website as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. These disclosures will be included in the Investor Relations section of our website, ir.troweprice.com. Investors should monitor this section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public webcasts, all of which will be referenced on the website.



Page10






On the Investor Relations portion of our website, we also make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain our websites as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us and as a channel of distribution for material company information, including but not limited to:

•our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with, or furnish them to the SEC;



•our financial statement information from our periodic SEC filings in the form of XBRL data files that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted investor analysis;



•corporate governance information including our governance guidelines, committee charters, senior officer code of ethics and conduct, and other governance-related policies;



•other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting, including our monthly assets under management disclosure; and



•opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time.



Unless otherwise expressly stated, information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.





