Item 1.Business.



GENERAL.



T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to investors worldwide. We provide an array of company sponsored U.S. mutual funds, other sponsored pooled investment vehicles, subadvisory services, separate account management, recordkeeping, and related services to individuals, advisors, institutions, financial intermediaries, and retirement plan sponsors. We are focused on delivering global investment management excellence to help clients around the world achieve their long-term investment goals.



The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group corporate holding company structure was established in 2000.



We derive the vast majority of our consolidated net revenue and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price International Ltd. Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations. AtDecember 31, 2016, we had$810.8 billionin assets under management, including$514.2 billionin the T. Rowe Price mutual funds distributed in the U.S. (Price Funds) and$296.6 billionin other investment portfolios.



2016DEVELOPMENTS.



U.S. stocks rose strongly in2016, with major indexes finishing the year near record highs. Small-cap stocks substantially outperformed large-caps, and it was the eighth consecutive year for a positive S&P 500 Index total return. The S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index, which is heavily weighted in technology companies, returned12.0%and7.5%, respectively, in2016. Developed non-U.S. equity markets significantly underperformed U.S. shares for the year, as returns to U.S. investors were hurt by a stronger dollar versus some major currencies. Global bond returns were mostly positive in2016.



The table below presents financial results on a U.S. GAAP basis, as well as a non-GAAP basis, to adjust for the non-recurring charge related to the Dell appraisal rights matter, the impact of our consolidated sponsored investment portfolios, and other non-operating income. We believe the non-GAAP financial measures below provide relevant and meaningful information to investors about our core operating results.

Year ended December 31,(in millions, except per-share data)20152016Dollar changePercentage changeU.S. GAAP BasisInvestment advisory fees$3,687.3$3,728.7$41.41.1%Net revenues$4,200.6$4,222.9$22.3.5%Operating expenses$2,301.7$2,489.5$187.88.2%Net operating income$1,898.9$1,733.4$(165.5)(8.7)%Non-operating income(1)$103.5$227.1$123.6nmNet income attributable to T. Rowe Price Group$1,223.0$1,215.0$(8.0)(.7)%Diluted earnings per common share$4.63$4.75$.122.6%Weighted average common shares outstanding assuming dilution260.9250.3(10.6)(4.1)%Adjusted(2)Operating expenses$2,301.7$2,416.8$115.15.0%Net income attributable to T. Rowe Price Group$1,160.3$1,148.9$(11.4)(1.0)%Diluted earnings per common share$4.39$4.49$.102.3%



Page2






Assets under management (in billions)Average assets under management$767.9$778.2$10.31.3%Ending assets under management$763.1$810.8$47.76.3%

(1)Non-operating income varies from year to year due to a number of factors; accordingly the percentage change in non-operating income is not believed to be meaningful.

(2)See the reconciliation to the comparable U.S. GAAP measures at the end of the Results of Operations sections of Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

.



In 2016, we paid our clients $166.2 million to compensate them for the denial of their appraisal rights in connection with the 2013 leveraged buyout of Dell. We made claims with our insurance carriers and, on December 30, 2016,entered into an agreement with our primary insurance carrier to recover $100 million from the claim. The insurance proceeds were recognized as an offset to the related $166.2 million charge recognized in the second quarter of 2016. Remaining insurance claims filed with respect to this matter that could result in an additional recovery of up to $50 million are still pending.



Our2016results were significantly impacted by the adoption of new accounting guidance related to consolidation and stock-based compensation. The new consolidation guidance implemented in 2016 resulted in the consolidation of a larger number of sponsored investment portfolios in which we have provided initial seed capital. The impact of implementing this new guidance is discussed in more detail in theSummary of Significant Accounting Policiessection of our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this filing.



The impact (in millions) the consolidated sponsored investment portfolios have on the individual lines of our 2016 consolidated statement of income is as follows:

Operating expenses reflected in net operating income$(13.0)Net investment income reflected in non-operating income121.1Impact on income before taxes$108.1Net income attributable to the firm's interest in the consolidated sponsored investment portfolios$69.1Net income attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests (unrelated third-party investors)39.0$108.1



Assets Under Management.



Assets under management ended2016at$810.8 billion, anincreaseof$47.7 billionfrom the end of2015. Market appreciation and income, net of distributions not reinvested, of$50.5 billionwas offset in part by net cash outflows of$2.8 billionduring2016. Our net cash outflows for 2016 were largely attributable to clients reallocating to passive investments and the impact of our closed strategies. In2016, our net cash flows include$8.1 billionthat originated in our target date retirement portfolios, which provide shareholders with single, diversified portfolios that invest in underlying T. Rowe Price funds and T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts. The assets under management in these portfolios totaled$189.2 billionatDecember 31, 2016, including$150.9 billionin target date retirement funds and$38.3 billionin target date retirement trusts. These portfolios' assets account for23.3%of our managed assets atDecember 31, 2016, compared with21.7%at the end of2015.



Capital Resources.



AtDecember 31, 2016, we remain debt-free with ample liquidity, including cash and discretionary sponsored portfolio investment holdings of$1.9 billion. We also have seed capital investments in sponsored investment portfolios of about$1.3 billionthat are redeemable, although we generally expect to be invested for several years until unrelated third-party investors substantially reduce our relative ownership percentage. We paid$2.16per share in regular dividends in2016, an increase of3.8%over the$2.08per share in regular dividends paid in2015. Additionally, we expended$676.9 millionto repurchase10.0 millionshares, or4.0%, of our outstanding common stock in2016. We invested$148 millionduring the year in capitalized technology and facilities from existing cash balances.



Additional information concerning our revenues, results of operations and total assets, and our assets under management during the past three years is contained in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, as well as our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.





Page3






STRATEGIC INITIATIVES.



Our core capabilities have enabled us to deliver excellent operating results since our IPO in 1986. We maintain a client-centric culture that is focused on delivering excellent long-term investment performance and world-class service to our clients. We have distributed our broad array of active investment strategies through a diverse set of distribution channels to meet the needs of our clients. Our ongoing financial strength has allowed us to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities, invest in key capabilities, including investment professionals, technologies, and new product offerings; and, most importantly, provide our clients with strong investment management expertise and service.



The market in which we operate has been evolving quickly and a number of headwinds have arisen over the last few years, including a shifting demand from equities to income-oriented solutions as the population ages, demand for new vehicles to meet client needs, an accelerating regulatory landscape, and passive and alternative investments taking market share from active strategies.



Despite the headwinds, we believe there are significant opportunities that speak to our core capabilities. As such, we are responding with several multi-year initiatives that are designed to strengthen our long-term competitive position and can be categorized into three areas: broadening our product offerings and vehicles; strengthening and deepening distribution across all channels; and strengthening our technology platform and digital capabilities.



INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES.



Distribution Channels.



We distribute our products in countries located within three broad geographical regions: North America, Europe Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia Pacific (APAC). We accumulate our assets under management from a diversified client base across five primary distribution channels: U.S. financial intermediaries; EMEA and APAC financial intermediaries; individual U.S. investors on a direct basis; U.S. retirement plan sponsors for which we provide recordkeeping services; and institutional investors globally. Investors domiciled outside the U.S. represent nearly5%of total assets under management at the end of2016. We service clients in45countries around the world. The following table outlines the types of vehicles within each distribution channel through which our assets under management are sourced as of December 31, 2016:

U.S. financial intermediariesEMEA & APAC financial intermediariesIndividual U.S. investorsU.S. retirement plan sponsorsGlobal institutionsU.S. Mutual FundsSICAVs(1)/ FCPs(2)U.S. Mutual FundsU.S. Mutual FundsU.S. Mutual FundsCollective Investment TrustsAustralian Unit TrustsSeparate AccountsCollective Investment TrustsSICAVs(1)/ FCPs(2)Subadvised AccountsOEICs(3)College Savings PlansSeparate AccountsManaged Accounts / Model DeliveryCayman FundsCanadian Pension Pool FundsCollege Savings PlansSubadvised Accounts

(1)Société d'Investissement à Capital Variable (Luxembourg),(2)Fonds Commun de Placement (Luxembourg),(3)Open ended investment company (U.K.)



The following table shows our assets under management as ofDecember 31, 2016, by distribution channel, by vehicle, and account type:Assets under management by distribution channelGlobal intermediaries(1)$395.5Individual U.S. investors147.1U.S. retirement plan sponsors100.0Global institutions168.2Total assets under management$810.8(1)Includes U.S., EMEA, and APAC financial intermediaries



Page4






Assets under management by vehicleSponsored U.S. mutual funds$514.2Other investment portfoliosSponsored - collective investment trusts57.7Sponsored - stable value and variable annuity portfolios18.3Sponsored - SICAVs and other funds regulated outside the U.S.13.7Subadvised and separately managed accounts206.9Total other investment portfolios296.6Total assets under management$810.8Assets under management by account typeDefined contribution - investment only$255.4Defined contribution - recordkept assets97.2Other retirement and deferred annuity assets208.1Total retirement and tax deferred annuity assets560.7Other250.1Total assets under management$810.8



Investment Capabilities.



We manage a broad range of investment strategies in equity, fixed income, and asset allocation across sectors, styles and regions. Our strategies are designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of individual and institutional investors. For the Price Funds, investors select the fund based on the distinct objective that is described in each fund’s prospectus and can exchange balances among the funds as permitted when economic and market conditions or their investment needs change. The investment objectives and investment management approaches employed in our other investment portfolios are similar to those in the Price Funds. We also offer specialized advisory services, including management of stable value investment contracts and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities our clients receive from third-party venture capital investment pools.



The following table sets forth our broad investment capabilities as of December 31, 2016.

EquityFixed incomeAsset allocationU.S.International / GlobalU.S.International / GlobalU.S. / International / GlobalLarge-Cap: Growth, Core, ValueGlobal: All-Cap, Growth, ValueAggregate Bond IndexGlobal AggregateTarget DateMid-Cap: Growth, Core, ValueInternational DevelopedCore BondGlobal Multi-SectorTarget AllocationSmall-Cap: Growth, Core, ValueInternational      Small-CapCredit OpportunitiesGlobal UnconstrainedGlobal AllocationEmerging Markets: Global, RegionalCorporateGlobal High IncomeManaged VolatilityEuropeBank LoanEmerging MarketsMulti-Asset SolutionsJapanHigh YieldInternational DevelopedReal AssetsStable ValueGlobal CorporateSecuritizedGlobal High YieldTreasuryGlobal GovernmentShort DurationMunicipal





Page5






Our assets under management, by asset class, were as follows as of December 31, 2016.

Equity$450.6Fixed income121.2Asset allocation239.0Total assets under management$810.8



Non-U.S. dollar denominated securities held in client accounts are$95.4 billion, or11.8%, of our total assets under management atDecember 31, 2016.



We employ fundamental and quantitative security analysis in the performance of the investment advisory function through substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financial and other information, and field checks with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business sector.



Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the U.S. and England with additional staff based in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our securities selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analysis using computerized data modeling.



From time to time, we introduce new strategies, investment vehicles and other products to complement and expand our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will introduce a new investment strategy if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and that its objective will be useful to investors over a long period. In 2016, we launched four new equity funds, including three quantitatively managed funds, one new fixed income fund, and one new money market fund. We also launched a suite of OEICs for distribution through UK intermediaries and continued to add the I-Class shares to certain Price Funds. We beta-tested our new T. Rowe Price ActivePlus Portfolio offering, which is a discretionary advice service, in the fourth quarter of 2016 and will be formally launching to individual investors on a direct basis in early 2017.



We typically provide seed capital for new investment funds and trusts to enable the portfolio manager to begin building an investment performance history in advance of the portfolio receiving sustainable client assets. The length of time we hold our seed capital investment will vary for each new investment portfolio as it is highly dependent on how long it takes to generate cash flows into the portfolio from unrelated investors. We attempt to ensure that the new investment portfolio has a sustainable level of assets from unrelated shareholders before we consider redemption of our seed capital investment in order to not negatively impact the new investment portfolio's net asset value or its investment performance record. AtDecember 31, 2016, we had seed capital investments of$1.3 billionin sponsored investment portfolios.



Conversely, we may also limit new investments into a mutual fund or investment strategy in order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing fund shareholders and investors. At present, the following are closed to new investors.

Strategy / FundDate closedU.S. Mid-Cap StrategyMay 31, 2010Small-Cap Stock FundsDecember 31, 2013High Yield FundsApril 30, 2012New Horizons FundsDecember 31, 2013Capital Appreciation FundsJune 30, 2014



Investment Advisory Fees.



We provide investment advisory services through our subsidiaries to the Price Funds; clients on a separately managed or subadvised account basis; and other sponsored investment portfolios, including collective investment trusts, target date retirement trusts, funds offered to investors outside the U.S., and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S.





Page6






Ten Price Funds -Growth Stock,Blue-Chip Growth,Mid-Cap Growth,Capital Appreciation,Value,New Income,Equity Income,New Horizons,International Stock, andEmerging Markets Stock-accounted for approximately37%of our investment advisory revenues in2016, and approximately30%of our assets under management atDecember 31, 2016. Our largest client account relationship, apart from the Price Funds, is with a third-party financial intermediary that accounted for about6%of our investment advisory revenues in2016.



Price Funds.



AtDecember 31, 2016, assets under our management in the Price Funds aggregated$514.2 billion, an increase of5.6%or$27.1 billionfrom the beginning of the year. Investment advisory services are provided to each U.S. mutual fund under individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T. Rowe Price name. The Boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940), must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders must approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Independent directors and trustees of the Price Funds regularly review our fee structures.



The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the Price Funds is computed on a daily basis by multiplying a fund’s net assets by its effective fee rate. For the majority of the Price Funds, the fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group fee rate plus an individual fund rate. The tiered group rate is based on the combined net assets of nearly all of the Price Funds. If the combined net assets of these Price Funds exceed$500 billion, the weighted-average fee across pricing tiers is29.1 basis pointsfor the first$500 billionof net assets plus27.0 basis pointsfor net assets in excess of$500 billion. To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds included in the group rate calculation increase, the group charge component of a fund's advisory fee rate and the resulting advisory fee rate paid by each fund will decrease.



The individual fund rates are generally flat rates that are set based on the fund’s specific investment objective. Several funds, including the Blue Chip Growth, Equity Income, Growth Stock and Mid-Cap Growth funds, have an effective tiered individual fund rate in which their base individual flat rate is reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $15 billion. The New Income and Value funds have their base individual flat rate reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $20 billion. The effective fee rates for the stock and bond funds on which we earned annual advisory fees of approximately$6.0 millionor greater in2016, varied from a low of34basis points for the Limited Duration Inflation Focused Bond fund to a high of104basis points for the Emerging Markets Stock, International Discovery, and Latin America funds.



The fee rate of several of the Price Funds, including the Index and Summit funds as well as specific funds offered solely to institutional investors, does not include a group fee component but rather an individual fund fee or an all-inclusive fee. An all-inclusive fee covers both the investment management fee and ordinary operating expenses incurred by the fund and, as a result, our management fee varies with the level of operating expenses a fund incurs. Each of the funds in the series of Spectrum Funds and in the series of target date retirement funds that we offer invests in a diversified portfolio of other Price Funds and has no separate investment advisory fee; rather, they indirectly bear the expenses of the funds in which they invest.



Each Price fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses.



We usually provide that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other mutual fund expenses in excess of these self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the waived fees and absorbed costs, but such recovery is not assured.



In2016, we continued to voluntarily waive advisory fees and other fund expenses, though to a lesser extent than in recent years, of certain of our money market funds and trusts in order to maintain a positive yield for investors. Total fees waived in2016were$10.5 million, or less than 1% of total investment advisory revenues earned during the year, compared to$47.6 millionin2015. We expect that these fee waivers, if any, will be insignificant in2017.





Page7






Other investment portfolios.



Our other client investment portfolios had assets under management of$296.6 billionatDecember 31, 2016, an increase of$20.6 billionfrom the beginning of the year. We charge fees for investment management to these clients based on, among other things, the specific investment services to be provided. Our standard form of investment advisory agreement for client accounts provides that the agreement may be terminated at any time and that any unearned fees paid in advance will be refunded.



Our subsidiaries, T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl and T. Rowe Price International, provide management company and investment management services, respectively, to our Luxembourg-based SICAVs and FCPs, and UK-based OEICs. These funds are distributed outside the U.S. through distribution agents and other financial intermediaries. The fees earned for these distribution and marketing services are part of the overall investment management fees earned for managing the fund assets. We recognize any related distribution fees paid to financial intermediaries in other operating expenses.



Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Trust Company, offers and provides investment management services to collective investment trusts for investments by qualified U.S. retirement plans. In addition to providing investment management services to the Price Funds, our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Associates, offers separately managed institutional investment management services and subadvised investment management to intermediaries.



Our fees for managing these other investment portfolios are computed using the value of assets under our management at a contracted annual fee rate. The value of assets under management billed is generally based on daily valuations, month-end average valuations, end of billing period valuations, or beginning of bill period valuations. In2016, approximately75%of advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio valuations,9%were based on month-end averages,15%were based on end of billing period valuations, and1%were based on beginning of billing period valuations.



ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES.



We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, distribution, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in our sponsored mutual funds; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; and trust services. Substantially all of our administrative and distribution and servicing fee revenues in2016were generally based on the recovery of our related costs to provide these services.



Our subsidiaries provide advisory-related administrative services to the Price Funds and their shareholders. T. Rowe Price Services provides mutual fund transfer agency and shareholder services, including maintenance of staff, facilities, technology, and other equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. Until August 2015, T. Rowe Price Associates provided mutual fund accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of financial statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities, and computation of daily net asset values per share to the Price Funds. The Price Funds contracted directly with BNY Mellon in August 2015 to provide these services.



T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting and plan administration for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in the Price Funds, our sponsored collective investment trusts, and funds outside the Price fund complex. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services also provides transfer agent services to the Price Funds. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some of the administrative services while the Price Funds and outside fund families compensate us for maintaining and administering the individual participant accounts for those plans that invest in the respective funds. As of December 31, 2016, we performed recordkeeping services for $156 billion in assets under administration, of which $100 billion are assets we manage.



T. Rowe Price Trust Company also provides administrative trustee services. Through this entity, which is a Maryland-chartered limited service trust company, we serve as trustee for employer sponsored retirement plans and other retirement products.

T. Rowe Price Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans.



We also provide non-discretionary advisory planning services to fund shareholders and potential investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services. These services are limited in scope and include retirement planning services, such as saving for retirement, transitioning into retirement, and income in retirement. An investment portfolio evaluation service is an integral part of these services. An ongoing checkup service is also available to assist an investor in staying on track to achieve their financial goals.



Page8








DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICING.



The Investor Class of all Price Funds can be purchased in the U.S. on a no-load basis, without a sales commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy method of directly investing in a variety of stock and fixed income portfolios. The I Class of certain Price Funds is designed to meet the needs of institutionally oriented clients who seek investment products with lower shareholder servicing costs and lower expense ratios. This share class limits ordinary operating expenses (other than interest; expenses related to borrowings, taxes, and brokerage; and any non extraordinary expenses) at 5 basis points for a period of time and there are no external payments for 12b-1 or administrative fee payments.



Certain of the Price Funds also offer Advisor Class and R Class shares that are distributed to mutual fund shareholders, and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively, through third-party financial intermediaries. These share classes pay 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services. Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment Services, is the principal distributor of the Price Funds and enters into a tri-party agreement with each intermediary and fund. Under the agreement, each fund is responsible to pay the distribution and service fees directly to the applicable intermediaries. In addition, those Price Funds offered to investors through variable annuity life insurance plans have a share class that pays a 12b-1 fee of 25 basis points.



In accounting for 12b-1 fees, the applicable mutual fund share classes incur the related expense and we recognize the corresponding distribution and servicing fee revenue in our consolidated statements of income. We also recognize, as distribution and servicing costs in the consolidated statements of income, the corresponding cost paid to the third-party financial intermediaries who distribute these funds' share classes. The fee revenue that we recognize from the funds and the expense that we recognize for the fees paid to third-party intermediaries are equal in amount and, therefore, do not impact our net operating income.



We believe that our lower fund cost structure, distribution methods, and fund shareholder and administrative services help promote the stability of our fund assets under management through market cycles.



Except as noted above for 12b-1 fees, we bear all advertising and promotion expenses associated with the distribution of the Price Funds. These costs are recognized currently and include advertising and direct mail communications to potential fund shareholders, as well as substantial staff and communications capabilities to respond to investor inquiries. Marketing and promotional efforts are focused in print media, television, and Internet. In addition, we direct considerable marketing efforts to defined contribution plans that invest in mutual funds. Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor interest, market conditions, new and existing investment offerings, and the development and expansion of new marketing initiatives, including the enhancement of our digital capabilities.



REGULATION.



All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients and the sponsored funds' shareholders. They generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the event that we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on us, in the event that we fail to comply, include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our investment adviser, and other registrations, censures, and fines.



T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, T. Rowe Price (Canada), Inc., T. Rowe Price Hong Kong Limited, T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd., and T. Rowe Price Advisory Services, Inc. are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 imposes substantive regulation around, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, transactions with clients, effective compliance programs, conflicts of interest, advertising, recordkeeping, reporting and disclosure requirements.



T. Rowe Price International is also regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom and, in certain cases, by other foreign regulators in countries in which we have a license to conduct business. The Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) and Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) also regulate T. Rowe Price Hong Kong and T. Rowe Price Singapore, respectively. T. Rowe Price (Canada) is also registered with several of the provincial securities commissions in Canada. T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl, the management company of our Luxembourg-based FCP (Fonds Commun de Placement) and SICAV funds is regulated by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). Our branch offices operated outside the U.S. are also registered with and regulated by the local financial authorities.





Page9






Our subsidiaries providing transfer agent services are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and our trust company is regulated by the State of Maryland, Commissioner of Financial Regulation.



T. Rowe Price Investment Services is a registered broker-dealer and member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. We provide introducing brokerage services through this subsidiary primarily to complement the other services provided to shareholders of the Price Funds. Pershing, a third-party clearing broker and an affiliate of BNY Mellon, maintains our brokerage’s customer accounts and clears all transactions.



Serving the needs of retirement savers is an important focus of our business.  As a result, such activities are subject to regulators such as the U.S. Department of Labor, and applicable laws and regulations including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.



Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements, including those of various federal, state, and international regulatory agencies. Each of our subsidiary's net capital, as defined, meets or exceeds all minimum requirements.



For further discussion of the potential impact of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements, please see the Legal and Regulatory risk factors included in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



COMPETITION.



As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of proprietary and other sponsors’ mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks, and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, and other financial institutions and funds in all aspects of our business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services.



In recent years, we have faced significant competition from passive oriented investment strategies, with competitors that offer such products taking market share from active managers like ourselves. While we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain, we believe there will always be demand for good active management.



In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to the acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship.



EMPLOYEES.



AtDecember 31, 2016, we employed6,329associates, up5.5%from the5,999associates employed at the end of2015. We may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and mutual fund administrative services.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION.

Our Internet address is troweprice.com. At our Investor Relations website, trow.client.shareholder.com, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain our websites as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us and as a channel of distribution for material company information, including but not limited to:

•our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with, or furnish them to the SEC;



•our financial statement information from our periodic SEC filings in the form of XBRL data files that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted investor analysis;



•corporate governance information including our charter, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, senior officer code of ethics and conduct, and other governance-related policies;



Page10








•other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting; and



•opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time.



Unless otherwise expressly stated, information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.





