Item 1.Business.



T. Rowe Price Group is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the sponsored T. Rowe Price mutual funds distributed in the United States (Price funds) and other investment portfolios, including separately managed accounts, subadvised funds, and other sponsored investment portfolios, including collective investment trusts, Luxembourg-based funds offered to investors outside the United States and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the United States.



The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group corporate holding company structure was established in 2000.



We derive the majority of our consolidated revenue and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. and T. Rowe Price International Ltd. Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations.



Our assets under management are accumulated from a diversified client base across four primary distribution channels: third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios in the U.S. and other countries; individual U.S. investors on a direct basis; U.S. defined contribution retirement plans; and institutional investors globally. As of December 31, 2012, approximately forty percent of our assets under management are sourced from our third-party financial intermediary distribution channel with the remaining three distribution channels equally making up the balance.



We manage a broad range of U.S. and international stock, blended asset, bond, and money market mutual funds and other investment portfolios that are designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of individual and institutional investors. Investment objectives for our managed investment portfolios, including the Price funds, accommodate a variety of strategies. Investors select from among the mutual funds based on the distinct objective that is described in each fund’s prospectus and can exchange balances among the funds as permitted when economic and market conditions and their investment needs change. Investment management of other client portfolios includes approaches similar to those employed in the Price funds.



Equity investment strategies may emphasize large-cap, mid-cap or small-cap investing; growth, value or core investing; and U.S., global, international or sector investing. We also offer systematic, tax-efficient, and blended equity and asset allocation investment strategies, including target-date retirement investment portfolios, as well as active, systematic and municipal tax-free management strategies for fixed income investments. Our specialized advisory services include management of stable value investment contracts and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities received from third-party venture capital investment pools.



We employ fundamental and quantitative security analysis in the performance of the investment advisory function through substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financial and other information, financial newspapers and magazines, corporate rating services, and field checks with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business sector. Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the U.S. and England with additional staff based in Argentina, Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our securities selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analysis using computerized data modeling.



From time to time, we introduce new funds and other investment portfolios to complement and expand our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will open a new mutual fund or investment portfolio if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and that its objective will be useful for investors over a long period. Conversely, we may also limit new investments into a mutual fund or investment mandate in order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing fund shareholders and investors. At present, the following funds are closed to all new investors.





Page2






FundDate ClosedInstitutional Mid-Cap Equity GrowthDecember 8, 2003Institutional Small-Cap StockFebruary 20, 2004Mid-Cap GrowthMay 31, 2010Mid-Cap ValueMay 31, 2010High YieldApril 30, 2012Institutional High YieldApril 30, 2012



We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, distribution, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in our sponsored mutual funds; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; and trust services. Substantially all of our administrative and distribution and servicing fee revenues in2012were determined based generally on the recovery of our related costs to provide these services. Therefore, changes in our administrative revenues, distribution and servicing fees, and related expenses generally do not significantly affect our net operating income or net income.



Information concerning our revenues, results of operations and total assets, and our assets under management during the past three years is contained in our consolidated financial statements and in note 2 thereto, which are both included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.



2012DEVELOPMENTS.



Major equity markets produced strong returns in2012despite a eurozone recession, the sovereign debt crisis, muted U.S. economic growth, uncertainty surrounding U.S. fiscal policy after 2012, and a slowdown in emerging economies. Equities were supported by solid U.S. corporate earnings, and actions taken by central banks around the world to stimulate economic growth. Bonds produced good returns over the year with high yield and emerging market issues outperforming other issues as income seeking investors continued favoring securities with attractive yields in the low interest rate environment. Higher market valuations and income, net of mutual fund distributions not reinvested, increased our assets under management by$70.1 billionin2012. Our strong relative investment performance and brand awareness contributed significantly to attracting net inflows of$17.2 billion, primarily from third-party financial intermediaries. As a result, our assets under management increased$87.3 billionover the course of2012and ended the year at$576.8 billion.



The firm’s long-term investment advisory results relative to our peers remain strong, with78%of the Price funds across their share classes surpassing their comparable Lipper averages on a total return basis for the three-year period endedDecember 31, 2012,84%outperforming for the five-year period,78%outperforming for the 10-year period, and74%outperforming for the one-year period. In addition, T. Rowe Price stock, bond and blended asset mutual funds that ended the quarter with an overall rating of four or five stars from Morningstar account for76%of our rated Price funds’ assets under management.



Details of our assets under management (in billions) atDecember 31, 2012are as follows:



Assets under management by investment portfolioSponsored mutual funds distributed in U.S.$346.9Other investment portfolios229.9$576.8Assets under management by asset classStock and blended asset portfolios$421.1Fixed income portfolios155.7$576.8Assets under management by account typeRetirement accounts and variable annuity portfolios$334.0Other242.8$576.8



Page3








Non-U.S. dollar denominated securities account for about$83.6 billion, or14.5%, of our total assets under management atDecember 31, 2012.



Our target-date retirement portfolios, which provide shareholders with single, diversified portfolios that invest in underlying Price funds and other investment portfolios, continue to be a significant source of our asset growth. Of the firm’s net inflows of$17.2 billionin2012,$10.1 billionoriginated in these portfolios. Assets under management in these portfolios were$88.9 billionatDecember 31, 2012, including$80.2 billionin target-date retirement funds and$8.7 billionin target-date retirement trusts, and represent15.4%of our managed assets at year-end.



Six Price funds -Growth Stock,Equity Income,Mid-Cap Growth,Blue-Chip Growth,Value,New Income- accounted for25%of our investment advisory revenues in2012and21%of our assets under management atDecember 31, 2012. Our largest client account relationship apart from the T. Rowe Price funds is with a third-party financial intermediary that accounted for about3%of our investment advisory revenues in2012. Our international clients account for9.5%of our total assets under management atDecember 31, 2012.



See the Background section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report for more information on the2012market environment in which we operated.



PRICE FUNDS.



We provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the Price funds under various agreements. Investment advisory services are provided to each fund under individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T. Rowe Price name. The boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940), must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders must approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Independent directors and trustees of the Price funds regularly review our fee structures.



Advisory Services.



Investment advisory revenues earned from the Price funds are determined daily based on the net assets managed in each fund. The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the Price funds is computed on a daily basis by multiplying a fund’s net assets by a specific fee rate. For the majority of the Price funds, the fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group fee rate plus an individual fund rate that is set based on the fund’s specific investment objective.



The effective tiered group rate is based on the combined net assets of nearly all of the Price funds. When combined net assets of these Price funds exceeds$300.0 billion, the weighted-average fee across pricing tiers is30 basis pointsfor the first$300.0 billionof net assets plus28 basis pointsfor net assets in excess of $300 billion. To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds included in the group rate calculation increase, the group charge component of a fund's advisory fee rate, and therefore the advisory fee rate paid by each fund, will decrease.



The individual fund rates are flat rates with the exception of the individual rate for the Blue Chip Growth, Equity Income, Growth Stock and Mid-Cap Growth funds. These funds have an effective tiered individual fund rate in which their base individual rate is reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $15 billion.



The total effective fee rates determined in the above manner for those stock and bond funds that incurred advisory fees of at least$6.0 millionin2012varied from a low of40basis points for the Maryland Tax-Free Bond, Tax-Free Short-Intermediate and Short Term Bond funds to a high of105basis points for the Emerging Markets Stock, International Discovery, and Latin America funds.



The fee rate of several of the Price funds, including the Index and Summit funds as well as specific funds offered solely to institutional investors, do not include a group fee component but rather an individual fund fee or an all-inclusive fee, which covers both investment management and ordinary operating expenses. Each of the funds in the series of Spectrum Funds and in the series of target-date Retirement Funds that we offer invest in a diversified portfolio of other Price funds and have no separate investment advisory fee; however, they indirectly bear the expenses of the funds in which they invest.





Page4






We continued to voluntarily waive a portion of the advisory fees in 2012 of all of our money market funds and trusts in order to maintain a positive or zero yield for fund investors. Advisory fees waived in 2012 totaled$35.0 million, or about1%of total investment advisory revenues earned in2012, compared to$36.4 millionin2011. We expect that these fee waivers will continue in2013.



Each Price fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses.



We usually provide that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other mutual fund expenses in excess of these self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the waived fees and absorbed costs, but such recovery is not assured.



Details of each fund’s fee arrangement are available in its prospectus.



Distribution and Servicing.



Each of the Price funds has a distinct investment objective that has been developed as part of our strategy to provide a broad, comprehensive selection of investing opportunities. The Investor class of all Price funds can be purchased in the U.S. on a no-load basis, without a sales commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy method of directly investing in a variety of stock and fixed income portfolios.



Certain of the Price funds also offer Advisor and R classes of shares that are distributed to mutual fund shareholders, and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively, through third-party financial intermediaries. These share classes incur 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services. In addition, those Price funds offered to investors through variable annuity life insurance plans have a share class that incurs a 12b-1 fee of 25 basis points. Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment Services, is the principal distributor of the Price funds and enters into agreements with each intermediary. Payment of 12b-1 fees is made by each fund directly to the applicable intermediaries.



In accounting for 12b-1 fees, the applicable mutual fund share classes incur the related expense and we recognize the corresponding distribution and servicing fee revenue in our consolidated statements of income. We also recognize, as distribution and servicing costs in the consolidated statements of income, the corresponding payment of these fees from each fund to the third-party financial intermediaries. The fee revenue that we recognize from the funds and the expense that we recognize for the fees paid to third-party intermediaries are equal in amount and, therefore, do not impact our net operating income.



We believe that our lower fund cost structure, distribution methods, and fund shareholder and administrative services help promote the stability of our fund assets under management through market cycles.



Except as noted above for 12b-1 fees, we bear all advertising and promotion expenses associated with our distribution of the Price funds. These costs are recognized currently, and include advertising and direct mail communications to potential fund shareholders as well as substantial staff and communications capabilities to respond to investor inquiries. Marketing and promotional efforts are focused in print media, television, and the Internet. In addition, we direct considerable marketing efforts to defined contribution plans that invest in mutual funds. Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor interest, market conditions, new and existing investment offerings, and the development and expansion of new marketing initiatives, including enhancements to our website.



Administrative Services.



We provide advisory-related administrative services to the Price funds through our subsidiaries. T. Rowe Price Services provides mutual fund transfer agency and shareholder services, including maintenance of staff, facilities, and technology and other equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. T. Rowe Price Associates provides mutual fund accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of financial statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities and computation of daily net asset values per share. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting, plan administration and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in



Page5






the Price funds. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some services while the Price funds compensate us for maintaining and administering the individual participant accounts for those plans that invest in the funds.



Our trustee services are provided by another subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Trust Company. Through this Maryland-chartered limited-service trust company, we offer collective investment trust funds for investment by qualified retirement plans and serve as trustee for retirement plans and IRAs. T. Rowe Price Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans. Another subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Savings Bank, issues federally insured certificates of deposit.



We also provide non-discretionary advisory planning services to fund shareholders and potential investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services. These services are limited in scope and include retirement planning services, such as saving for retirement, transitioning into retirement, and income in retirement. An investment portfolio evaluation service is an integral part of these services. An ongoing checkup service is also available to assist an investor in remaining on track to achieve their financial goals.



Price Fund Assets under Management.



AtDecember 31, 2012, assets under our management in the Price funds aggregated$346.9 billion, an increase of19.9%or$57.5 billionfrom the beginning of the year. The following table presents the net assets (in billions) of our largest Price funds (net assets in excess of$1.0 billionatDecember 31, 2012) at December 31 and the year each fund was started.



20112012Stock and blended asset funds:Balanced (1991)2.83.1Blue Chip Growth (1993)11.615.4Capital Appreciation (1986)10.913.6Dividend Growth (1992)2.12.8Emerging Markets Stock (1995)5.67.1Equity Income (1985)21.324.3Equity Index 500 (1990)13.415.6Growth & Income (1982)1.11.2Growth Stock (1950)25.330.4Health Sciences (1995)3.15.0Institutional Emerging Markets Equity (2002).81.0Institutional Large-Cap Growth (2001)3.25.7Institutional Large-Cap Value (2000).71.0Institutional Mid-Cap Equity Growth (1996)1.92.9International Discovery (1988)2.22.9International Growth & Income (1998)4.26.1International Stock (1980)7.09.9Latin America (1993)2.01.8Media & Telecommunications (1993)1.92.3Mid-Cap Growth (1992)17.518.0Mid-Cap Value (1996)8.49.3New America Growth (1985)2.63.6New Asia (1990)3.64.7New Era (1969)4.54.4New Horizons (1960)7.99.7Overseas Stock (2006)3.65.4Personal Strategy Balanced (1994)1.31.4Personal Strategy Growth (1994).91.0



Page6






Real Assets (2010)2.42.9Real Estate (1997)2.93.6Science & Technology (1987)2.72.5Small-Cap Stock (1992)6.67.4Small-Cap Value (1988)6.87.8Value (1994)11.613.6Other stock and blended asset funds7.39.5211.7256.9Bond and money market funds:Emerging Markets Bond (1994)3.14.0GNMA (1985)1.71.8High Yield (1984)8.59.3Inflation Focused Bond (2006)2.83.8Institutional Floating Rate (2008)1.82.3Institutional High Yield (2002)2.12.6International Bond (1986)5.25.3Maryland Tax-Free Bond (1987)1.92.1New Income (1973)14.819.8Prime Reserve (1976)5.85.9Short-Term Bond (1984)5.66.3Summit Cash Reserves (1993)5.95.4Summit Municipal Intermediate (1993)1.92.3Tax-Free High Yield (1985)1.82.6Tax-Free Income (1976)2.93.1Tax-Free Short-Intermediate (1983)1.61.9U.S. Treasury Money (1982)1.92.0Virginia Tax-Free Bond (1991).91.0Other bond and money market funds7.58.577.790.0289.4346.9



The Spectrum and target-date retirement fund-of-funds series are not presented in the table above because their assets are already included in their underlying fund holdings.



Our operating subsidiaries invest in many of the T. Rowe Price funds.



OTHER INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS.



We managed$229.9 billionatDecember 31, 2012, in other client investment portfolios, up$29.8 billionfrom the beginning of the year. We provide investment advisory services to these clients through our subsidiaries on a separately managed or subadvised account basis and through sponsored investment portfolios, including collective investment trusts, Luxembourg-based funds offered to investors outside the U.S. and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. At December 31, these portfolios included the following investment assets:





Page7






20112012U.S. stocks$114.9$140.5International stocks25.823.7Stable value assets18.818.9Bonds and money market securities40.646.8$200.1$229.9



We charge fees for investment management to these clients based on, among other things, the specific investment services to be provided. Our standard form of investment advisory agreement for client accounts provides that the agreement may be terminated at any time and that any unearned fees paid in advance will be refunded.



Our fees for managing these investment portfolios are computed using the value of assets under our management at a contracted annual fee rate. The value of assets under management billed is generally based on daily valuations, month-end average valuations, or end of billing period valuations. In2012, approximately59%of advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio valuations,22%were based on month-end averages, and18%were based on end of billing period valuations.



REGULATION.



T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International Ltd, T. Rowe Price (Canada), T. Rowe Price Hong Kong Limited,

T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd., and T. Rowe Price Advisory Services are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. T. Rowe Price International Ltd is also regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in the United Kingdom and, in certain cases, by other foreign regulators. The Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) and Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) also regulate T. Rowe Price Hong Kong Limited and T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd., respectively. Our subsidiaries providing transfer agent services are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and our trust company is regulated by the State of Maryland, Commissioner of Financial Regulation. T. Rowe Price (Canada) is also registered with several of the provincial securities commissions in Canada.



The T. Rowe Price Savings Bank is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, U.S. Department of the Treasury. In addition, the Federal Reserve is now responsible for supervision of T. Rowe Price Group and T. Rowe Price Associates, as savings and loan holding companies, as well as the other T. Rowe Price non-depository subsidiaries.



T. Rowe Price Investment Services is a registered broker-dealer and member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. We provide introducing brokerage services through this subsidiary primarily to complement the other services provided to shareholders of the Price funds. Pershing, a third-party clearing broker and affiliate of the Bank of New York, maintains our brokerage’s customer accounts and clears all transactions.



All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients and the Price funds' shareholders. They generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the event that we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on us in the event that we fail to comply include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our investment adviser and other registrations, censures, and fines.



Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements including those of various federal, state, and international regulatory agencies. Each of our subsidiaries’ net capital, as defined, meets or exceeds all minimum requirements.



For further discussion of the potential impact of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements, please see the Legal and Regulatory risk factors included in Item 1A.



COMPETITION.



As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of proprietary and other sponsors’ mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, mutual fund companies, and other financial institutions in all aspects of our business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. Many of these financial institutions have substantially



Page8






greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to the acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship.



EMPLOYEES.



AtDecember 31, 2012, we employed5,372associates, up2%from the5,255associates employed at the end of2011. We may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and mutual fund administrative services.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION.

Our Internet address is www.troweprice.com. At our Investor Relations website, http://trow.client.shareholder.com, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, including:

•our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the SEC;



•our financial statement information from our periodic SEC filings in the form of XBRL data files that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted investor analysis;



•corporate governance information including our charter, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, code of ethics and conduct and other governance-related policies;



•other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting; and



•opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time.



The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.





