Item 1.  Business.

T. Rowe Price Group is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the sponsored T. Rowe
Price mutual funds and other investment portfolios, including separately managed accounts, subadvised funds, and other sponsored investment funds offered to investors outside the U.S. and through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S.

The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates was first offered to the public
in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group corporate holding company structure was established in 2000.

We derive the majority of our consolidated
revenue and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. and T. Rowe Price International Ltd. Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under our
management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations.

Our assets under management are accumulated from a diversified client base across four primary distribution channels: third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios
in the U.S. and other countries; individual U.S. investors on a direct basis; U.S. defined contribution retirement plans; and institutional investors in the U.S. and other countries. In general, over a third of our assets under management are
sourced from our third-party financial intermediary distribution channel with the remaining three distribution channels making up the balance.

We manage a broad range of U.S. and international stock, blended asset, bond, and money market mutual funds and other investment portfolios that are
designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of individual and institutional investors.

Investment objectives for our
managed investment portfolios, including the Price funds, accommodate a variety of strategies. Investors select from among the mutual funds based on the distinct objective that is described in each fund’s prospectus and can exchange balances
among the funds as permitted when economic and market conditions and their investment needs change. Investment management of other client portfolios includes approaches similar to those employed in the Price funds.

Equity investment strategies may emphasize large-cap, mid-cap or small-cap investing; growth, value or core investing; and U.S., global, or international
investing. We also offer systematic, tax-efficient, and blended equity and asset allocation investment strategies including target retirement-date investment portfolios, as well as active, systematic and municipal tax-free management strategies for
fixed income investments. Our specialized advisory services include management of stable value investment contracts and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities received from third-party venture capital investment
pools.

We employ fundamental and quantitative security analyses in the performance of the investment advisory function. We maintain
substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry and company



Page 2




research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financial and other information, financial newspapers and magazines, corporate rating
services, and field checks with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business sector. Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the United States and England with additional staff resident in Argentina,
Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and
market analysts. Our stock selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analyses using computerized data modeling.

From time to time, we introduce new funds and other investment portfolios to complement and expand our investment offerings, respond to competitive
developments in the financial marketplace, and meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will open a new mutual fund or investment portfolio if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and that its
objective will be useful for investors over a long period. Conversely, we may also limit new investments into a mutual fund or investment mandate in order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to protect the interests of its
existing fund shareholders and investors. At present, the following funds are closed to all new investors.



FundDate ClosedInstitutional Mid-Cap Equity GrowthDecember 8, 2003Institutional Small-Cap StockFebruary 20, 2004Mid-Cap GrowthMay 31, 2010Mid-Cap ValueMay 31, 2010

We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory clients. These
administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, distribution, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement
plans investing in our sponsored mutual funds; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; and trust services. Nearly 91% of our administrative and
distribution and servicing fee revenues in 2011 were determined based generally on the recovery of our related costs to provide these services. Changes in our administrative revenues, distribution and servicing fees, and related expenses, therefore,
do not significantly affect our net operating income or net income.

Information concerning our revenues, results of operations and total
assets, and our assets under management during the past three years is contained in our consolidated financial statements and in note 2 thereto, which are both included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

2011 DEVELOPMENTS.

Global markets were
unusually volatile during 2011 as economic and geopolitical concerns weighed heavily on investor confidence at times. In this uncertain and volatile environment, our assets under management increased $7.5 billion over the course of 2011 and ended
the year at $489.5 billion. Our strong relative investment performance and brand awareness contributed significantly to attracting net inflows of $14.1 billion that were sourced primarily from third-party financial intermediaries. Lower market
valuations and fund distributions not reinvested, reduced assets under management by $6.6 billion in 2011.



Page 3




The firm’s long-term investment advisory results relative to our peers remain strong, with 76% of the
T. Rowe Price funds across their share classes surpassing their comparable Lipper averages on a total return basis for the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, 86% outperforming for the five-year period, 77% outperforming for the 10-year
period, and 60% outperforming for the one-year period. In addition, T. Rowe Price stock, bond and blended asset funds that ended the quarter with an overall rating of four or five stars from Morningstar account for 83% of our rated funds’
assets under management.

Details of our assets under management (in billions) at December 31, 2011 are as follows:



Assets under management by investment portfolioT. Rowe Price mutual funds distributed in U.S.$289.4Other investment portfolios200.1$489.5Assets under management by asset classStock and blended asset portfolios$352.4Fixed income portfolios137.1$489.5Assets under management by account typeRetirement accounts and variable annuity portfolios$293.2Other portfolios196.3$489.5

Non-U.S. dollar denominated securities account for about $63.0 billion of our total assets under management at
December 31, 2011.

Our target-date retirement portfolios, which provide shareholders with single, diversified portfolios that invest in
the underlying T. Rowe Price funds and other investment portfolios, continue to be a significant source of asset growth. Of the firm’s net inflows of $14.1 billion in 2011, $8.0 billion originated in these portfolios. Assets under management in
these portfolios were $66.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and represent more than 13% of our managed assets at year-end.

Six Price funds
- Growth Stock, Mid-Cap Growth, Equity Income, Value, Blue Chip Growth, Capital Appreciation - accounted for 25% of our investment advisory revenues in 2011 and 20% of our assets under management at December 31, 2011. Our largest
client account relationship outside the T. Rowe Price funds is with a third-party financial intermediary that accounted for about 3% of our investment advisory revenues in 2011. Our international clients account for 11% of our total assets under
management at December 31, 2011.

See the Background section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report for more information on the 2011 market environment in which we operated.



Page 4




PRICE FUNDS.

We provide investment advisory, distribution and other administrative services to the Price funds under various agreements. Investment advisory services are provided to each fund under individual
investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T. Rowe Price name. The boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in
the Investment Company Act of 1940), must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders must approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its
assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations. Independent directors and trustees of the Price funds regularly review our fee structures.

Advisory and
Distribution Services.

Investment advisory revenues earned from the Price funds are determined daily based on the net assets managed in
each fund. The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the Price funds is computed on a daily basis by multiplying a fund’s net assets by a specific fee rate. For the majority of the Price funds, the fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group
rate that is set based on the aggregate net assets of nearly all of the Price funds and an individual fund rate that is set based on the fund’s specific investment objective.

The effective tiered group rate when combined net assets of nearly all of the Price funds exceed $220 billion is calculated based on a weighted-average fee across pricing tiers of 30.0 basis points for
the first $220 billion of net assets plus 28.5 basis points for net assets in excess of $220 billion. To the extent that the combined net assets of these funds increase, the group charge component of a fund’s advisory fee rate, and therefore
the advisory fee rate paid by each fund, will decrease. The individual fund rate for the Growth Stock, Mid-Cap Growth, Equity Income, and Blue Chip Growth is the weighted average of the base individual rate plus a 15% reduction in the individual
rate for net assets in excess of $15 billion.

The total effective fee rates determined in the above manner for those stock and bond funds
that incurred advisory fees of at least $5 million in 2011 varied from a low of 40 basis points for the Short Term Bond, Maryland Tax-Free Bond and Tax-Free Short-Intermediate funds to a high of 105 basis points for the Emerging Europe &
Mediterranean, International Discovery, Latin America, and Emerging Markets Stock funds.

Several of the Price funds, including the Index and
Summit funds as well as specific funds offered solely to institutional investors; do not include a group fee component but rather an individual fund fee or an all-inclusive fee, which covers both investment management and ordinary operating
expenses. Each of the funds in the series of Spectrum Funds and in the series of target-date Retirement Funds invest in a diversified portfolio of other Price funds and have no separate investment advisory fee. However, they indirectly bear the
expenses of the funds in which they invest.

Our money market funds experienced advisory fee rates in 2011 from a low of negative seven basis
points for the California Tax-Free Money Fund to a high of 18 basis points for the Summit Cash Reserves Fund, as we continued to voluntarily waive money market advisory fees to maintain a zero or positive yield for fund



Page 5




investors. We waived $36.4 million fees in 2011 compared to $25.1 million in 2010. We began waiving our money market advisory fees during the second half of 2009 and anticipate these fee waivers
will continue in 2012.

Details of each fund’s fee arrangement are available in its prospectus.

Each of the Price funds has a distinct investment objective that has been developed as part of our strategy to provide a broad, comprehensive selection
of investing opportunities. The Investor class of all Price funds can be purchased in the United States on a no-load basis, without a sales commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy method of
directly investing in a variety of stock and fixed income portfolios.

Certain of the Price funds also offer Advisor and R classes of shares
that are distributed to mutual fund shareholders, and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively, through third-party financial intermediaries. These share classes incur 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis points, respectively, for distribution,
administration, and personal services. In addition, those Price funds offered to investors through variable annuity life insurance plans have a share class that incurs a 12b-1 fee of 25 basis points. Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment
Services, is the principal distributor of the Price funds and enters into agreements with each intermediary. Payment of 12b-1 fees is made by each fund directly to the applicable intermediaries.

In accounting for 12b-1 fees, the applicable mutual fund share classes incur the related expense and we recognize the corresponding distribution and
servicing fee revenue in our consolidated statement of income. We also recognize, as distribution and servicing costs in the consolidated statement of income, the corresponding payment of these fees from each fund to the third-party financial
intermediaries. The fee revenue that we recognize from the funds and the expense that we recognize for the fees paid to third-party intermediaries are equal in amount and, therefore, do not impact our net operating income.

We believe that our lower fund cost structure, distribution methods, and fund shareholder and administrative services help promote the stability of our
fund assets under management through market cycles.

Each Price fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the
issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses; legal and auditing fees;
expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses.

We usually provide that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating
period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other mutual fund expenses in excess of these self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the waived
fees and absorbed costs.

Except as noted above for 12b-1 fees, we bear all advertising and promotion expenses associated with our
distribution of the Price funds. These costs are recognized currently, and include advertising and direct mail communications to potential fund shareholders as well as substantial staff and communications



Page 6




capabilities to respond to investor inquiries. Marketing and promotional efforts are focused in the print media, television, and the Internet. In addition, we direct considerable marketing
efforts to defined contribution plans that invest in mutual funds. Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor interest, market conditions, new and existing investment offerings, and the development and expansion of new
marketing initiatives, including enhancements to our website.

Administrative Services.

We provide advisory-related administrative services to the Price funds through our subsidiaries. T. Rowe Price Services provides mutual fund transfer
agency and shareholder services, including maintenance of staff, facilities, and technology and other equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. T. Rowe Price Associates provides mutual fund accounting services, including maintenance
of financial records, preparation of financial statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities and computation of daily net asset values per share. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting, plan
administration and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in the Price funds. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some services while the Price funds compensate us for maintaining and administering
the individual participant accounts for those plans that invest in the funds.

Our trustee services are provided by another subsidiary, T.
Rowe Price Trust Company. Through this Maryland-chartered limited-service trust company, we offer collective investment trust funds for investment by qualified retirement plans and serve as trustee for retirement plans and IRAs. T. Rowe Price Trust
Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans. Another subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Savings Bank, issues federally insured certificates of deposit.

We also provide non-discretionary advisory planning services to fund shareholders and potential investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services. These services are limited in scope
and include retirement planning services, such as saving for retirement, transitioning into retirement, and income in retirement. An investment portfolio evaluation service is an integral part of these services. An ongoing checkup service is also
available to assist an investor in remaining on track to achieve their financial goals.

Fund Assets under Management.

At December 31, 2011, assets under our management in the Price funds aggregated $289.4 billion, an increase of 2.4% or $6.8 billion from the
beginning of the year. The following table presents the net assets (in billions) of our largest funds (net assets in excess of $.7 billion at December 31) and the year each fund was started.



20102011Stock and blended asset funds:Balanced (1991)$2.9$2.8Blue Chip Growth (1993)11.911.6Capital Appreciation (1986)10.410.9Dividend Growth (1992)1.72.1Emerging Europe & Mediterranean (2000).8.4Emerging Markets Stock (1995)5.55.6Equity Income (1985)20.421.3Equity Index 500 (1990)13.213.4European Stock (1990).7.6



Page 7






Global Stock (1995).8.6

Growth & Income (1982)1.11.1

Growth Stock (1950)24.825.3

Health Sciences (1995)2.53.1

Institutional Emerging Markets Equity (2002).7.8

Institutional Large-Cap Growth (2001)2.63.2

Institutional Large-Cap Value (2000).5.7

Institutional Mid-Cap Equity Growth (1996).81.9

International Discovery (1988)2.72.2

International Growth & Income (1998)3.64.2

International Stock (1980)6.57.0

Latin America (1993)3.22.0

Media & Telecommunications (1993)1.91.9

Mid-Cap Growth (1992)20.317.5

Mid-Cap Value (1996)9.38.4

New America Growth (1985)1.32.6

New Asia (1990)5.23.6

New Era (1969)5.84.5

New Horizons (1960)7.77.9

Overseas Stock (2006)2.53.6

Personal Strategy Balanced (1994)1.41.3

Personal Strategy Growth (1994)1.0.9

Personal Strategy Income (1994).7.7

Real Assets (2010)1.62.4

Real Estate (1997)2.62.9

Science & Technology (1987)3.12.7

Small-Cap Stock (1992)6.86.6

Small-Cap Value (1988)7.16.8

Value (1994)11.811.6

Other stock and blended asset funds5.05.0



212.4211.7





Bond and money market funds:

Corporate Income (1995).7.6

Emerging Markets Bond (1994)2.73.1

GNMA (1985)1.61.7

High Yield (1984)8.28.5

Inflation Focused Bond (2006)2.42.8

Institutional Floating Rate (2008)1.01.8

Institutional High Yield (2002)1.32.1

International Bond (1986)4.95.2

Maryland Tax-Free Bond (1987)1.81.9

New Income (1973)12.614.8

Prime Reserve (1976)5.65.8

Short-Term Bond (1984)5.75.6

Summit Cash Reserves (1993)5.55.9

Summit Municipal Intermediate (1993)1.71.9

Tax-Exempt Money (1981).9.9

Tax-Free High Yield (1985)1.71.8

Tax-Free Income (1976)2.92.9

Tax-Free Short-Intermediate (1983)1.41.6

U.S. Bond Enhanced Index (2000)0.61.2

U.S. Treasury Money (1982)1.91.9

Virginia Tax-Free Bond (1991).8.9

Other bond and money market funds4.34.8



70.277.7



$282.6$289.4





Page 8




The Spectrum and Retirement fund of fund series are not presented in the table because their assets are
already included in their underlying fund holdings.

Our operating subsidiaries invest in many of the T. Rowe Price funds.

OTHER INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS.

We managed
$200.1 billion at December 31, 2011, in other client investment portfolios, up $.7 billion from the beginning of the year. We provide investment advisory services to these clients through our subsidiaries on a separately managed or subadvised
account basis and through sponsored investment portfolios, such as collective investment trusts, Luxembourg-based mutual funds, and variable annuity insurance plans. At December 31, these portfolios included the following investment assets:



20102011U.S. stocks$114.0$114.9International stocks34.225.8Stable value assets16.718.8Bonds and money market securities34.540.6$199.4$200.1

We charge fees for investment management to these clients based on, among other things, the specific investment services
to be provided. Our standard form of investment advisory agreement for client accounts provides that the agreement may be terminated at any time and that any unearned fees paid in advance will be refunded.

Our fees for managing these investment portfolios are computed using the value of assets under our management at a contracted annual fee rate. The value
of assets under management billed is generally based on daily valuations, month-end average valuations, or end of billing period valuations. In 2011, approximately 53% of advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio valuations, 27% were
based on month-end averages, and 19% were based on end of billing period valuations.

REGULATION.

T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International Ltd, T. Rowe Price (Canada), T. Rowe Price Hong Kong Limited, T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd.,
and T. Rowe Price Advisory Services are registered with the SEC as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. T. Rowe Price International Ltd is also regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in the United Kingdom and,
in certain cases, by other foreign regulators. The Securities and Futures Commission and Monetary Authority of Singapore also regulate T. Rowe Price Hong Kong Limited and T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd., respectively. Our transfer agent
services subsidiaries are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and our trust company is regulated by the State of Maryland, Commissioner of Financial Regulation. T. Rowe Price (Canada) is also registered with several of the
provincial securities commissions in Canada.

Due to changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, the T. Rowe Price Savings Bank is now
regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, U.S. Department of the Treasury. In addition, the Federal Reserve is now responsible for supervision of T. Rowe Price Group and T. Rowe Price Associates, as savings and loan holding
companies, as well as the other T. Rowe Price non-depository subsidiaries.



Page 9




T. Rowe Price Investment Services is a registered broker-dealer and member of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. We provide brokerage services through this subsidiary primarily to complement the other services provided to shareholders of the Price funds. Pershing, a third-party
clearing broker and affiliate of the Bank of New York, maintains our brokerage’s customer accounts and clears all transactions.

All
aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients and the Price funds' shareholders. They generally grant supervisory
agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the event that we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on us in the event that we
fail to comply include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our investment adviser and other registrations, censures, and fines.

Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements including those of various federal, state, and international regulatory agencies.
Each of our subsidiaries’ net capital, as defined, meets or exceeds all minimum requirements.

COMPETITION.

As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of
proprietary and other sponsors’ mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance
companies, banks, and other financial institutions in all aspects of our business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do. We compete with
other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. In order to
maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to the acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship.

EMPLOYEES.

At December 31,
2011, we employed 5,255 associates, up 4% from the 5,052 associates employed at the end of 2010. We may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for
technology and mutual fund administrative services.

SEC FILINGS.

We make available free of charge through our Internet web site our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. To obtain any of this information, access our web page
athttp://trow.client.shareholder.com/financials.cfm. We also make our financial statement information from our periodic SEC filings available on our website in the form of XBRL data files that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted
investor analysis.



Page 10




