Item 1.Business.



T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to individual and institutional investors in the sponsored T. Rowe Price mutual funds distributed in the United States and other investment portfolios. These other investment portfolios include separately managed accounts, subadvised funds, and other sponsored investment portfolios, including collective investment trusts, target-date retirement trusts, Luxembourg-based funds offered to investors outside the United States, and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S.



The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group corporate holding company structure was established in 2000.



We derive the vast majority of our consolidated net revenue and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price International Ltd. Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations. AtDecember 31, 2014, we had$746.8 billionin assets under management, including$477.6 billionin the Price funds and$269.2 billionin other investment portfolios.



Our assets under management are accumulated from a diversified client base across four primary distribution channels: third-party financial intermediaries that distribute our managed investment portfolios in the U.S. and other countries; individual U.S. investors on a direct basis; U.S. defined contribution retirement plans; and institutional investors globally. As ofDecember 31, 2014, nearlyforty-five percentof our assets under management are sourced from our third-party financial intermediary distribution channel with the remaining three distribution channels comprising the balance. We have taken steps to broaden and deepen our distribution reach in overseas markets and with financial intermediaries. These initiatives are part of multi-year plans designed to further diversify our assets under management and client base. In 2014, we made key hires and continued to make investments in infrastructure to support these initiatives over the long-term.



The assets we manage are a broad range of U.S. and international stock, blended asset, bond, and money market mutual funds and other investment portfolios that are designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of individual and institutional investors. Investors select mutual funds based on the distinct objective that is described in each fund’s prospectus and can exchange balances among the funds as permitted when economic and market conditions and their investment needs change. The investment objectives and investment management approaches employed in our other investment portfolios are similar to those in the Price funds. We also offer specialized advisory services, including management of stable value investment contracts and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities our clients receive from third-party venture capital investment pools.



Investment objectives for our managed investment portfolios, including the Price funds, accommodate a variety of strategies. Equity investment strategies may emphasize large-cap, mid-cap or small-cap investing; growth, value or core investing; and U.S., global, multi-regional and regional international, emerging market, and sector investing. Our fixed income strategies may focus on high yield, U.S. taxable bond, taxable low-duration, international, and municipal tax-free investing. We also combine strategies across asset classes to create solutions that help our clients achieve a single investment objective. To this end, we offer systematic, tax-efficient, blended equity, and asset allocation investment strategies, including target-date retirement investment portfolios.



We employ fundamental and quantitative security analysis in the performance of the investment advisory function through substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financial and other information, financial newspapers and magazines, corporate rating services, and field checks with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business sector. Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the U.S. and England with additional staff based in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our securities selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analysis using computerized data modeling.



From time to time, we introduce new funds and other investment portfolios to complement and expand our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients. We will introduce a new investment strategy if we believe that we have the appropriate investment



Page2






management expertise and that its objective will be useful for investors over a long period. Since the beginning of 2014, we have launched three new equity products—Asia Opportunities, Frontier Markets, and International Concentrated Equity—and three new fixed income products—Dynamic Global Bond, Credit Opportunities, and Intermediate Tax Free High Yield. Two additional fixed income products were opened in January 2015. We typically provide seed capital for the new investment portfolio to enable the portfolio manager to begin building an investment performance history in advance of the portfolio receiving sustainable client assets. The length of time we hold our seed capital investment will vary for each new investment portfolio as it is highly dependent on how long it takes to generate cash flows into the portfolio from unrelated investors. We attempt to ensure that the new investment portfolio has a sustainable level of assets from unrelated shareholders before we consider redemption of our seed capital investment in order to not negatively impact the new investment portfolio's net asset value or its investment performance record. At December 31, 2014, approximately39%of our investments in sponsored portfolios and other investments is considered seed investments.



Conversely, we may also limit new investments into a mutual fund or investment strategy in order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing fund shareholders and investors. At present, the following mutual funds and affiliated other investment portfolios are closed to new investors.

FundDate ClosedInstitutional Mid-Cap Equity Growth FundDecember 8, 2003Mid-Cap Growth FundMay 31, 2010Mid-Cap Value FundMay 31, 2010High Yield FundApril 27, 2012Institutional High Yield FundApril 27, 2012Institutional Small-Cap Stock FundDecember 31, 2013New Horizons FundDecember 31, 2013Small-Cap Stock FundDecember 31, 2013Capital Appreciation FundJune 30, 2014



We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, distribution, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in our sponsored mutual funds; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; and trust services. Substantially all of our administrative and distribution and servicing fee revenues in2014were determined based generally on the recovery of our related costs to provide these services. Therefore, changes in our administrative fees, distribution and servicing fees, and related expenses generally do not significantly affect our net operating income or net income.



In 2014, we made a long-term strategic decision to change our delivery of certain administrative services, including fund accounting and other investment recordkeeping operations. We are currently in negotiations with BNY Mellon to perform these services. If a formal agreement is reached, we do not expect that the impact on our future operating results will be material.



2014DEVELOPMENTS.



U.S. equities, as measured by the S&P 500 Index, rose in 2014 for the sixth consecutive year. The S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index, which is heavily weighted in technology companies, returned13.7%and13.4%, respectively, in 2014. Equities in developed non-U.S. markets declined in dollar terms in2014, as a stronger U.S. dollar versus other currencies reduced overseas returns to U.S. investors. Emerging markets equities, in aggregate, declined in dollar terms but held up better than developed non-U.S. markets. Global bonds produced mostly positive returns in2014.



Our2014results include net revenues of nearly$4.0 billion, net income of$1.2 billion, and diluted earnings per share of$4.55,an increaseof16.7%from the$3.90per share earned in2013.Investment advisory fees earned in2014are up14.6%over2013asaverage assets under our managementincreased$90.9 billion, or14.3%, to$724.7 billion. The average annualized fee rate earned on our assets under management was47.8basis points during2014, virtually unchanged from the47.7basis points earned in2013.



Six Price funds -Growth Stock,Equity Income,Mid-Cap Growth,Blue-Chip Growth,Value, andCapital Appreciation- accounted for27%of our investment advisory revenues in2014, and23%of our assets under management atDecember 31,



Page3






2014. Our largest client account relationship apart from the Price funds is with a third-party financial intermediary that accounted for about4%of our investment advisory revenues in2014.



Assets under management ended2014at a record$746.8 billion,an increaseof$54.4 billionfrom the end of2013. Market appreciation and income, net of distributions not reinvested, added$50.7 billionand net cash inflows added$3.7 billionin assets under management during2014. Net cash inflows of$11.8 billioninto the Price funds were partially offset by net cash outflows of$8.1 billionfrom our other investment portfolios. These net cash outflows were primarily from a few institutional and subadvisory clients who redeemed significant amounts from a small number of equity and fixed income strategies. The mutual fund and other investment portfolio 2014 cash flow amounts are each presented net of $5.3 billion in assets clients transferred from the mutual funds to other sponsored investment portfolios during the year, primarily our target-date retirement trusts.



Our target-date retirement funds and trusts, which provide shareholders with single, diversified portfolios that invest in underlying T. Rowe Price funds and T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts, continue to be a significant source of our asset growth. In2014, our net cash flows include$17.7 billionthat originated in these portfolios, including $13.2 billion in our target-date retirement funds.



Details of our assets under management (in billions) atDecember 31, 2014, are as follows:



Assets under management by investment portfolioSponsored U.S. mutual funds$477.6Other investment portfolios269.2Total$746.8Assets under management by mandateU.S. stocks and blended asset$496.9International stocks and blended asset83.0Total stock and blended asset portfolios579.9U.S. fixed income149.5International fixed income17.4Total fixed income portfolios166.9$746.8Assets under management by account typeRetirement accounts and variable annuity portfolios$511.2Other235.6$746.8



Our target-date retirement portfolios account for19.9%of our managed assets atDecember 31, 2014, compared with17.5%at the end of2013. The assets under management in these portfolios totaled$148.5 billionatDecember 31, 2014, including$126.0 billionin target-date retirement funds and$22.5 billionin target-date retirement trusts.



Non-U.S. dollar denominated securities held in client accounts are$100.7 billion, or13.5%of our total assets under management atDecember 31, 2014. Investors domiciled outside the U.S. represent5.6%of total assets under management at the end of2014. We service clients in36countries around the world.



Investment Performance.



Strong investment performance and brand awareness is a key driver to attracting assets and to our long-term success. As of the end of2014,74%of the T. Rowe Price U.S. mutual funds across their share classes outperformed their comparable Lipper averages on a total return basis for thethree-yearperiod,80%outperformed for thefive-yearperiod,88%outperformed for the10-yearperiod, and73%outperformed for theone-yearperiod. In addition, T. Rowe Price stock, bond and blended asset funds that were given an overall rating of four or five stars from Morningstar atDecember 31, 2014, account for82%of the assets



Page4






under management in our rated funds. The performance of our institutional strategies against their benchmarks was substantially similar. Our target-date retirement funds continue to deliver very attractive long-term performance, with100%of these funds outperforming their comparable Lipper averages on a total return basis for the three- and five-year periods endedDecember 31, 2014.



Capital Resources.



AtDecember 31, 2014, we remain debt-free with substantial liquidity and resources, including cash and fund investment holdings of$3.4 billion. During the full year of2014, we expended $415.5 million to repurchase 5.3 million shares of common stock. We generally repurchase shares of our common stock over time to offset the dilution created by our equity-based compensation plans. We presently plan to declare and pay quarterly cash dividends in2015that, taken together, will exceed the$1.76per share in annual regular dividends declared and paid in2014; however, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at increasing rates or at all.



We also invested $126 million during the year in capitalized technology and facilities from existing cash balances. We currently expect total capital expenditures for facilities, equipment, and technology development for2015to be up to$175 million, which will be funded from operating resources.



Our substantial liquidity and resources also allow us to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities; invest in key capabilities, including investment professionals, technologies, and new investment strategy offerings; and, most importantly, provide our clients with strong investment management expertise and service both now and in the future. In the coming years, we expect to increase funding for long-term initiatives to sustain and deepen our investment talent, expand capabilities through enhanced technology, and broaden our distribution reach globally.



Additional information concerning our revenues, results of operations and total assets, and our assets under management during the past three years is contained in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K as well as our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this report.



PRICE FUNDS.



We provide investment advisory, distribution, and other administrative services to the Price funds under various agreements. Investment advisory services are provided to each fund under individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T. Rowe Price name. The boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940), must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders must approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Independent directors and trustees of the Price funds regularly review our fee structures.



Advisory Services.



Investment advisory revenues earned from the Price funds are determined daily based on the net assets managed in each fund. The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the Price funds is computed on a daily basis by multiplying a fund’s net assets by its effective fee rate. Details of each fund's fee arrangement are available in its prospectus.



For the majority of the Price funds, the fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group fee rate plus an individual fund rate. The tiered group rate is based on the combined net assets of nearly all of the Price funds. If the combined net assets of these Price funds exceed$400 billion, the weighted-average fee across pricing tiers is29.5 basis pointsfor the first$400 billionof net assets plus27.5 basis pointsfor net assets in excess of$400 billion. To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds included in the group rate calculation increase, the group charge component of a fund's advisory fee rate and the resulting advisory fee rate paid by each fund will decrease.



The individual fund rates are generally flat rates that are set based on the fund’s specific investment objective. Several funds, including the Blue Chip Growth, Equity Income, Growth Stock and Mid-Cap Growth funds, have an effective tiered individual fund rate in which their base individual flat rate is reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $15 billion. The New Income and Value funds have their base individual flat rate reduced by about 20% on net assets in excess of $20 billion. The effective fee rates for the stock and bond funds on which we earned annual advisory fees of at least$6.0 millionin2014varied



Page5






from a low of39basis points for the Maryland Tax-Free Bond, Tax-Free Short-Intermediate, and Short-Term Bond funds to a high of104basis points for the Emerging Markets Stock, International Discovery, and Latin America funds.



The fee rate of several of the Price funds, including the Index and Summit funds as well as specific funds offered solely to institutional investors, do not include a group fee component but rather an individual fund fee or an all-inclusive fee. An all-inclusive fee covers both the investment management fee and ordinary operating expenses incurred by the fund. Each of the funds in the series of Spectrum Funds and in the series of target-date retirement funds that we offer invests in a diversified portfolio of other Price funds and has no separate investment advisory fee; rather, they indirectly bear the expenses of the funds in which they invest.



Each Price fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses.



We usually provide that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other mutual fund expenses in excess of these self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the waived fees and absorbed costs, but such recovery is not assured.



In2014, we continued to voluntarily waive advisory fees and other fund expenses of all of our money market funds and trusts in order to maintain a positive yield for investors. Total fees waived in 2014 were$58.4 million, or about2%of total investment advisory revenues earned during the year, compared to$51.2 millionin2013. We expect that these fee waivers will continue in2015.



Assets under Management.



AtDecember 31, 2014, assets under our management in the Price funds aggregated$477.6 billion, an increase of9.7%or$42.3 billionfrom the beginning of the year. The following table presents the net assets (in billions) and the year of formation of our largest Price funds (net assets in excess of$1.0 billionatDecember 31, 2014) at December 31.

20132014Stock and blended asset funds:Balanced (1991)$3.7$3.9Blue Chip Growth (1993)22.826.4Capital Appreciation (1986)19.122.9Dividend Growth (1992)4.14.6Emerging Markets Stock (1995)7.17.6Equity Income (1985)29.529.8Equity Index 500 (1990)20.224.4European Stock (1990)1.51.4Global Technology (2000)1.01.6Growth & Income (1982)1.51.6Growth Stock (1950)41.643.0Health Sciences (1995)8.611.8Institutional Large-Cap Core Growth (2003).91.5Institutional Large-Cap Growth (2001)9.711.7Institutional Large-Cap Value (2000)1.62.2Institutional Mid-Cap Equity Growth (1996)4.25.5Institutional Small-Cap Stock (2000)1.62.0International Discovery (1988)3.53.6International Growth & Income (1998)9.010.2



Page6






20132014International Stock (1980)12.312.9Media & Telecommunications (1993)3.33.2Mid-Cap Growth (1992)23.224.1Mid-Cap Value (1996)11.612.2New America Growth (1985)4.54.3New Asia (1990)4.64.0New Era (1969)4.33.6New Horizons (1960)15.815.4Overseas Stock (2006)7.59.4Personal Strategy Balanced (1994)1.71.7Personal Strategy Growth (1994)1.31.4Personal Strategy Income (1994)1.01.1Real Assets (2010)3.74.3Real Estate (1997)3.75.1Science & Technology (1987)3.43.7Small-Cap Stock (1992)10.39.8Small-Cap Value (1988)10.29.2Total Equity Market Index (1998)1.01.1Value (1994)18.222.2Other stock and blended asset funds8.98.6341.7373.0Bond and money market funds:Emerging Markets Bond (1994)3.94.3GNMA (1985)1.51.6High Yield (1984)9.89.4Inflation Focused Bond (2006)5.36.8Institutional Floating Rate (2008)3.23.2Institutional High Yield (2002)2.92.2International Bond (1986)5.04.6Maryland Tax-Free Bond (1987)1.82.0New Income (1973)21.327.4Prime Reserve (1976)6.46.6Short-Term Bond (1984)6.46.5Summit Cash Reserves (1993)5.75.3Summit Municipal Intermediate (1993)3.03.9Tax-Free High Yield (1985)2.23.3Tax-Free Income (1976)2.42.6Tax-Free Short-Intermediate (1983)1.92.1U.S. Treasury Money (1982)2.02.1Other bond and money market funds8.910.793.6104.6$435.3$477.6



The Spectrum Funds, Target Retirement Funds, and Retirement Date Funds are not presented in the table above because their assets are already included in the assets of their underlying fund holdings.



Our operating subsidiaries invest in many of the T. Rowe Price funds.



Page7








Administrative Services.



Our subsidiaries provide advisory-related administrative services to the Price funds and their shareholders. T. Rowe Price Services provides mutual fund transfer agency and shareholder services, including maintenance of staff, facilities, technology, and other equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. T. Rowe Price Associates provides mutual fund accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of financial statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities, and computation of daily net asset values per share. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting, plan administration, and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in both the Price funds and funds outside the Price fund complex. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some of the administrative services while the Price funds compensate us for maintaining and administering the individual participant accounts for those plans that invest in the Price funds.



We provide trustee services through our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Trust Company, a Maryland-chartered limited service trust company. Through this entity, we offer collective investment trusts for investment by qualified retirement plans and serve as trustee for employer sponsored retirement plans and other retirement products. T. Rowe Price Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans.



We also provide non-discretionary advisory planning services to fund shareholders and potential investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services. These services are limited in scope and include retirement planning services, such as saving for retirement, transitioning into retirement, and income in retirement. An investment portfolio evaluation service is an integral part of these services. An ongoing checkup service is also available to assist an investor in remaining on track to achieve their financial goals.



Distribution and Servicing.



The Investor class of all Price funds can be purchased in the U.S. on a no-load basis, without a sales commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy method of directly investing in a variety of stock and fixed income portfolios.



Certain of the Price funds also offer Advisor Class and R Class shares that are distributed to mutual fund shareholders, and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively, through third-party financial intermediaries. These share classes pay 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services. Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment Services, is the principal distributor of the Price funds and enters into a tri-party agreement with each intermediary and fund. Under the agreement, each fund is responsible to pay the distribution and service fees directly to the applicable intermediaries. In addition, those Price funds offered to investors through variable annuity life insurance plans have a share class that pays a 12b-1 fee of 25 basis points.



In accounting for 12b-1 fees, the applicable mutual fund share classes incur the related expense and we recognize the corresponding distribution and servicing fee revenue in our consolidated statements of income. We also recognize, as distribution and servicing costs in the consolidated statements of income, the corresponding cost paid to the third-party financial intermediaries who distribute these fund share classes. The fee revenue that we recognize from the funds and the expense that we recognize for the fees paid to third-party intermediaries are equal in amount and, therefore, do not impact our net operating income.



We believe that our lower fund cost structure, distribution methods, and fund shareholder and administrative services help promote the stability of our fund assets under management through market cycles.



Except as noted above for 12b-1 fees, we bear all advertising and promotion expenses associated with the distribution of the Price funds. These costs are recognized currently, and include advertising and direct mail communications to potential fund shareholders as well as substantial staff and communications capabilities to respond to investor inquiries. Marketing and promotional efforts are focused in print media, television, and the Internet. In addition, we direct considerable marketing efforts to defined contribution plans that invest in mutual funds. Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor interest, market conditions, new and existing investment offerings, and the development and expansion of new marketing initiatives, including the enhancement of our digital capabilities.





Page8






OTHER INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS.



Our other client investment portfolios had assets under management of$269.2 billionatDecember 31, 2014, an increase of$12.1 billionfrom the beginning of the year. We provide investment advisory services to these clients through our subsidiaries on a separately managed or subadvised account basis and through sponsored investment portfolios, including collective investment trusts, target-date retirement trusts, Luxembourg-based funds offered to investors outside the U.S., and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. At December 31, the assets under management in these portfolios included the following investment mandates:



20132014U.S. equities$171.5$179.3International equities23.827.6Stable value assets17.617.8Bonds and money market securities44.244.5$257.1$269.2



We charge fees for investment management to these clients based on, among other things, the specific investment services to be provided. Our standard form of investment advisory agreement for client accounts provides that the agreement may be terminated at any time and that any unearned fees paid in advance will be refunded.



Our fees for managing these investment portfolios are computed using the value of assets under our management at a contracted annual fee rate. The value of assets under management billed is generally based on daily valuations, month-end average valuations, or end of billing period valuations. In2014, approximately69%of advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio valuations,13%were based on month-end averages, and18%were based on end of billing period valuations.



Our subsidiaries, T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl and T. Rowe Price International provide management company and investment management services, respectively, to our Luxembourg-based SICAVs (Société d'Investissement à Capital Variable) and FCPs (Fonds Commun de Placement). These funds are distributed outside the U.S. through distribution agents and other financial intermediaries. The fees earned for these distribution and marketing services are part of the overall investment management fees earned for managing the SICAV and FCP fund assets. We recognize any related distribution fees paid to financial intermediaries in other operating expenses. At December 31, 2014, assets under management in these funds were $11.2 billion.



REGULATION.



T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, T. Rowe Price (Canada), Inc., T. Rowe Price Hong Kong Limited, T. Rowe Price Singapore Private Ltd. and T. Rowe Price Advisory Services, Inc. are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. T. Rowe Price International is also regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom and, in certain cases, by other foreign regulators in countries in which we have a license to conduct business. The Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) and Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) also regulate T. Rowe Price Hong Kong and T. Rowe Price Singapore, respectively. T. Rowe Price (Canada) is also registered with several of the provincial securities commissions in Canada. T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl, the management company of our Luxembourg-based FCP (Fonds Commun de Placement) and SICAV funds is regulated by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF).



Our subsidiaries providing transfer agent services are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and our trust company is regulated by the State of Maryland, Commissioner of Financial Regulation.



T. Rowe Price Investment Services is a registered broker-dealer and member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. We provide introducing brokerage services through this subsidiary primarily to complement the other services provided to shareholders of the Price funds. Pershing, a third-party clearing broker and affiliate of the BNY Mellon, maintains our brokerage’s customer accounts and clears all transactions.



Following the sale of 100% of the stock of T. Rowe Price Savings Bank in December 2013, T. Rowe Price Group received confirmation in early February 2014 from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond that T. Rowe Price Group and T. Rowe Price Associates were de-registered as savings and loan holding companies as defined in the Home Owners' Loan Act.



Page9








All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients and the Price funds' shareholders. They generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the event that we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on us, in the event that we fail to comply, include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our investment adviser, and other registrations, censures, and fines.



Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements including those of various federal, state, and international regulatory agencies. Each of our subsidiaries’ net capital, as defined, meets or exceeds all minimum requirements.



For further discussion of the potential impact of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements, please see the Legal and Regulatory risk factors included in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



COMPETITION.



As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of proprietary and other sponsors’ mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks, and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, and other financial institutions and funds in all aspects of our business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to the acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship.



EMPLOYEES.



AtDecember 31, 2014, we employed5,870associates, up3.6%from the5,668associates employed at the end of2013. We may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and mutual fund administrative services.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION.

Our Internet address is troweprice.com. At our Investor Relations website, http://trow.client.shareholder.com, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain our websites as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us and as a channel of distribution for material company information, including but not limited to:

•our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with, or furnish them to the SEC;



•our financial statement information from our periodic SEC filings in the form of XBRL data files that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted investor analysis;



•corporate governance information including our charter, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, senior officer code of ethics and conduct, and other governance-related policies;



•other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting; and



•opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time.



The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.





Page10








