ITEM 1.Business



Overview



We design, develop, and sell innovative products and services that together provide our customers with high-performance network infrastructurebuilt on simplicity, security, openness and scale. We serve the high-performance networking requirements of global service providers, enterprises, and public sector organizations that view the network as critical to their success. We believe we are well positioned in the networking industry based on our core competencies in architecture, silicon design, and our open cross-network software platform that includes the Junos® operating system (“Junos OS”), Junos Space network application platform, and Junos Pulse integrated network client. We offer a broad product portfolio that spans routing, switching, security, application access, and mobility device security, which is designed by management to provide performance, choice, and flexibility while reducing overall total cost of ownership. In addition, through strong industry partnerships, we are fostering innovation across the network.



Our operations are organized into two reportable segments: Infrastructure and Service Layer Technologies (“SLT”). Our Infrastructure segment primarily offers scalable routing and switching products that are used to control and direct network traffic from the core, through the edge, aggregation, and the customer premise equipment level. Infrastructure products include our Internet Protocol (“IP”) routing, carrier Ethernet routing portfolio, and Ethernet switching portfolio. Additionally, the Infrastructure segment offers a complete wireless local area network ("WLAN") solution that provides high reliability, performance, security, and management for mobile applications. Our SLT segment offers solutions that meet a broad array of our customers' priorities, from protecting the users, applications and data on the network itself to providing network services across a distributed infrastructure. Both segments offer worldwide services, including technical support and professional services, as well as educational and training programs to our customers. Together, our high-performance product and service offerings help our customers to convert legacy networks that provide commoditized services into more valuable assets that provide differentiation, value, and increased performance, reliability, and security to end-users. See Note 13,

Segment Information

, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for financial information regarding each of our Infrastructure and SLT segments, which is incorporated herein by reference.



During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we generated net revenues of$4,448.7 millionand net income attributable to Juniper Networks of$425.1 million, and conducted business in more than 100 countries around the world. See Item 8 of Part II for more information on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011, and 2010 and our consolidated statements of operations, consolidated statements of changes in equity, and consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011.



We were incorporated in California in 1996 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1998. Our corporate headquarters are located in Sunnyvale, California. Our website address is www.juniper.net.



Our Strategy



Our objective and strategy is to be the leading provider of high-performance network infrastructure by transforming the experience and economics of networking.Our strategy is centered on innovation and customer value. Key elements of our strategy are described below.



Maintain and Extend Technology Leadership



We are recognized around the world as the innovation leader in networking. Our Junos OS, application-specific integrated circuit (“ASIC”) technology, and network-optimized product architecture have been key elements to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership. We believe that these elements can be leveraged for future products that we are currently developing. We intend to maintain and extend our technological leadership in the service provider and enterprise markets primarily through innovation and continued investment in research and development (“R&D”), supplemented by external partnerships, including strategic alliances and strategic acquisitions that would allow us to deliver a broad range of products and services to customers in target markets.











Leverage Position as Supplier of High-Performance Network Infrastructure



We are a pure play in high-performance networking. From inception, we have focused on designing, developing, and building high-performance network infrastructure for demanding service provider and enterprise networking environments and have integrated purpose-built technology into a network-optimized architecture that specifically meets customer needs. We believe that many customers will deploy networking equipment from only a few vendors, and that the performance, reliability, and security of our products will provide us with a competitive advantage, which is critical to be selected as one of these vendors.



Be Strategic to Our Customers



In developing our Infrastructure and SLT solutions, we work very closely with customers to design and build best-in-class products and solutions specifically designed to meet their complex needs. Over time, we have expanded our understanding of the escalating demands and risks facing our customers, which has enabled us to design additional capabilities into our products. We believe our close relationships with, and constant feedback from, our customers have been key elements in our design wins and rapid deployments to date. We plan to continue to work hand-in-hand with our customers to implement product enhancements, as well as to design products that meet the evolving needs of the marketplace, while enabling customers to reduce costs. We are committed to investing in R&D at a level that drives our innovation agenda, enabling us to deliver highly differentiated products and outstanding value to our customers.



Enable New IP-Based Services



Our platforms enable network operators to quickly build and secure networks cost-effectively and deploy new differentiated services to drive new sources of revenue more efficiently than legacy network products. We believe that the secure delivery of IP-based services and applications, including web hosting, outsourced Internet and intranet services, outsourced enterprise applications, and voice-over IP, will continue to grow and benefit from cost efficiencies enabled by our high-performance network infrastructure offerings. By enabling these new IP-based services, we have significantly broadened our service provider business over the last several years while also significantly expanding our presence in the enterprise market.



Establish and Develop Industry Partnerships



Our customers have diverse requirements. While our products meet certain requirements of our customers, our products are not intended to satisfy all of their requirements. Therefore, we believe that it is important that we attract and build relationships with other industry leaders with diverse technologies and services that extend the value of the network to our customers. These partnerships ensure that our customers have access to those technologies and services, whether through technology integration, joint development, resale, or other collaboration, in order to better support a broader set of our customers' requirements. In addition, we believe an open network infrastructure that invites partner innovation provides customers with greater choice and control in meeting their evolving business requirements, while enabling them to reduce costs.



Markets and Customers



We sell our high-performance network products and service offerings through direct sales and through distributors, value-added resellers, and original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) partners to end-users in the following markets:



Service Providers



Service providers include wireline, wireless, and cable operators, as well as major Internet content and application providers. We support most major service provider networks in the world and our high-performance network infrastructure offerings are designed and built for the performance, reliability, and security that service providers demand. We believe our networking infrastructure offerings benefit our service provider customers by:



•Reducing capital and operational costs by running multiple services over the same network using our high density and highly reliable platforms;



•Creating new or additional revenue opportunities by enabling new services to be offered to new market segments based on our product capabilities;



•Increasing customer satisfaction, while lowering costs, by enabling consumers to self-select automatically provisioned service packages that provide the quality, speed, and pricing they desire; and











•Providing increased asset longevity and higher return on investment as their networks can scale to multi-terabit rates based on the capabilities of our platforms.



While many of these service providers have historically been categorized separately as wireline, wireless, or cable operators, in recent years, we have seen a move towards convergence of these different types of service providers through acquisitions, mergers, and partnerships. We believe these strategic developments are made technically possible as operators invest in the build out of next generation networks capable of supporting voice, video, and data traffic on to the same IP-based network. This convergence relies on IP-based traffic processing and creates the opportunity for multi-service networks and offer service providers significant new revenue opportunities.



We believe that there are several other trends affecting service providers for which we are well positioned to deliver products and solutions. These trends include significant growth in IP traffic on service provider networks because of peer-to-peer interaction, broadband usage, video, an increasing reliance on the network as a mission critical business tool in the strategies of our IP customers and of their enterprise customers, the advent of datacenter "clouds" that concentrate business applications in large, IP network connected facilities, and growth in mobile traffic as a result of the increase in mobile device usage including notebooks, netbooks, smartphones, and tablets.



The IP infrastructure market for service providers includes: products and technology at the network core; the network edge to enable access; the aggregation layer; security to protect from the inside out and the outside in; the application awareness and intelligence to optimize the network to meet business and user needs; and the management, service awareness, and control of the entire infrastructure.



Enterprise



Our high-performance network infrastructure offerings are designed to meet the performance, reliability, and security requirements of the world's most demanding businesses. Enterprises and public sector organizations, such as governments and research and education institutions, that view their networks as critical to their success are able to deploy our solutions as a powerful component in delivering the advanced network capabilities needed for their leading-edge applications. In addition, our solutions:



•Assist in the consolidation and delivery of existing services and applications;



•Accelerate the deployment of new services and applications;



•Offer integrated security to assist in the protection and recovery of services and applications; and



•Offer operational improvements that enable cost reductions, including lower administrative, training, customer care, and labor costs.



As with the service provider market, innovation continues to be a critical component in our strategy for the enterprise market. High-performance enterprises require networks that are global, distributed, and always available. Network equipment vendors serving these enterprises need to demonstrate performance, reliability, and security with best-in-class open solutions for maximum flexibility. We offer enterprise solutions and services for data centers, branch and campus applications, distributed and extended enterprises, and Wide Area Network (“WAN”) gateways.



As customers increasingly view the network as critical to their success, we believe that customers will increasingly demand fast, reliable, and secure access to services and applications over a single IP-based network. This is partly illustrated by the success of our SRX Services Gateways that consolidate switching, routing, and security services in a single device, Integrated Security Gateway (“ISG”) products that combine firewall/virtual private network (“VPN”) and intrusion detection and prevention (“IDP”) solutions in a single platform, and Secure Services Gateway (“SSG”) platforms that provide a mix of high-performance security with Local Area Network (“LAN”)/WAN connectivity for regional and branch office deployments. We will continue to invest to develop these and other converged technologies and solutions.



Customers with Ten Percent of Net Revenues or Greater



No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total net revenues for 2011. Verizon Communications, Inc. accounted for greater than 10% of our total net revenues in 2010. AT&T, Inc., accounted for greater than 10% of our total net revenues in 2009.











Our Products and Technology



Early in our history, we developed, marketed, and sold the first commercially available purpose-built IP backbone router optimized for the specific high-performance requirements of service providers. As the need for core bandwidth continued to increase, the need for service rich platforms at the edge of the network was created.



Our Infrastructure products are designed to address the needs at the core and the edge of the network, as well as for wireless access, by combining high-performance packet forwarding technology and robust operating systems into a network-optimized solution. In addition, as enterprises continue to develop and rely upon more sophisticated and pervasive internal networks, we believe the need for products with high-performance routing and switching technology is expanding to a broader set of customers, and we believe our expertise in this technology well positions us to address this growing market opportunity.



Additionally, our SLT segment offers a broad family of network security solutions that deliver high-performance, cost-effective security for enterprises, service providers, and government entities, including integrated firewall and VPN solutions, secure sockets layer (“SSL”) VPN appliances, and IDP appliances. We also offer complementary products and technologies to enable our customers to provide additional IP-based services and enhance the performance and security of their existing networks and applications.



The following is an overview of our major Infrastructure and SLT product families:



Infrastructure Products



•T Series, and M Series:Our T Series core routers are primarily designed for core IP infrastructures and are also being sold into the multi-service environment. Our M Series routers are extremely versatile as they can be deployed at the edge of operator networks, in small and medium core networks, enterprise networks, and in other applications. The T Series and M Series products leverage our ASIC technology and Junos OS to enable consistent, continuous, reliable, and predictable service delivery.



•PTX Series:Our PTX Series is a large capacity (8 and 16 tbps) MPLS-optimized packet transport switch for the largest core networks, especially of content service providers and Tier 1 service providers, with high throughout of packet traffic. MPLS is the technology for building scalable and flexible cores. The PTX Series is a purpose built packet transport platform with a new generation of ASIC technololgy, the Express chipset, which is a lower power, high speed chipset that enables service providers to reduce cost. We expect to begin shipping our PTX Series switches toward the end of the first quarter of 2012.



•E Series:Our E Series products are a full featured platform designed for the network edge with support for carrier-class routing, broadband subscriber management services, and a comprehensive set of IP services. Leveraging our JunosETMsoftware, the E Series service delivery architecture enables service providers to easily deploy innovative revenue-generating services to their customers. All E Series platforms offer a full suite of routing protocols and provide scalable capacity for tens of thousands of users.



•MX Series:The MX Series is a product family developed to address emerging Ethernet network architectures and services in service provider and enterprise networks. Using our Junos OS, the MX platforms provide the carrier-class performance, scale, and reliability to enable service providers and enterprises to support large-scale Ethernet deployments. The MX Series also leverages our Junos Trio chipset with “3D Scaling” technology, which functions as an Universal Edge platform capable of supporting all types of business, mobile, and residential services optimized for Ethernet and addresses a wide range of deployments architectures, port densities, and interfaces for both service provider and enterprise environments.



•EX Series:Our EX Series family extends our product portfolio running our Junos OS to address the Ethernet switch market. Ethernet is a widely used technology used to transport information in enterprise networks. Our EX Series switches are designed to enable customers to cost effectively accelerate and simplify the installation and management of business applications across their networks and enhance network operations without compromising performance.



•QFabric Products: The Juniper Networks QFabric family of products offers a revolutionary approach that delivers quantum leap improvements in data center performance, operating costs, and business agility for enterprises, high-performance computing systems, and large-scale cloud providers.  The QFabric product family implements a single-tier network in the data center, enabling exponential improvements in speed, scale and efficiency by removing









legacy barriers and improving business agility.



•WLAN Products:The WLAN product family is an important component in our campus strategy and is critical to Juniper’s differentiation of delivering end-to-end wired and wireless switching infrastructure. The WLAN product family provides the highest levels of reliability, performance, security, and management for today's most demanding mobile applications.



SLT Products



•Services Gateway, Integrated Firewall, and VPN Solutions:Our SRX Series of dynamic services gateways, running our Junos software, provides firewall/VPN performance and scalability and combines routing, switching, and security functionality.  The series is designed to meet network and security requirements for data center consolidation, rapid managed services deployments, and aggregation of security services. Our firewall and VPN systems and appliances are designed to provide integrated firewall, VPN, and denial of service protection capabilities for both enterprise environments and service provider network infrastructures. These products range from our SSG product series, which combines LAN/WAN routing capabilities with unified threat management features such as antivirus, anti-spam, and web filtering technologies, to our ISG and NetScreen Series firewall and VPN systems, which are designed to deliver high-performance security in medium/large enterprises, carrier networks, and data centers.



•Secure Access Appliances:Our Junos Pulse, Junos Pulse Mobile Security Suite, and SA Series SSL VPN appliances, designed for use in companies of all sizes, are used to provide secure access to corporate resources for remote and mobile users from any web-enabled device, regardless of location.



•IDP Series Appliances:Our IDP Series appliances utilize advanced intrusion detection methods to increase the detection rate of and prevent network attacks, as well as provide fast and efficient traffic processing and alarm collection, presentation, and forwarding. Once an attack is detected, our IDP appliances prevent the intrusion by dropping the packets or connection associated with the attack, reducing or eliminating the effects of the attack.



•Identity and Policy Control Solutions:Our portfolio of identity and policy control solutions integrate subscriber privileges, application requirements, and business policies with the IP network infrastructure in order to improve the end-user experience, enhance security, and help reduce operational costs.



See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for an analysis of net product revenues by segment.



Platform Strategy



In addition to our major product families, our extended software portfolio, known as Junos Platform, is a key technology element in our strategy to be the leader in high-performance networking. The Junos Platform enables our customers to expand network software into the application space, deploy software clients to control delivery, and accelerate the pace of innovation with an ecosystem of developers. The Junos Platform includes:



•Junos OS- At the heart of the Junos Platform is Junos OS. We believe Junos OS is fundamentally superior to other network operating systems in not only its design, but also in its development capabilities. The advantages of Junos OS include:



◦One modular operating system with single source base of code and a single, consistent implementation for each control plane feature;



◦One software release train extended through a highly disciplined and firmly scheduled development process; and



◦One common modular software architecture that scales across all Junos-based platforms.



Junos OS is designed to maintain continuous systems and improve the availability, performance, and security of business applications running across the network. Junos OS helps to automate network operations by providing a single consistent implementation of features across the network in a single release train that seeks to minimize the complexity, cost, and risk associated with implementing network features and upgrades. This operational efficiency









allows network administrators more time to innovate and deliver new revenue-generating applications, helping to advance the economics of high-performance networking.



The security and stability of Junos OS, combined with its modular architecture and single source code base, provides a foundation for delivering performance, reliability, security, and scale at a lower total cost of ownership than multiple operating code base environments. With an increasing number of our platforms able to leverage Junos OS, including routing, switching, and security products, we believe Junos OS provides us a competitive advantage over other major network equipment vendors.



•Junos Space -Our Junos Space network management platform offers an open, Service-Oriented Architecture-based ("SOA") platform for creating organic and third party network management applications to drive network innovation.  Junos Space includes applications for network infrastructure management and automation that help customers reduce operational cost and complexity and scale services. These include Network Activate, Ethernet Design, Route Insight, Security Design, Virtual Control, Service Now and Service Insight.



•Junos Pulse -Junos Pulse is a dynamic, integrated network client that delivers unified location-aware, identity-enabled network security, connectivity, access, and acceleration. It simplifies mobility and streamlines fast network and application access regardless of location, while supporting select third-party application development and integration.



Major Product Development Projects





Customer Service



In addition to our Infrastructure and SLT products, we offer support, professional, and educational services. We deliver these services directly to end-users and utilize a multi-tiered support model, leveraging the capabilities of our partners and third-party organizations, as appropriate.



We also train our channel partners in the delivery of support, professional, and educational services to ensure these services are locally delivered.



As of December 31, 2011, we employed1,289people in our worldwide customer service and support organization. We believe that a broad range of support services is essential to the successful customer deployment and ongoing support of our products, and we have hired support engineers with proven network experience to provide those services.



Manufacturing and Operations



As of December 31, 2011, we employed296people in worldwide manufacturing and operations who primarily manage relationships with our contract manufacturers, manage our supply chain, and monitor and manage product testing and quality.



We have subcontracted the majority of our manufacturing activity with Celestica Incorporated, Flextronics International LTD, Plexus Corporation, and Accton Technology. Our manufacturing is primarily conducted through contract manufacturers in the United States, China, Malaysia, Mexico, and Taiwan.











Our contract manufacturers in all locations are responsible for all phases of manufacturing from prototypes to full production and assist with activities such as material procurement, final assembly, test, control, shipment to our customers, and repairs. Together with our contract manufacturers, we design, specify, and monitor the tests that are required to meet internal and external quality standards. These arrangements provide us with the following benefits:



•We can quickly deliver products to customers with turnkey manufacturing and drop-shipment capabilities;



•We gain economies of scale by leveraging our buying power with our contract manufacturers when we purchase large quantities of components;



•We operate with a minimum amount of dedicated space for Manufacturing Operations; and



•We can reduce our costs by reducing what would normally be fixed overhead expenses.



Our contract manufacturers manufacture our products based on our rolling product demand forecasts. Each contract manufacturer procures components necessary to assemble the products in our forecast and tests the products according to our specifications. Products are then shipped to our distributors, value-added resellers, or end-users. Generally, we do not own the components, and title to the products transfers from the contract manufacturers to us and immediately to our customers upon delivery at a designated shipment location. If the components remain unused or the products remain unsold for specified period, we may incur carrying charges or obsolete material charges for components that our contract manufacturers purchased to build products to meet our forecast or customer orders.



Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, those contracts merely set forth a framework within which the contract manufacturer may accept purchase orders from us. The contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis.



We also purchase and hold inventory for strategic reasons and to ensure adequate component supplies. The majority of our inventory is production components. As a result, we may incur additional holding costs and obsolescence charges, particularly in light of current macroeconomic conditions and the resulting uncertainties in future product demand.



Our ASICs are manufactured primarily by sole or limited sources, such as International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”), each of which is responsible for all aspects of ASICs production using our proprietary designs.



By working collaboratively with our suppliers, we have the opportunity to promote socially responsible business practices beyond our company and into our worldwide supply chain. To this end, we have adopted, and promote other to adoption, the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (“EICC”). The EICC outlines standards to ensure that working conditions in the electronics industry supply chain are safe, workers are treated with respect and dignity, and manufacturing processes are environmentally responsible.



Research and Development



We have assembled a team of skilled engineers with extensive experience in the fields of high-end computing, network system design, ASIC design, security, routing protocols, software applications and platforms, and embedded operating systems. As of December 31, 2011, we employed4,138people in our worldwide R&D organization.



We believe that strong product development capabilities are essential to our strategy of enhancing our core technology, developing additional applications, integrating that technology, and maintaining the competitiveness and innovation of our product and service offerings. In our Infrastructure and SLT products, we are leveraging our software ASIC and systems technology, developing additional network interfaces targeted to our customers' applications, and continuing to develop technology to support the anticipated growth in IP network requirements. We continue to expand the functionality of our products to improve performance reliability and scalability, and to provide an enhanced user interface.



Our R&D process is driven by the availability of new technology, market demand, and customer feedback. We have invested significant time and resources in creating a structured process for all product development projects. Following an assessment of market demand, our R&D team develops a full set of comprehensive functional product specifications based on inputs from the product management and sales organizations. This process is designed to provide a framework for defining and addressing the steps, tasks, and activities required to bring product concepts and development projects to market. Expenditures for R&D were$1,026.8 million,$917.9 million, and$741.7 millionin 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.











Sales and Marketing



As of December 31, 2011, we employed2,568people in our worldwide sales and marketing organization. These sales and marketing employees operate in different locations around the world in support of our customers.



Our sales organization, with its structure of sales professionals, system engineers, and marketing and channel teams, is generally split between service provider and enterprise customers. Within each team, sales team members serve the following three geographic regions: (i) Americas (including United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central and South America), (ii) Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”), and (iii) Asia Pacific (“APAC”). Within each region, there are regional and country teams, as well as major account teams, to ensure we operate close to our customers.

See Note 13,Segment Information, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for information concerning our revenues by geographic regions and by significant customers, which is incorporated herein by reference. Our operations subject us to certain risks and uncertainties associated with international operations. See Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors,” for more information.



Our sales teams operate in their respective regions and generally either engage customers directly or manage customer opportunities through our distribution and reseller relationships or channels as described below.



In the United States and Canada, we sell to several service providers directly and sell to other service providers and enterprise customers primarily through distributors and resellers. Almost all of our sales outside the United States and Canada are made through our channel partners.



Direct Sales Structure



Our sales team engages with customers with which we have direct relationships.  The terms and conditions of these arrangements are governed either by customer purchase orders and our acknowledgment of those orders or by purchase contracts.  The direct contracts with these customers set forth only general terms of sale and do not require customers to purchase specified quantities of our products.  We directly receive and process customer purchase orders.



Channel Sales Structure



A critical part of our sales and marketing efforts are our channel partners through which we do the majority of our sales. We employ various channel partners, including but not limited to:



•A global network of strategic distribution relationships, as well as region-specific or country-specific distributors who in turn sell to local value-added resellers who sell to end-user customers. Our distribution channel partners mainly sell our SLT products plus certain Infrastructure products that are often purchased by our enterprise customers. These distributors tend to be focused on particular regions or countries within regions. For example, we have substantial distribution relationships with Ingram Micro in the Americas and with NEC in Japan. Our agreements with these distributors are generally non-exclusive, limited by region, and provide product discounts and other ordinary terms of sale. These agreements do not require our distributors to purchase specified quantities of our products.



•Direct value-added resellers, including our strategic worldwide resellers referenced below, resell our products to end-users around the world. These direct value-added resellers buy the products and services directly from us and have expertise in deploying complex networking solutions in their respective markets. Our agreements with these direct value-added resellers are generally non-exclusive, limited by region, and provide product discounts and other ordinary terms of sale. These agreements do not require our direct value-added resellers to purchase specified quantities of our products. Increasingly, our service provider customers also resell our products to their customers or purchase our products for the purpose of providing managed services to their customers.



•Strategic worldwide reseller relationships with Nokia Siemens Networks B.V. ("NSN"), Ericsson Telecom A.B. (“Ericsson”), and IBM. These companies each offer services and products that complement, but in some cases compete with, our own product offerings and act as a fulfillment partner for our products. Our arrangements with these partners allow them to resell our products on a worldwide, non-exclusive basis, provide for product discounts, and specify other general terms of sale. These agreements do not require these partners to purchase specified quantities of our products.











•OEM relationships with Dell Corporation and IBM. Our OEM arrangements with these partners allow them to rebrand and resell certain of our product lines on a worldwide, non-exclusive basis, provide for product discounts, and specify other general terms of sale. These agreements do not require these partners to purchase specified quantities of our products.



In addition to our sales that are direct to customers or that are made entirely through channel partners, we have a “direct touch” sales team that works directly with channel partners on key accounts in order to maintain a direct relationship with our more strategic end-user customers while at the same time supporting the ultimate fulfillment of product through our channel partners.



Backlog



Our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders under framework agreements with our customers. At any given time, we have backlog orders for products that have not shipped. Because customers may cancel purchase orders or change delivery schedules without significant penalty, we believe that our backlog at any given date may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results. As of December 31, 2011, and 2010, our total product backlog was approximately$301 millionand$330 million, respectively. Our product backlog consists of confirmed orders for products scheduled to be shipped to customers, generally within the next six months,and excludes orders from distributors as we recognize product revenue on sales made through distributors upon sell-through to end-users, certain future revenue adjustments for items such as product revenue deferrals, sales return reserves, service revenue allocations, and early payment discounts.





Seasonality



Many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the first and third quarters. In addition, our SLT segment generally experiences seasonally strong customer demand in the fourth quarter. This historical pattern should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future net revenues or financial performance.



Competition



Infrastructure Business



In the network infrastructure business, Cisco Systems, Inc. ("Cisco") has historically been the dominant player in the market. However, other companies such as Alcatel-Lucent, Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. ("Brocade"), Extreme Networks, Inc., Hewlett Packard Company ("HP"), and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. ("Huawei") are also our principal competitors.



Many of our current and potential competitors, such as Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, HP, and Huawei bundle their products with other networking products in a manner that may discourage customers from purchasing our products. In addition, consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressure faced by us due to their increased size and breadth of their product portfolios. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases that they may leverage to compete more effectively. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, negatively affecting our operating results.



SLT Business



In the market for SLT products, Cisco generally is our primary competitor with its broad range of products. In addition, there are a number of other competitors for each of the product lines within SLT, including Check Point Software Technologies, F5 Networks, Inc., Palo Alto Networks, Inc., and Riverbed Technology, Inc. These additional competitors tend to be focused on single product line solutions and, therefore, may be considered specialized compared to our broader product line. In addition, a number of public and private companies have announced plans for new products to address the same needs that our products address. We believe that our ability to compete with Cisco and others depends upon our ability to demonstrate that our products are superior in meeting the needs of our current and potential customers.



For both product groups, we expect that over time, large companies with significant resources, technical expertise, market experience, customer relationships, and broad product lines, such as Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, and Huawei, will introduce new products designed to compete more effectively in the market. There are also several other companies that claim to have products with greater capabilities than our products. There continues to be consolidation in this industry, with smaller companies being acquired by larger, established suppliers of network infrastructure products. We believe this trend is likely to continue.











As a result, we expect to face increased competition in the future from larger companies with significantly more resources than we have. Although we believe that our technology and the purpose-built features of our products make them unique and will enable us to compete effectively with these companies, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful.



Environment



We are subject to regulations that have been adopted with respect to environmental matters, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”), Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”), and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”) regulations adopted by the European Union. In addition, we participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”). CDP is a global standardized mechanism by which companies report their greenhouse gas emissions to institutional investors. It hosts one of the largest registries of corporate greenhouse gas data in the world at www.cdproject.net. We continue to invest in the infrastructure and systems required to be able to inventory and measure our carbon footprint on a global basis. We believe we have made significant strides in improving our energy efficiency around the world.



To date, compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted for the protection of the environment has had no material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.



In addition, we are committed to the environment by our effort in improving the energy efficiency of key elements in our high-performance network product offerings. For example, our T1600 router consumes substantially less energy than competitive products. The environment will remain a focus area across multiple aspects of our business.



Intellectual Property



Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology and expertise.



While we rely on patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark law to protect our technology, we also believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology.



In addition, we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. From time to time, we license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. There can be no assurance that third-party licenses will be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.



Our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain necessary intellectual property rights and protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued on the patent applications that we have filed, that we will be able to obtain the necessary intellectual property rights, or that other parties will not contest our intellectual property rights.



As of December 31, 2011, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 1,300 patents.  Patents generally have a term of twenty years from filing.  As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms on the individual patents vary.



Employees



As of December 31, 2011, we had9,129full-time employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, motivate, and retain qualified personnel. We believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.



Our future performance depends significantly upon the continued service of our key technical, sales, and senior management personnel, none of whom are bound by an employment agreement requiring service for any defined period of time. The loss of one or more of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, train, and retain highly qualified technical, sales, and managerial personnel. Competition for such key personnel is intense, and in order to attract and retain these









personnel, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and share-based compensation. Our share-based incentive awards include stock options, restricted stock units and performance share awards, some of which contain conditions relating to our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. If the anticipated value of such share-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, or if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel could be weakened. There can be no assurance that we can retain our key personnel in the future.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of the filing of this Annual Report on Form

10-K.



NameAgePositionKevin R. Johnson51Chief Executive OfficerPradeep Sindhu59Chief Technical Officer and Vice Chairman of the BoardMark Bauhaus50Executive Vice President of Services, Support and OperationsRobyn M. Denholm48Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerStefan Dyckerhoff39Executive Vice President and General Manager, Platform Systems GroupGerri Elliott56Executive Vice President and Chief Sales OfficerMitchell Gaynor52Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryRobert Muglia52Executive Vice President, Software Solutions DivisionGene Zamiska50Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller



KEVIN R. JOHNSONjoined Juniper in September 2008 as Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors. Prior to Juniper, Mr. Johnson was at Microsoft Corporation, a worldwide provider of software, services, and solutions, where he had served as President, Platforms and Services Division since January 2007. He had been Co-President of the Platforms and Services Division since September 2005. Prior to that role, he held the position of Microsoft's Group Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services since March 2003. Before that position, Mr. Johnson had been Senior Vice President, Microsoft Americas since February 2002 and Senior Vice President, U.S. Sales, Marketing, and Services since August 2000. Before joining Microsoft in 1992, Mr. Johnson worked in IBM's systems integration and consulting business and started his career as a software developer. Mr. Johnson also serves on the board of directors of Starbucks Corporation, a worldwide coffee retailer.



PRADEEP SINDHUfounded Juniper in February 1996 and served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors until September 1996. Since then, Dr. Sindhu has served as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Technical Officer of Juniper. From September 1984 to February 1991, Dr. Sindhu worked as a Member of the Research Staff, and from March 1987 to February 1996, as the Principal Scientist, and from February 1994 to February 1996, as Distinguished Engineer at the Computer Science Lab at Xerox Corporation, Palo Alto Research Center, a technology research center. Dr. Sindhu served as a member of the board of directors of Infinera Corporation, a provider of optical networking equipment, from September 2001 to May 2008.



MARK BAUHAUSjoined Juniper in September 2007 and currently serves as Executive Vice President of Services, Support and Operations Group. Before joining Juniper, Mr. Bauhaus established Bauhaus Productions Consulting, where he served as founder and principal until September 2007, after serving over 20 years at Sun Microsystems ("Sun") in a range of executive level assignments from December 1986 through December 2006, most recently in the position of Senior Vice President of Service-Oriented Architecture Software. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Java Web Services at Sun and Vice President and Founder of Global Dot.Com Consulting. Mr. Bauhaus began his career as an environmental engineer for HP. Mr. Bauhaus holds a bachelor's degree in business management and environmental systems analysis from the University of California at Davis.



ROBYN M. DENHOLMjoined Juniper in August 2007 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining









Juniper, Ms. Denholm was at Sun from January 1996 to August 2007, where she served in executive assignments that included Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategic Planning, Senior Vice President of Finance, Vice President and Corporate Controller (Chief Accounting Officer), Vice President of Finance, Director of Service Division, and Shared Financial Services APAC and Controller, Australia/New Zealand. Prior to joining Sun, Ms. Denholm served at Toyota Motor Corporation Australia for seven years and at Arthur Andersen & Company for five years in various finance assignments. Ms. Denholm is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Australia and holds a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Sydney and a master's degree in commerce from the University of New South Wales. Ms. Denholm also serves on the board of directors of Echelon Corporation, an international control networks company.



STEFAN DYCKERHOFFjoined Juniper in October 2009 and currently serves as our Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Platform Systems Group. Prior to re-joining Juniper, Mr. Dyckerhoff was at Cisco, from May 2004 to September 2009, serving as Vice President and General Manager of the Edge Routing Business Unit. From January 1997 to May 2004, Mr. Dyckerhoff was at Juniper serving in various engineering leadership roles. Mr. Dyckerhoff holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering and computer science from Duke University and a master's degree in electrical engineering from Stanford University.



GERRI ELLIOTTjoined Juniper in July 2009 and currently serves as our Executive Vice President and Chief Sales Officer.  Before joining Juniper, Ms. Elliott was at Microsoft, where she was Corporate Vice President, Worldwide Public Sector Organization from July 2004 to December 2008.  Prior to Microsoft, Ms. Elliott spent 22 years at IBM, where she held several senior executive positions in the U.S. and internationally. Ms. Elliott holds a bachelor's degree in international politics from New York University.

MITCHELL GAYNORjoined Juniper in February 2004 as Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary and served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from February 2008 to February 2011 and is currently our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Juniper, Mr. Gaynor was Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of Portal Software, Inc. and Sybase, Inc. In private practice, he was an associate with the law firm of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison. Mr. Gaynor holds a law degree from University of California's Hastings College of the Law and a bachelor's degree in history from the University of California, Berkeley.



ROBERT MUGLIAjoined Juniper in October 2011 as Executive Vice President, Software Solutions Division. Before joining Juniper,  Mr. Muglia was at Microsoft from January 1988 through September 2011, where he served in various leadership positions across all of Microsoft's business groups, including Developer, Office, Mobile Devices, Windows NT and Online Services. Most recently, Mr. Muglia served as President of Microsoft's Server and Tools Business (STB), where he was responsible for infrastructure software, developer tools and cloud platforms. Mr. Muglia holds a bachelor's degree in computer and communication science from the University of Michigan.

GENE ZAMISKAjoined Juniper in December 2007 as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller and in February 2009, was appointed Chief Accounting Officer of Juniper. Before joining Juniper, Mr. Zamiska was at HP from February 1989 through November 2007, where he served in various roles in the finance department, most recently serving as Senior Director of Finance - Controller for HP's consulting and integration division and HP's Senior Director of Finance - Assistant Corporate Controller. Prior to HP, Mr. Zamiska was at Arthur Andersen & Company where he served in various roles in the audit and assurance practice. Mr. Zamiska is a Certified Public Accountant (inactive) and holds a bachelor's degree in business-accounting from the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana.



Available Information



We file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) electronically. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Juniper Networks, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov.



You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on our website at http://www.juniper.net, by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices by calling 1-888-586-4737, or by sending an e-mail message to investor-relations@juniper.net. Such reports and other information are available on our website when they are available on the SEC website. Our Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Stock Committee, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available on our









website. Information on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





