ITEM 1.Business



Overview



We design, develop, and sell innovative products and services
    that together provide our customers with high-performance
    network infrastructure that creates responsive and trusted
    environments for accelerating the deployment of services and
    applications over a single network. We serve the
    high-performance networking requirements of global service
    providers, enterprises, and public sector organizations that
    view the network as critical to their success. We believe we are
    uniquely positioned in the networking industry based on our core
    competencies in architecture, silicon design, and our opencross-networksoftware platform that includes the
    Junos®operating system (“Junos OS”), Junos Space network
    application platform, and Junos Pulse integrated network client.
    We offer a broad product portfolio that spans routing,
    switching, security, application acceleration, identity policy
    and control, and management designed to provide performance,
    choice, and flexibility while reducing overall total cost of
    ownership. In addition, through strong industry partnerships, we
    are fostering innovation across the network.



Segment Information

Form 10-K,



During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, we
    generated net revenues of $3.32 billion and conducted
    business in more than 100 countries around the world. See
    Item 8 of Part II for more information on our
    consolidated financial position as of December 31, 2009,
    and 2008 and our consolidated statements of operations,
    consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity, and
    consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2009.



We were incorporated in California in 1996 and reincorporated in
    Delaware in 1998. Our corporate headquarters are located in
    Sunnyvale, California. Our website address is www.juniper.net.



Our
    Strategy



Our objective and strategy is to be the leading provider of
    high-performance network infrastructure by transforming the
    experience and economics of networking. Key elements of our
    strategy are described below.



Maintain
    and Extend Technology Leadership



Our Junos OS, application-specific integrated circuit
    (“ASIC”) technology, and network-optimized product
    architecture have been key elements to establishing and
    maintaining our technology leadership. We believe that these
    elements can be leveraged into future products that we are
    currently developing. We intend to maintain and extend our
    technological leadership in the service provider and enterprise
    markets primarily through innovation and continued investment in
    research and development (“R&D”), supplemented by
    external partnerships, including strategic alliances, that would
    allow us to deliver a broad range of products and services to
    customers in target markets.





Leverage
    Position as Supplier of High-Performance Network
    Infrastructure



From inception, we have focused on designing, developing, and
    building high-performance network infrastructure for demanding
    service provider and enterprise networking environments and have
    integrated purpose-built technology into a network-optimized
    architecture that specifically meets our customers’ needs.
    We believe that many of these customers will deploy networking
    equipment from only a few vendors. We believe that the
    performance, reliability, and security of our products provide
    us with a competitive advantage, which is critical in gaining
    selection as one of these vendors.



Be
    Strategic to Our Customers



In developing our Infrastructure and SLT solutions, we work very
    closely with customers to design and buildbest-in-classproducts and solutions specifically designed to meet their
    complex needs. Over time, we have expanded our understanding of
    the escalating demands and risks facing our customers. That
    increased understanding has enabled us subsequently to design
    additional capabilities into our products. We believe our close
    relationships with, and constant feedback from, our customers
    have been key elements in our design wins and rapid deployments
    to date. We plan to continue to workhand-in-handwith our customers to implement product enhancements as well as
    to design future products that meet the evolving needs of the
    marketplace, while enabling customers to reduce costs.



Enable
    NewIP-BasedServices



Our platforms enable network operators to quickly build and
    secure networks cost-effectively and deploy new differentiated
    services to drive new sources of revenue more efficiently than
    legacy network products. We believe that the secure delivery ofIP-basedservices and applications, web hosting, outsourced Internet and
    intranet services, outsourced enterprise applications, and
    voice-over IP, will continue to grow, and are cost-effectively
    enabled by our high-performance network infrastructure offerings.



Establish
    and Develop Industry Partnerships



Our customers have diverse requirements. While our products meet
    certain requirements of our customers, our products are not
    intended to satisfy certain other requirements. Therefore, we
    believe that it is important that we attract and build
    relationships with other industry leaders in a diverse set of
    technologies and services that extend the value of the network
    for our customers. These partnerships ensure that we have access
    to those technologies and services, whether through technology
    integration, joint development, resale, or other collaboration,
    in order to better support a broader set of our customers’
    requirements. In addition, we believe in an open network
    infrastructure that invites partner innovation and provides
    customers with greater choice and control in meeting their
    evolving business requirements, while enabling them to reduce
    costs.



Markets
    and Customers



We sell our high-performance network products and service
    offerings through direct sales and through distributors,
    value-added resellers, and original equipment manufacturer
    (“OEM”) partners to end-users in the following markets:



Service
    Providers



Service providers include wireline, wireless, and cable
    operators, as well as major Internet content and application
    providers. Supporting most major service provider networks in
    the world, our high-performance network infrastructure offerings
    are designed and built for the performance, reliability, and
    security that service providers demand. Our networking
    infrastructure offerings benefit these customers by:



•Reducing capital and operational costs by running multiple
    services over the same network using our high density, highly
    reliable platforms;•Promoting generation of additional revenues by enabling new
    services to be offered to new market segments based on our
    product capabilities;







•Increasing customer satisfaction, while lowering costs, by
    enabling consumers to self-select automatically provisioned
    service packages that provide the quality, speed, and pricing
    they desire; and•Providing increased asset longevity and higher return on
    investment as their networks can scale to multi-terabit rates
    based on the capabilities of our platforms.



While many of these service providers have historically been
    categorized separately as wireline, wireless, or cable
    operators, in recent years, we have seen a move towards
    convergence of these different types of service providers
    through acquisitions, mergers, and partnerships. We believe
    these strategic developments are made technically possible as
    operators invest in the build out of next generation networks
    capable of supporting voice, video, and data traffic on to the
    sameIP-basednetwork. This convergence relies onIP-basedtraffic processing and creates the opportunity for multi-service
    networks and offer service providers significant new revenue
    opportunities.



We believe that there are several other trends affecting service
    providers for which we are well positioned to deliver products
    and solutions. These trends include significant growth in IP
    traffic on service provider networks because ofpeer-to-peerinteraction, broadband usage, video, and an increasing reliance
    on the network as a mission critical business tool in the
    strategies of our IP customers and of their enterprise customers.



The IP infrastructure market for service providers includes:
    products and technology at the network core; the network edge to
    enable access; the aggregation layer; security to protect from
    the inside out and the outside in; the application awareness and
    intelligence to optimize the network to meet business and user
    needs; and the management, service awareness, and control of the
    entire infrastructure.



Enterprise



Our high-performance network infrastructure offerings are
    designed to meet the performance, reliability, and security
    requirements of the world’s most demanding businesses. For
    this reason, enterprises and public sector organizations such as
    governments and research and education institutions that view
    their networks as critical to their success are able to deploy
    our solutions as a powerful component in delivering the advanced
    network capabilities needed for their leading-edge applications
    while:



•Assisting in the consolidation and delivery of existing services
    and applications;•Accelerating the deployment of new services and applications;•Offering integrated security to assist in the protection and
    recovery of services and applications; and•Offering operational improvements that enable cost reductions,
    including lower administrative, training, customer care, and
    labor costs.



As with the service provider market, innovation continues to be
    a critical component in our strategy for the enterprise market.
    We believe that innovative enterprises view the network as
    critical to their success and therefore must build advanced
    network infrastructures that provide fast, reliable, and secure
    access to services and applications over a singleIP-basednetwork. These high-performance enterprises require networks
    that are global, distributed, and always available. Network
    equipment vendors need to demonstrate performance, reliability,
    and security to these customers in specific segments withbest-in-classopen solutions for maximum flexibility. We offer enterprise
    solutions and services for data centers, branch and campus
    applications, distributed and extended enterprises, and Wide
    Area Network (“WAN”) gateways.



As customers increasingly view the network as critical to their
    success, we believe that customers will increasingly demand
    fast, reliable, and secure access to services and applications
    over a singleIP-basednetwork. This is partly illustrated by the success of our SRX
    Services Gateways that consolidate switching, routing, and
    security services in a single device, Integrated Security
    Gateway (“ISG”) products that combine firewall/virtual
    private network (“VPN”) and intrusion detection and
    prevention (“IDP”) solutions in a single platform and
    Secure Services Gateway (“SSG”) platforms that provide
    a mix of high-performance security with Local Area Network
    (“LAN”)/WAN connectivity for regional and branch
    office deployments. We will continue to invest to develop these
    and other converged technologies and solutions.





Customers
    with Ten Percent of Net Revenues or Greater



AT&T, Inc., accounted for greater than 10% of our total net
    revenues in 2009. No single customer accounted for more than 10%
    of our total net revenues in 2008. Nokia-Siemens Networks B.V.
    (“NSN”) accounted for greater than 10% of our total
    net revenues in 2007.



Our
    Products and Technology



Early in our history, we developed, marketed, and sold the first
    commercially available purpose-built IP backbone router
    optimized for the specific high-performance requirements of
    service providers. As the need for core bandwidth continued to
    increase, the need for service rich platforms at the edge of the
    network was created. Our Infrastructure products are designed to
    address the needs at the core and the edge of the network as
    well as for wireless access by combining high-performance packet
    forwarding technology and robust operating systems into a
    network-optimized solution. In addition, as enterprises continue
    to develop and rely upon more sophisticated and pervasive
    internal networks, we believe the need for products with
    high-performance routing and switching technology is expanding
    to a broader set of customers, and we believe our expertise in
    this technology uniquely positions us to address this growing
    market opportunity.



Additionally, our SLT segment offers a broad family of network
    security solutions that deliver high-performance, cost-effective
    security for enterprises, service providers, and government
    entities, including integrated firewall and VPN solutions,
    secure sockets layer (“SSL”) VPN appliances, and IDP
    appliances. We also offer complementary products and
    technologies to enable our customers to provide additionalIP-basedservices and enhance the performance and security of their
    existing networks and applications.



The following is an overview of our major Infrastructure and SLT
    product families:



Infrastructure
    Products





•T-Series, TX, JCS, and M-Series:Our T-series
    core routers are primarily designed for core IP infrastructures
    and are also being sold into the multi-service environment. Our
    M-series routers are extremely versatile as they can be deployed
    at the edge of operator networks, in small and medium core
    networks, enterprise networks, and in other applications. The
    T-series and M-series products leverage our ASIC technology and
    the same Junos OS to enable consistent, continuous, reliable,
    and predictable service delivery. The TX and TX Plus products
    connect multiple T-series chassis to deliver multi-chassis scale
    in a single network node for world’s largest core routing
    applications. The JCS product reduces complexity and operating
    cost for our customers by virtualizing the network
    infrastructure to allow multiple independent network services to
    run on top of the same physical network infrastructure.



•E-Series:OurE-seriesproducts are a full featured platform designed for the network
    edge with support for carrier-class routing, broadband
    subscriber management services and a comprehensive set of IP
    services. Leveraging our JUNOSe operating system, theE-Seriesservice delivery architecture enables service providers to
    easily deploy innovative revenue-generating services to their
    customers. AllE-seriesplatforms offer a full suite of routing protocols and provide
    scalable capacity for tens of thousands of users.



•MX-Series:The MX-Series is a product family
    developed to address emerging Ethernet network architectures and
    services in service provider and enterprise networks. Using our
    Junos OS, the MX platforms provide the carrier-class
    performance, scale, and reliability to enable service providers
    and enterprises to support large-scale Ethernet deployments. The
    MX Series also leverages the recently announced Junos Trio
    chipset with “3D Scaling” technology to enable
    networks to scale dynamically for more bandwidth, subscribers,
    and services.



•EX-Series:Our EX-series family extends our
    product portfolio running our Junos OS to address the Ethernet
    switch market. Ethernet is a widely used technology used to
    transport information in enterprise networks. Our EX-series
    switches are designed to enable customers to cost effectively
    accelerate and simplify the way they install and manage business
    applications across their networks and enhance network
    operations without compromising performance.







SLT
    Products



•Services Gateway, Integrated Firewall, and VPN
    Solutions:Our firewall and VPN systems and
    appliances are designed to provide integrated firewall, VPN, and
    denial of service protection capabilities for both enterprise
    environments and service provider network infrastructures. These
    products range from our SSG products, which combine LAN/WAN
    routing capabilities with unified threat management features
    such as anti-virus, anti-spam, and web filtering technologies,
    to our ISG and NetScreen series firewall and VPN systems,
    which are designed to deliver high-performance security in
    medium/large enterprise and carrier networks and data centers.
    In addition, we recently introduced the SRX-series of dynamic
    services gateways. Running our Junos software, the SRX-series
    systems provide unrivaled firewall/VPN performance and
    scalability and combine routing, switching, and security
    functionality to meet the network and security requirements for
    data center consolidation, rapid managed services deployments,
    and aggregation of security services.



•SSL VPN Appliances:Our SSL VPN appliances are
    used to secure remote access for mobile employees, secure
    extranets for customers and partners, and secure intranets and
    are designed to be used in enterprise environments of all sizes.



•IDP Appliances:Our IDP appliances utilize
    advanced intrusion detection methods to increase the detection
    rate and prevent network attacks and also provide fast and
    efficient traffic processing and alarm collection, presentation,
    and forwarding. Once an attack is detected, our IDP appliances
    prevent the intrusion by dropping the packets or connection
    associated with the attack, reducing or eliminating the effects
    of the attack.



•Application Acceleration Platforms:Our WXC
    products improve the performance of client-server and
    web-enabled business applications for branch-office, remote, and
    mobile users. These application acceleration platforms enable
    our customers to deliver LAN-like performance to users around
    the globe who access centralized applications.•Identity and Policy Control Solutions:Our
    portfolio of identity and policy control solutions integrate
    subscriber privileges, application requirements, and business
    policies with the IP network infrastructure in order to improve
    the end-user experience, enhance security, and help reduce
    operational costs.



See Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in
    Part II of this Annual Report onForm 10-K,for an analysis of net product revenues by segment.



Junos
    Platform



In addition to our major product families, our extended software
    portfolio, known as Junos Platform, is a key technology element
    in our strategy to be the leader in high-performance networking.
    The Junos Platform includes the Junos Space network application
    platform and Junos Pulse integrated, multi-service network
    client, which have been built with the same core design
    principles, integration approach, and development discipline.
    The Junos Platform enables our customers to expand network
    software into the application space, deploy software clients to
    control delivery, and accelerate the pace of innovation with an
    ecosystem of developers.



At the heart of the Junos Platform is Junos OS. We believe Junos
    OS is fundamentally superior to other network operating systems
    in not only its design, but also in its development. The
    advantages of Junos OS include:



•One modular operating system with single source base of code and
    a single, consistent implementation for each control plane
    feature;•One software release train extended through a highly disciplined
    and firmly scheduled development process; and•One common modular software architecture that scales across all
    Junos-based platforms.



Junos OS is designed to maintain continuous systems and improve
    the availability, performance, and security of business
    applications running across the network. Junos OS helps to
    automate network operations by providing a single consistent
    implementation of features across the network in a single
    release train that seeks to minimize the complexity, cost, and
    risk associated with implementing network features and upgrades.
    This operational efficiency allows network administrators more
    time to innovate and deliver new revenue-generating
    applications, helping to advance the economics of
    high-performance networking.





The security and stability of Junos OS, combined with its
    modular architecture and single source code base, provides a
    foundation for delivering performance, reliability, security,
    and scale at a lower total cost of ownership than multiple
    operating code base environments. With an increasing number of
    our platforms able to leverage Junos OS, including routing,
    switching, and security products, we believe Junos OS provides
    us a competitive advantage over other major network equipment
    vendors.



Major
    Product Development Projects



In 2009, we announced two significant product development
    efforts: Project Stratus and Project Falcon. Project Stratus is
    our initiative to develop a single data center fabric designed
    to significantly advance scale, performance and simplicity,
    while lowering energy consumption and reducing overall operating
    costs compared to currently existing data center solutions.
    Project Falcon is an effort to develop mobility solutions for
    service provider customers based on our MX 3D
    Series Universal Edge Routers and the Junos software
    platform.



Customer
    Service and Support



In addition to our Infrastructure and SLT products, we offer the
    following services: 24x7x365 technical assistance, hardware
    repair and replacement parts, unspecified software updates on awhen-and-if-availablebasis, professional services, and educational services. We
    deliver these services directly to end-users and utilize a
    multi-tiered support model, leveraging the capabilities of our
    partners and third-party organizations, as appropriate.



We also train our channel partners in the delivery of education
    and support services to ensure locally delivered training.



As of December 31, 2009, we employed 891 people in our
    worldwide customer service and support organization. We believe
    that a broad range of support services is essential to the
    successful customer deployment and ongoing support of our
    products, and we have hired support engineers with proven
    network experience to provide those services.



Manufacturing
    and Operations



As of December 31, 2009, we employed 244 people in
    manufacturing and operations who primarily manage relationships
    with our contract manufacturers, manage our supply chain, and
    monitor and manage product testing and quality.



We have manufacturing relationships primarily with Celestica,
    Flextronics, and Plexus, under which we have subcontracted the
    majority of our manufacturing activity. Our manufacturing
    activity is primarily conducted in China, Malaysia, Mexico, and
    the United States.



This subcontracting activity in all locations extends from
    prototypes to full production and includes activities such as
    material procurement, final assembly, test, control, shipment to
    our customers, and repairs. Together with our contract
    manufacturers, we design, specify, and monitor the tests that
    are required to meet internal and external quality standards.
    These arrangements provide us with the following benefits:



•We can quickly deliver products to customers with turnkey
    manufacturing and drop-shipment capabilities;•We gain economies of scale because, by purchasing large
    quantities of common components, our contract manufacturers
    obtain more favorable pricing than if we were buying components
    alone;•We operate without dedicating significant space to manufacturing
    operations; and•We can reduce our costs by reducing fixed overhead expenses.



Our contract manufacturers manufacture our products based on our
    rolling product demand forecasts. Each of the contract
    manufacturers procures components necessary to assemble the
    products in our forecast and tests the products according to our
    specifications. Products are then shipped to our distributors,
    value-added resellers, or end-users. Generally, we do not own
    the components, and title to the products transfers from the
    contract manufacturers to us and immediately to our customers
    upon delivery at a designated shipment location. If the
    components remain unused or the products remain unsold for
    specified period, we may incur carrying charges or obsolete
    material





charges for components that our contract manufacturers purchased
    to build products to meet our forecast or customer orders.



Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers,
    those contracts merely set forth a framework within which the
    contract manufacturer may accept purchase orders from us. The
    contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a
    long-term basis.



Our ASICs are manufactured primarily by sole or limited sources,
    such as International Business Machines (“IBM”)
    Corporation each of which is responsible for all aspects of the
    production of the ASICs using our proprietary designs.



We have five core values: trust, respect, humility, integrity,
    and excellence. These values are integral to how we manage our
    company and interact with our employees, customers, partners,
    and suppliers. By working collaboratively with our suppliers, we
    also have the opportunity to promote socially responsible
    business practices beyond our company and into our worldwide
    supply chain. To this end, we have adopted, and promote the
    adoption by others, of the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct
    (“EICC”). The EICC outlines standards to ensure that
    working conditions in the electronics industry supply chain are
    safe, that workers are treated with respect and dignity, and
    that manufacturing processes are environmentally responsible.



Research
    and Development



As of December 31, 2009, we employed 3,308 people in
    our worldwide R&D organization. We have assembled a team of
    skilled engineers with extensive experience in the fields of
    high-end computing, network system design, ASIC design,
    security, routing protocols, and embedded operating systems.
    These individuals have worked in leading computer data
    networking and telecommunication companies.



We believe that strong product development capabilities are
    essential to our strategy of enhancing our core technology,
    developing additional applications, incorporating that
    technology, and maintaining the competitiveness of our product
    and service offerings. In our Infrastructure and SLT products,
    we are leveraging our software and ASIC technology, developing
    additional network interfaces targeted to our customers’
    applications, and continuing to develop technology to support
    the anticipated growth in IP network requirements. We continue
    to expand the functionality of our products to improve
    performance reliability and scalability, and to provide an
    enhanced user interface.



Our R&D process is driven by the availability of new
    technology, market demand, and customer feedback. We have
    invested significant time and resources in creating a structured
    process for all product development projects. Following an
    assessment of market demand, our R&D team develops a full
    set of comprehensive functional product specifications based on
    inputs from the product management and sales organizations. This
    process is designed to provide a framework for defining and
    addressing the steps, tasks, and activities required to bring
    product concepts and development projects to market.



Sales and
    Marketing



As of December 31, 2009, we employed 2,101 people in
    our worldwide sales and marketing organization. These sales and
    marketing employees operate in different locations around the
    world in support of our customers.



Our sales organization is generally split between service
    provider and enterprise customers, with each separate team
    ensuring focus on key customers in these respective markets.
    From a geographic perspective, the organization is grouped into
    three geographic regions, which are: (i) the Americas
    (including United States, Canada, Mexico, Central and South
    America), (ii) Europe, Middle East, and Africa
    (“EMEA”) and (iii) Asia Pacific
    (“APAC”). Within each region, there are regional and
    country teams, as well as major account teams, to ensure we
    operate close to our customers.  There is a structure of sales
    professionals, system engineers, and marketing and channel teams
    each focused on the respective service provider and enterprise
    markets.





See Note 11,Segment Information, in Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II
    of this Annual Report onForm 10-K,for information concerning our revenues by geographic regions
    and by significant customers, which is incorporated herein by
    reference. Our operations subject us to certain risks and
    uncertainties associated with international operations. See
    Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors,” for more
    information.



Our sales teams operate in their respective regions and
    generally either engage customers directly or manage customer
    opportunities through our distribution and reseller
    relationships or channels as described below.



In the United States and Canada, we sell to several service
    providers directly and sell to other service providers and
    enterprise customers primarily through distributors and
    resellers. Almost all of our sales outside the United States and
    Canada are made through our channel partners.



Direct
    Sales Structure



Where we have a direct relationship with our customers, the
    terms and conditions are governed either by customer purchase
    orders and our acknowledgement of those orders or by purchase
    contracts. In instances where we have direct contracts with our
    customers, those contracts set forth only general terms of sale
    and do not require customers to purchase specified quantities of
    our products. For this type of customer, our sales team engages
    directly with the customer. We directly receive and process
    customer purchase orders.



Channel
    Sales Structure



A critical part of our sales and marketing efforts are our
    channel partners through which we do the majority of our
    business. We employ various channel partners, including but not
    limited to:





•A global network of strategic distribution relationships, as
    well as region or country-specific distributors who in turn sell
    to local value-added resellers who sell to end-user customers.
    The distribution channel partners mainly sell our SLT products
    plus certain Infrastructure products that are often purchased by
    our enterprise customers. These distributors tend to be focused
    on particular regions or particular countries within regions.
    For example, we have substantial distribution relationships with
    Ingram Micro in the Americas and with NEC in Japan. Our
    agreements with these distributors are generally non-exclusive,
    limited by region, and provide product discounts and other
    ordinary terms of sale. These agreements do not require our
    distributors to purchase specified quantities of our products.



•Direct value-added resellers including our strategic resellers
    referenced below, which resell our products to end-users around
    the world. These direct value-added resellers buy the products
    and services directly from us and have expertise in deploying
    complex networking solutions in their respective markets. Our
    agreements with these direct value-added resellers are generally
    non-exclusive, limited by region, and provide product discounts
    and other ordinary terms of sale. These agreements do not
    require our direct value-added resellers to purchase specified
    quantities of our products.



•Strategic worldwide reseller relationships with NSN, Ericsson
    Telecom A.B. (“Ericsson”), and IBM. These companies
    each offer services and products that complement, but in some
    cases compete with, our own product offerings and act as a
    fulfillment partner for our products. Our arrangements with
    these partners allow them to resell our products on a worldwide,
    non-exclusive basis, provide for product discounts, and specify
    other general terms of sale. These agreements do not require
    these partners to purchase specified quantities of our products.



•OEM relationships with Dell Corporation and IBM. Our OEM
    arrangements with these partners allow them to rebrand and
    resell certain of our product lines on a worldwide,
    non-exclusive basis, provide for product discounts, and specify
    other general terms of sale. These agreements do not require
    these partners to purchase specified quantities of our products.



Within each region, we employ sales professionals to assist with
    the management of our various sales channels. In addition, we
    have a “direct touch” sales team that works directly
    with the channel partners on key accounts in order to maintain a
    direct relationship with our more strategic end-user customers
    while at the same time supporting the ultimate fulfillment of
    product through our channel partners.





Backlog



Our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders under
    framework agreements with our customers. At any given time, we
    have backlog orders for products that have not been shipped.
    Because customers may cancel purchase orders or change delivery
    schedules without significant penalty, we believe that our
    backlog at any given date may not be a reliable indicator of
    future operating results. As of December 31, 2009, and
    2008, our total backlog orders was approximately
    $270 million and $250 million, respectively. Our
    backlog consists of confirmed orders for products scheduled to
    be shipped to customers generally within six months. Our backlog
    excludes orders from distributors as we recognize product
    revenue on sales made through distributors upon sell-through to
    end-users.



Seasonality



Many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal
    fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the
    first and third quarters. In addition, our SLT segment has
    experienced seasonally strong customer demand in the fourth
    quarter. This historical pattern should not be considered a
    reliable indicator of our future net revenues or financial
    performance.



Competition



Infrastructure
    Business



In the network infrastructure business, Cisco Systems has
    historically been the dominant player in the market. However,
    other companies such as Alcatel-Lucent, Brocade Communications
    Systems, Inc., Ericsson, Extreme Networks, Inc., Hewlett Packard
    Company, and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. are providing
    competitive products in the marketplace.



Many of our current and potential competitors, such as Cisco,
    Alcatel-Lucent, and Huawei have significantly broader product
    lines than we do and may bundle their products with other
    networking products in a manner that may discourage customers
    from purchasing our products. In addition, consolidation among
    competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and resellers by
    competitors, can increase the competitive pressure faced by us.
    For example, in 2007, Ericsson acquired Redback Networks, and in
    2009, Brocade acquired Foundry Networks. In addition, many of
    our current and potential competitors have greater name
    recognition and more extensive customer bases that could be
    leveraged. Increased competition could result in price
    reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and
    loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our
    operating results.



SLT
    Business



In the market for SLT products, Cisco generally is our primary
    competitor with its broad range of products. In addition, there
    are a number of other competitors for each of the product lines
    within SLT, including Checkpoint Software Technologies,
    Fortinet, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., and Riverbed Technology, Inc.
    These additional competitors tend to be focused on single
    product line solutions and, therefore, are generally specialized
    as competitors to our products. In addition, a number of public
    and private companies have announced plans for new products to
    address the same needs that our products address. We believe
    that our ability to compete with Cisco and others depends upon
    our ability to demonstrate that our products are superior in
    meeting the needs of our current and potential customers.



For both product groups, we expect that, over time, large
    companies with significant resources, technical expertise,
    market experience, customer relationships, and broad product
    lines, such as Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, and Huawei, will introduce
    new products, which are designed to compete more effectively in
    the market. There are also several other companies that claim to
    have products with greater capabilities than our products.
    Consolidation in this industry has begun, with one or more of
    these companies being acquired by large, established suppliers
    of network infrastructure products, and we believe it is likely
    to continue.



As a result, we expect to face increased competition in the
    future from larger companies with significantly more resources
    than we have. Although we believe that our technology and the
    purpose-built features of our





products make them unique and will enable us to compete
    effectively with these companies, we cannot guarantee that we
    will be successful.



Environment



We are subject to regulations that have been adopted with
    respect to environmental matters, such as the Waste Electrical
    and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”), Restriction of the
    Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic
    Equipment (“RoHS”), and Registration, Evaluation,
    Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (“Reach”)
    regulations adopted by the European Union. In addition, we
    participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”).
    CDP is a global standardized mechanism by which companies report
    their greenhouse gas emissions to institutional investors. It
    hosts one of the largest registries of corporate greenhouse gas
    data in the world at www.cdproject.net. We continue to invest in
    the infrastructure and systems required to be able to inventory
    and measure our carbon footprint on a global basis. We believe
    we have made significant strides in improving our energy
    efficiency around the world.



Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted
    for the protection of the environment has to date had no
    material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or
    competitive position.



In addition, we are committed to the environment by our effort
    in improving the energy efficiency of key elements of our
    high-performance network product offerings. For example, our
    T1600 router consumes substantially less energy than competitive
    products. The environment will remain a focus area across
    multiple aspects of our business.



Intellectual
    Property



Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent
    upon our internally developed technology and expertise.



While we rely on patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark
    law to protect our technology, we also believe that factors such
    as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new
    product developments, frequent product enhancements, and
    reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and
    maintaining a technology leadership position. There can be no
    assurance that others will not develop technologies that are
    similar or superior to our technology.



In addition, we integrate licensed third-party technology into
    certain of our products. From time to time, we license
    additional technology from third parties to develop new products
    or product enhancements. There can be no assurance that
    third-party licenses will be available or continue to be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Our inability
    to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in
    our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses
    necessary to develop new products and product enhancements could
    require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or
    performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could
    harm our business, financial condition, and results of
    operations.



Our success will depend upon our ability to obtain necessary
    intellectual property rights and protect our intellectual
    property rights. We cannot be certain that patents will be
    issued on the patent applications that we have filed, or that we
    will be able to obtain the necessary intellectual property
    rights or that other parties will not contest our intellectual
    property rights.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had 7,231 full-time
    employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we
    consider our relations with our employees to be good.
    Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense.
    We believe that our future success depends in part on our
    continued ability to hire, motivate, and retain qualified
    personnel. We believe that we have been successful in recruiting
    qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will
    continue to be successful in the future.



Our future performance depends in significant part upon the
    continued service of our key technical, sales, and senior
    management personnel, none of whom is bound by an employment
    agreement requiring service for any





defined period of time. The loss of the services of one or more
    of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our
    future success also depends on our continuing ability to
    attract, train, and retain highly qualified technical, sales,
    and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is
    intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our
    key personnel in the future.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following sets forth certain information regarding our
    executive officers as of the filing of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



NameAgePositionKevin R. Johnson49Chief Executive OfficerPradeep Sindhu57Chief Technical Officer and Vice Chairman of the BoardMark Bauhaus48Executive Vice President and General Manager, Service Layer
    Technology Business GroupRobyn M. Denholm46Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerStefan Dyckerhoff37Executive Vice President and General Manager, Infrastructure
    Products GroupMitchell Gaynor50Senior Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryJohn Morris49Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and ServicesMichael J. Rose57Executive Vice President of Service, Support and OperationsGene Zamiska48Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller





KEVIN R. JOHNSONjoined Juniper Networks in September
    2008 as Chief Executive Officer. Prior to Juniper Networks,
    Mr. Johnson was at Microsoft Corporation, a worldwide
    provider of software, services, and solutions, where he had
    served as President, Platforms and Services Division since
    January 2007. He had been Co-President of the Platforms and
    Services Division since September 2005. Prior to that role, he
    held the position of Microsoft’s Group Vice President,
    Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services since March 2003. Before
    that position, Mr. Johnson had been Senior Vice President,
    Microsoft Americas since February 2002 and Senior Vice
    President, U.S. Sales, Marketing, and Services since August
    2000. Before joining Microsoft in September 1992,
    Mr. Johnson worked in IBM’s systems integration and
    consulting business and started his career as a software
    developer. He earned a Bachelor’s degree in business
    administration from New Mexico State University and served as a
    founding member of the Board of Directors of NPower, a nonprofit
    organization whose mission is to help other nonprofits use
    technology to expand the reach and impact of their work.
    Mr. Johnson also served as a member of the Western Region
    Board of Advisors of Catalyst, a non-profit organization
    dedicated to women’s career advancement.



PRADEEP SINDHUfounded Juniper Networks in February 1996
    and served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board
    of Directors until September 1996. Since then, Dr. Sindhu
    has served as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
    Technical Officer of Juniper Networks. From September 1984 to
    February 1991, Dr. Sindhu worked as a Member of the
    Research Staff, and from March 1987 to February 1996, as the
    Principal Scientist, and from February 1994 to February 1996, as
    Distinguished Engineer at the Computer Science Lab, Xerox
    Corporation, Palo Alto Research Center, a technology research
    center. Dr. Sindhu holds a B.S.E.E. from the Indian
    Institute of Technology in Kanpur, an M.S.E.E. from the
    University of Hawaii, and a Masters in Computer Science and
    Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie-Mellon University.



MARK BAUHAUSjoined Juniper Networks in September 2007 as
    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Service Layer
    Technology Business Group. From January 2007 to September 2007,
    Mr. Bauhaus served as founder and principal of Bauhaus
    Productions Consulting. From December 1986 to December 2006,
    Mr. Bauhaus served at Sun Microsystems in a range of
    executive level assignments, most recently in the position of
    Senior Vice





President, Service Oriented Architecture Software.
    Mr. Bauhaus holds a Bachelors degree in business management
    and environmental systems analysis from the University of
    California at Davis.



ROBYN M. DENHOLMjoined Juniper Networks in August 2007
    as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From
    January 1996 to August 2007, Ms. Denholm was at Sun
    Microsystems where she served in executive assignments that
    included Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning;
    Senior Vice President, Finance; Vice President and Corporate
    Controller (Chief Accounting Officer); Vice President, Finance;
    Service Division; Director, Shared Financial Services APAC; and
    Controller, Australia/New Zealand. From May 1989 to January
    1996, Ms. Denholm served at Toyota Motor Corporation
    Australia and from December 1984 to May 1989, Ms. Denholm
    served at Arthur Andersen and Company in various finance
    assignments. Ms. Denholm is a Fellow of the Institute of
    Chartered Accountants of Australia and holds a Bachelors Degree
    in Economics from the University of Sydney and a Masters of
    Commerce from the University of New South Wales.



STEFAN DYCKERHOFFjoined Juniper Networks in October 2009
    and serves as our Executive Vice President and General Manager,
    Infrastructure Products Group. From May 2004 to September 2009,
    Mr. Dyckerhoff was at Cisco Systems serving as Vice
    President and General Manager of the Edge Routing Business Unit.
    From January 1997 to May 2004, Mr. Dyckerhoff was at
    Juniper Networks serving in various roles in the engineering
    organization. Mr. Dyckerhoff holds a Bachelors degree in
    Electrical Engineering from Duke University and a Masters degree
    in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.



MITCHELL GAYNORis Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel, and Secretary and joined Juniper Networks in February
    2004. Between April 1999 and February 2004, Mr. Gaynor was
    Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Portal
    Software, Inc. He also served as Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Sybase, Inc., from 1997 to 1999 and served in
    various other legal roles in Sybase between 1993 and 1997.
    Mr. Gaynor was Assistant General Counsel of ComputerLand
    Corporation, a computer equipment reseller, during 1989 and
    1990. From 1984 to 1989 and from 1990 to 1993, Mr. Gaynor
    was an associate with the law firm of Brobeck,
    Phleger & Harrison. Mr. Gaynor holds a J.D. from
    U.C. Hastings College of the Law and a B.A. in History from the
    University of California, Berkeley.



JOHN MORRISjoined Juniper Networks in July 2008 as
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations. From 2005
    to 2008, Mr. Morris served as President and Chief Operating
    Officer of Pay By Touch, a biometric payment technology company.
    Prior to Pay By Touch, Mr. Morris spent 23 years at
    IBM Corporation, where he served in a range of executive
    assignments, most recently as Vice President and General Manager
    of the Distribution Sector in the Americas region.
    Mr. Morris also served on IBM’s Global Marketing
    Council, as well as extensive experience in the Asian theater,
    including serving as Vice President and General Manager of the
    distribution sector for Asia Pacific, based in Tokyo, Japan.
    Mr. Morris holds a degree in Finance from Indiana
    University Bloomington.



MICHAEL J. ROSEjoined Juniper Networks in November 2008
    as Executive Vice President of Service, Support and Operations.
    From December 2005 to November 2008, Mr. Rose was an
    independent business consultant. From September 2001 to December
    2005, Mr. Rose served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Information Officer of Royal Dutch Shell plc. Prior to Royal
    Dutch Shell, Mr. Rose worked for 23 years in a wide
    range of positions at Hewlett Packard Company, including
    controller for various business groups. In 1997, he was named
    Hewlett Packard’s Chief Information Officer, and in 2000,
    he was elected an officer by the Board of Directors of Hewlett
    Packard. He was named the company’s Controller in 2001.
    Rose holds a Bachelor’s degree in economics from the State
    University of New York at Geneseo, N.Y.



GENE ZAMISKAjoined Juniper Networks in December 2007 as
    Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. In February
    2009, Mr. Zamiska was appointed as Chief Accounting Officer
    of Juniper Networks. From February 1989 through November 2007,
    Mr. Zamiska served in various roles in the finance
    department of Hewlett Packard Company, a provider of technology
    hardware, software, and services, most recently serving as
    Senior Director of Finance for Hewlett Packard’s consulting
    and integration division and Senior Director of Finance and
    Assistant Corporate Controller. Mr. Zamiska is a Certified
    Public Accountant and holds a BS in Business-Accounting from the
    University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana.





Available
    Information



We file our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,and current reports onForm 8-Kpursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the U.S. Securities
    and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) electronically.
    The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC
    at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
    obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
    by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and
    information statements, and other information regarding issuers,
    including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.
    The address of that website ishttp://www.sec.gov.



You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,and current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports on our website athttp://www.juniper.net,by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate
    offices by calling 1-888-586-4737, or by sending ane-mailmessage to investor-relations@juniper.net. Such reports and
    other information are available on our website when they are
    available on the SEC website. Our Corporate Governance
    Standards, the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation
    Committee, Stock Committee and Nominating and Corporate
    Governance Committee, as well as our Worldwide Code of Business
    Conduct and Ethics are also available on our website.
    Information on our website is not a part of this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.



