
10-K
VIACOM INC.



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
                                        
                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                        
 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994  COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9553

                                   VIACOM INC.
             (Exact Name Of Registrant As Specified In Its Charter)

                Delaware                                04-2949533
    (State Or Other Jurisdiction Of                  (I.R.S. Employer
    Incorporation Or Organization)                   Identification No.)

    1515 Broadway, New York, NY                           10036
    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)            (ZIP CODE)

    Registrant's telephone number, including area code  (212)258-6000

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(B) of the Act:

 Title Of Each Class                  Name Of Each Exchange On Which Registered

Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value               American Stock Exchange
Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value               American Stock Exchange
Warrants Expiring on July 7, 1997                   American Stock Exchange
Warrants Expiring on July 7, 1999                   American Stock Exchange
Contingent Value Rights                             American Stock Exchange
Variable Common Rights                              American Stock Exchange
8% Exchangeable Subordinated Debentures due 2006    American Stock Exchange
6.625% Senior Notes due 1998                        New York Stock Exchange
                                        
           Securities Registered Pursuant To Section 12(G) of the Act:
                                      None
                                (Title Of Class)
                                        
   Indicate by check mark whether registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant 
was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes X  No

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to 
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K. /X/

   As of March 27, 1995, 74,684,715 shares of Viacom Inc. Class A Common Stock,
$0.01 par value ("Class A Common Stock"), and 284,965,503 shares of Viacom Inc.
Class B Common Stock, $0.01 par value ("Class B Common Stock"), were 
outstanding.  The aggregate market value of the shares of Class A Common Stock 
(based upon the closing price of $45.50 per share as reported by the American 
Stock Exchange on that date) held by non-affiliates was approximately 
$1,273,335,609 and the aggregate market value of the shares of the Class B
Common Stock (based upon the closing price of $44.875 per share as reported 
by the American Stock Exchange on that date) held by non-affiliates was 
approximately $10,300,917,362.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
The Definitive Proxy of the Registrant for the 1995 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (Part III to the extent described herein).


                                     Part I

Item 1.  Business.

Background

           Viacom Inc. (together with its subsidiaries and divisions, unless the
context  otherwise  requires, the "Company") is a diversified entertainment  and
publishing   company  with  operations  in  five  segments:  (i)  Networks   and
Broadcasting,  (ii)  Entertainment,  (iii) Video  and  Music/Theme  Parks,  (iv)
Publishing,  and  (v) Cable Television.  Through the Networks  and  Broadcasting
segment, the Company  operates  MTV:   MUSIC   TELEVISION (R), SHOWTIME (R),
NICKELODEON(R)/NICK  AT NITE (R) and VH1 MUSIC FIRST (TM), among other program  
services, and 12 broadcast television and 12 radio stations.  Through the  
Entertainment segment, which includes PARAMOUNT PICTURES (TM) and the Company's 
approximately  77%- owned  subsidiary  Spelling Entertainment Group Inc., the 
Company  produces  and distributes theatrical motion pictures and television 
programming.  Through  the Video  and Music/Theme Parks segment, which includes 
the BLOCKBUSTER(R) family  of businesses and PARAMOUNT PARKS (TM), the Company
is the leading  worldwide  owner, operator  and franchisor of videocassette 
rental and sales stores and a  leading owner  and  operator of music stores in 
the U.S.  In addition,  PARAMOUNT  PARKS owns and operates five theme parks 
located in the U.S. and Canada.  Through  the Publishing  segment, which 
includes SIMON & SCHUSTER(R), MACMILLAN PUBLISHING USA(TM) and PRENTICE HALL(R),
the Company publishes and distributes educational, consumer, business,  
technical and professional books, and audio-video software  products.
Through  the  Cable  Television segment, the Company operates  cable  television
systems serving approximately 1.1 million customers.

           The  Company  was organized in Delaware in 1986 for  the  purpose  of
acquiring  Viacom  International Inc. ("Viacom International").   On  March  11,
1994,  the  Company  acquired  a  majority of outstanding  shares  of  Paramount
Communications  Inc. ("Paramount Communications") by tender offer;  on  July  7,
1994,  Paramount Communications became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,
and,  on  January  3,  1995, Paramount Communications  was  merged  into  Viacom
International.   On  September 29, 1994, Blockbuster  Entertainment  Corporation
merged  with  and into the Company (the "Blockbuster Merger").  On  January  20,
1995,  the  Company agreed to sell its cable television systems to a partnership
of which Mitgo Corp., a company wholly owned by Frank Washington, is the general
partner,   for  approximately  $2.3  billion,  subject  to  certain  conditions,
including   receipt  of  a  tax  certificate  from  the  Federal  Communications
Commission  ("FCC") and the availability of certain federal tax consequences  of
the sale advantageous to the Company.  The U.S. House of Representatives and the
U.S.  Senate  have  each  approved a similar version of legislation  that  would
eliminate   such  tax  consequences.  The  House  of  Representatives  has  also
approved a compromise version of the bill, which is  awaiting  Senate  approval.
The Company has announced that it will not proceed with the  agreed  transaction
in the event that  such  tax  consequences  are  unavailable. (see  "Business --
Regulation"). The Company has  also  announced  that  it  is  considering  other
options with respect to the disposition of its cable systems and that it intends
to proceed with such disposition.  On March 10, 1995, the Company  sold  Madison
Square Garden Corporation for closing proceeds of approximately $1.009  billion,
representing  the  sale  price  of  approximately  $1.075   billion,   less   an
approximately  $66  million  working  capital  adjustment.   The  net  after-tax
proceeds of the sale were used to repay indebtedness.

          As of March 1, 1995, National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"), a closely held
corporation that owns and operates more than 900 movie screens in the  U.S.  and
the  U.K., owned approximately 61% of the Company's voting Class A Common  Stock
("Class  A  Common  Stock"), and approximately 26% of the Company's  outstanding
Class  A  Common  Stock  and non-voting Class B Common Stock  ("Class  B  Common
Stock")  on  a  combined basis.  NAI is not subject to the informational  filing
requirements  of  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as  amended.   Sumner  M.
Redstone,  the controlling shareholder of NAI, is the Chairman of the  Board  of
the Company.

           The  Company's  principal offices are located at 1515  Broadway,  New
York,  New  York  10036  (telephone 212/258-6000).  At December  31,  1994,  the
Company  and its affiliated companies employed approximately 70,000  people,  of
which approximately 30,700 were full-time salaried employees.

                                     I-1



Business

Networks and Broadcasting

           Networks.   The  Company, through MTV Networks ("MTVN"), operates 
three advertiser-supported  basic cable television program services  in  the  
U.S.:  MTV: MUSIC  TELEVISION(R) ("MTV") (including the U.S feed of MTV 
LATINO(TM)), VH1 MUSIC  FIRST(TM) ("VH1")  and  NICKELODEON(R)/NICK AT 
NITE(R). The Company also operates three  premium subscription  services  in  
the  U.S.:  SHOWTIME(R), THE MOVIE CHANNEL(TM) and FLIX(TM). Additionally, the 
Company participates as a  joint  venture  partner  in  four additional  
advertiser-supported basic cable program services in the U.S.: USA NETWORK(TM) 
and the SCI-FI CHANNEL(TM) (both of which are operated by USA Networks), COMEDY
CENTRAL(TM), and ALL NEWS CHANNEL(TM).  Internationally, the Company owns and 
operates  MTV EUROPE(TM), MTV LATINO(TM), VH-1(TM) in the U.K. and VH-1(TM) in 
Germany, and participates  as  a joint venture partner in NICKELODEON U.K.  
The Company plans to launch MTV ASIA(TM)  in the   second  quarter  of  1995,  
NICKELODEON  AUSTRALIA(TM),  a premium subscription television service, also in 
1995, and VH-1(TM) in Latin America in 1996.  The  Company has also entered into
a joint venture agreement for the development and launch  of MTV  SOUTH  
AFRICA(TM) in 1996, and has entered into a joint venture with  Ravensburger 
Film  &  TV  GmbH, which has received a license to launch NICKELODEON(TM) in  
Germany.
The Company also packages satellite-delivered program services for distribution
to home satellite dish owners in the U.S. through SHOWTIME SATELLITE 
NETWORKS(TM).

           MTV  Networks.  Each of MTV, MTV EUROPE, MTV LATINO, 
NICKELODEON/NICK AT  NITE and VH1 (including VH-1 in the U.K.) is a 
24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a- week  program  service  transmitted  via 
satellite  for  distribution  by  cable television operators and other 
distributors.

           MTV  targets  young adult viewers from the ages  of  12  to  34  with
programming  that  consists primarily of music videos and  concerts,  music  and
general  lifestyle  information,  comedy and  dramatic  series,  news  specials,
interviews,  documentaries and other youth-oriented programming.   Additionally,
international MTV program services are regionally customized to suit  the local
tastes   of  their  young  adult  viewers  by  the  inclusion  of  local  music,
programming, language content and on-air personalities.

           MTV  has expanded its business opportunities based on its programming
to  include,  among other enterprises, an MTV line of home videos,  merchandise,
interactive  products and books, and electronic retailing  programs.   MTV  also
pursues broadcast network and first-run syndication television opportunities and
motion picture development and production through its MTV Productions operation.

           MTV  was  licensed  to  approximately  54.2  million  domestic  cable
subscribers  at December 31, 1994 (based on subscriber counts provided  by  each
cable system).  According to the December 1994 sample reports issued by the A.C.
Nielsen  Company (the "Nielsen Report"), MTV reached approximately 58.7  million
domestic subscriber households.

           MTV  EUROPE is designed to communicate with Europe's youth  in  their
language  by  providing a high percentage of European-sourced youth programming,
including music videos, and focusing on fashion, movies, news, trends and social
issues.   MTV EUROPE is distributed via cable systems, direct-to-home  satellite
transmission  and  terrestrial  re-broadcast of the  satellite  transmission  in
Europe  and  certain countries in the former Soviet Union and the  Middle  East.
According  to  Pan  European Television Audience Research,  MTV  EUROPE  reached
approximately 59.1 million subscribers at December 31, 1994.

           MTV  LATINO, launched in October 1993, reaches subscribers to  cable,
multichannel,  multidistribution systems ("MMDS") and satellite  master  antenna
television   systems   ("SMATV")  and  direct-to-home   satellite   viewers   in
approximately  20  countries in Latin America and in the U.S.   MTV  LATINO  was
distributed to approximately 4.8 million subscribers at December 31, 1994 (based
on subscriber counts provided by each distributor of the service).

           MTV  ASIA, which is expected to launch in the second quarter of 1995,
will  reach subscribers throughout Asia via cable, terrestrial MMDS,  SMATV  and
direct-to-home  satellite  dishes.   MTV  ASIA  will  consist  of  two  separate
satellite feeds, one primarily in Mandarin, the other primarily in English.

                                     I-2


            MTVN  has  licensing  arrangements  covering  the  distribution   of
regionally-specific program services in Brazil and Japan.   MTVN  also  licenses
worldwide MTV programs, merchandise and format rights.

           NICKELODEON combines acquired and originally produced programs  in  a
pro-social, non-violent format comprising two distinct program units tailored to
age-specific demographic audiences.  NICKELODEON, targeted to audiences  ages  2
to  14 (which includes NICK JR., a program block designed for 2 to 5 year olds),
features  live-action,  animation and original kid game  shows.   NICK  AT  NITE
primarily attracts an audience ages 18 to 49 and offers "Classic TV(TM)" shows 
from various  eras, including THE DICK VAN DYKE SHOW, THE MARY TYLER MOORE  
SHOW and TAXI.   At  December  31, 1994, NICKELODEON was licensed to  
approximately  55.6 million  cable  subscribers and NICK AT NITE was licensed 
to approximately  55.2 million  cable  subscribers (based on subscriber counts 
provided by  each  cable system for each program unit).  According to the 
Nielsen Report, NICKELODEON and NICK AT NITE each reached approximately 60.9 
million subscriber households. In 1994,  NICKELODEON expanded its brand and 
character licensing  programs  in  the U.S.   and   international  markets  
by  entering  into  merchandise  agreements throughout  the world and by 
producing audio and video product in the  U.S.  and Canada for distribution 
under its agreement with Sony Music Entertainment,  Inc. ("Sony   Music").   
Additionally,  NICKELODEON  has  commenced  publication   of NICKELODEON  
books  with  Simon & Schuster and has  introduced  "The  Big  Help" campaign  
to  encourage volunteerism among young people and "U to  U",  a  fully 
interactive television program.

           NICKELODEON in the U.K. is a joint venture of the Company and British
Sky  Broadcasting Limited and is a 12-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week  satellite-
delivered  children's  programming service which includes  original  programming
produced by NICKELODEON and the joint venture.

           VH1  presents  music videos, long-form music-based  series,  original
concerts, music-based news segments, fashion, comedy and promotions and  targets
an  audience from the ages of 25 to 44.  On October 17, 1994, VH1 was relaunched
as  VH1  MUSIC  FIRST  in the U.S.  At December 31, 1994, VH1  was  licensed  to
approximately  47.2  million  domestic cable subscribers  (based  on  subscriber
counts  provided  by each cable system).  According to the Nielsen  Report,  VH1
reached approximately 49.8 million domestic subscriber households.  VH-1 in  the
U.K.  was  launched  in September 1994 and is distributed to  approximately  3.1
million  viewers  in  the U.K. and Ireland via cable systems and  direct-to-home
satellite  transmission  as  of December 31, 1994 (based  on  subscriber  counts
provided  by each distributor of the service).  VH-1 in Germany was launched  in
March 1995.  The Company has announced plans to launch VH-1 in Latin America  in
1996.

           MTVN,  in  exchange  for  cash and advertising  time  or  promotional
consideration  only,  licenses from record companies the availability  of  music
videos  for  exhibition on MTV and on MTVN's other basic  cable  networks.   The
agreements generally provide that the videos are available for debut by MTVN and
that  certain  videos are subject to exclusive exhibition periods  on  MTV.   In
October  1994,  MTVN  entered into a music video licensing agreement  with  Sony
Music which licenses to MTVN international exhibition rights in key territories.
MTVN's ability to continue to obtain music videos on favorable terms is material
to MTVN.  (See "Business -- Competition")

           MTVN derives revenues principally from two sources:  the sale of time
on  its  own  networks to advertisers and the license of the services  to  cable
television operators and other distributors.  The sale of MTVN advertising  time
is  affected  by  viewer demographics, viewer ratings and market conditions  for
advertising  time.  Adverse changes in general market conditions for advertising
may  affect  MTVN's revenues.  MTVN also derives revenues from the license  fees
paid by cable operators and other distributors which deliver programming by non-
cable  technologies.  In 1994, MTVN derived approximately 59%  of  its  revenues
from music programming and approximately 41% of its revenues from children's and
other programming.

           Showtime Networks Inc.  Showtime Networks Inc. ("SNI") operates three
24-hours-a-day,   seven-days-a-week   commercial-free,   premium    subscription
services:   SHOWTIME,  offering theatrically released  feature  films,  dramatic
series,  comedy specials, boxing events, and original movies; THE MOVIE CHANNEL,
offering  feature  films and related programming including film  festivals;  and
FLIX,  an  added-value premium subscription service featuring movies,  primarily
from  the 1960s, 70s and 80s.  SHOWTIME, THE MOVIE CHANNEL and FLIX are  offered
to   cable   television  operators  and  other  distributors  under  affiliation
agreements which for SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL are generally for a term  of
three  to five years, and in each case are distributed to the systems they serve
by means of domestic communications satellites.  SHOWTIME, THE MOVIE CHANNEL and
FLIX  are  also offered to distributors for subscription by home satellite  dish
owners,  including United States Satellite Broadcasting Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of
Hubbard  Broadcasting,  Inc., which uses high-powered Ku-Band  direct  broadcast
satellite  technology.  At December 31, 1994, SHOWTIME, THE  MOVIE  CHANNEL  and
FLIX,  in  the  aggregate,  had  approximately  13.5  million  cable  and  other
subscribers  in approximately 8,800 cable systems as well as other  distribution
systems  in  50 states and certain U.S. territories.  In January 1995,  SNI  and
Robert  Redford  announced  plans to launch, in late  1995,  the  Sundance  Film
Channel,  designed  to  be  a commercial-free 24-hours-a-day,  seven-days-a-week
premium  subscription service featuring independent and foreign  language  films
and documentaries.

                                     I-3



           SNI  also provides special events, such as sports events, and feature
films to licensees on a pay-per-view basis through its operation of SET PAY  PER
VIEW.   For  example, SNI recently  announced an  exclusive multi-year agreement
among  former heavyweight  champion Mike Tyson,  Don King Productions, Inc., SNI
and  SET PAY PER VIEW for  the pay-per-view  marketing and  exhibition of all of
Mike Tyson's  fights over  three years. SNI,  through  its subsidiary,  Showtime
Satellite  Networks  Inc.,  packages for  distribution  to  home  satellite dish
owners the  Company's  wholly  owned program services as well as COMEDY CENTRAL,
USA NETWORK, the SCI-FI CHANNEL, and certain third-party program services.

          In order to exhibit theatrical motion pictures on premium subscription
television,  SNI enters into commitments to acquire rights, with an emphasis  on
acquiring  exclusive rights for SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL,  from  major  or
independent  motion picture producers and other distributors.  SNI's  exhibition
rights  always  cover the U.S. and may, on a contract-by-contract  basis,  cover
additional  territories.   Theatrical motion pictures  are  generally  exhibited
first  on SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE CHANNEL after an initial period for theatrical,
home  video and pay-per-view exhibition and before the period has commenced  for
standard  broadcast television and basic cable television exhibition.   Many  of
the  motion  pictures  which appear on FLIX have been previously  available  for
standard broadcast and other exhibitions.

           SNI also arranges for the development, production and, in many cases,
distribution of original programs and motion pictures.  These original  programs
and  motion  pictures  premiere on SHOWTIME and certain of such  programming  is
exploited in various media worldwide.

           The cost of acquiring premium television rights to programming is the
principal  expense  of  SNI.   At  December 31, 1994,  in  addition  to  program
acquisition commitments reflected in the Company's financial statements, SNI had
commitments  to acquire programming rights at an aggregate cost of approximately
$1.9  billion,  most of which is payable over the next seven years  as  part  of
SNI's  normal  programming expenditures.  These commitments are contingent  upon
delivery  of motion pictures which are not yet available for premium  television
exhibition and, in many cases, have not yet been produced.

          Joint Ventures.  USA Networks, a joint venture of the Company and MCA,
Inc.  ("MCA"), operates two national advertiser-supported basic cable television
networks: USA NETWORK, a general entertainment and sports channel, and the  SCI-
FI  CHANNEL, a science fiction channel.  COMEDY CENTRAL, a joint venture of  the
Company,  through  MTVN, and Home Box Office ("HBO"), is an advertiser-supported
basic cable television comedy service.  ALL NEWS CHANNEL, a joint venture  of  a
subsidiary  of the Company and Conus Communications Company Limited Partnership,
a  limited  partnership whose managing general partner is Hubbard  Broadcasting,
Inc., consists of national  and international news, weather, sports and business
news. Each of USA NETWORK, the SCI-FI CHANNEL, COMEDY CENTRAL and ALL NEWS
CHANNEL is a 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week service.

           Broadcasting.   The Company owns and operates 12 television  stations
and 12 radio stations.  All  of the television and radio stations operate
pursuant to the Communications Act  of 1934,  as  amended (the "Communications
Act"), and licenses granted by the  FCC, which  are  renewable  every five
years in the case of television  stations  and every seven years in the case
of radio stations.

           The  Company's  strategy has been to acquire  independent  television
stations  in  the top 20 U.S. markets to the extent advantageous in  conjunction
with  the  Company's  formation  of the United Paramount  Network  ("UPN")  (See
"Business  --  Entertainment").  The Company acquired WSBK-TV,  serving  Boston,
Massachusetts, on March 7, 1995 and has entered into agreements to acquire WGBS-
TV, serving Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and WBFS-TV, serving Miami, Florida.  The
Company  sold  WLFL-TV, serving Raleigh/Durham, North Carolina, on  January  17,
1995  and  has  entered  into agreements to sell WTXF-TV, serving  Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania  and  KRRT-TV, serving San Antonio, Texas.  The  table  below  sets
forth  a  list of the 12 television properties owned and operated by the Company
at March 31, 1995.

                                     I-4





*The Company has entered into agreements to sell these television stations.


           The Company owns and operates the following 12 radio stations:  WLTW-
FM,  serving  New  York,  New York (Adult Contemporary),  KYSR-FM  and  KXEZ-FM,
each serving Los Angeles, California (Adult Contemporary), WLIT-FM, serving
Chicago, Illinois  (Adult  Contemporary),  WLTI-FM,  serving  Detroit,  Michigan
(Adult Contemporary),  WMZQ-AM/FM (Country), WJZW-FM (Jazz) and WCPT-AM  (CNN
Headline News),  each  serving  Washington,  D.C.,  KBSG-AM/FM,  serving
Tacoma/Seattle, Washington  (Oldies), and KNDD-FM, serving Seattle, Washington
(New  Rock/AOR). The Company has undertaken to divest two stations in the
Washington, D.C. market as  a  result  of  multiple  ownership issues arising
from  the  acquisition  of Paramount Communications (See "Business
-- Regulation").  On March 22, 1995, the Company sold KSOL-FM,  serving San
Francisco, California, and KYLZ-FM, serving Santa Cruz/San Jose, California.

                                     I-5



Entertainment

           The  Entertainment segment's principal businesses are the  production
and  distribution of motion pictures and television programming as well as movie
theater operations and new media and interactive services.

           Theatrical Motion Pictures. Through PARAMOUNT PICTURES(TM), the 
Company produces, finances and distributes feature motion pictures.  Motion 
pictures are produced  by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, produced by independent 
producers and  financed in whole or in part by PARAMOUNT PICTURES, or produced 
by others and acquired by PARAMOUNT  PICTURES.  Each picture is a separate and 
distinct product  with  its financial  success  dependent upon many factors, 
among  which  cost  and  public response are of fundamental importance.  
Feature motion pictures are produced or acquired  for distribution, normally 
for exhibition in U.S. and foreign theaters followed   by   videocassettes  
and  discs,  pay-per-view  television,   premium subscription  television,  
network  television,  and basic cable television  and syndicated television 
exploitation.  During 1994, PARAMOUNT PICTURES released 16 feature  motion  
pictures, including FORREST GUMP, winner of six Academy  Awards including 
"Best Picture", STAR TREK:  GENERATIONS, NOBODY'S FOOL, and CLEAR  AND
PRESENT  DANGER.   PARAMOUNT PICTURES plans to release approximately  16  to  18
films  in  1995.   In  seeking  to maximize PARAMOUNT  PICTURES'  output,  while
decreasing  its financial exposure, the Company has entered into  agreements  to
distribute  films produced and/or financed by other parties.  For  example,  
entities associated with the Company have agreements with companies with which
Michael Douglas and Steven Reuther are associated, for the production and/or 
financing of 12 films over four years.  PARAMOUNT PICTURES also has an 
agreement with Lakeshore Entertainment Corporation ("Lakeshore") for the  
distribution by PARAMOUNT PICTURES of 15 films to be produced by  Lakeshore
over five years.  In addition, PARAMOUNT PICTURES entered into an agreement with
Columbia  Pictures for PARAMOUNT PICTURES' upcoming feature film THE  INDIAN  IN
THE  CUPBOARD, which will be co-financed by the studios and for which they  will
divide distribution rights and revenues.

           PARAMOUNT  PICTURES  distributes its motion pictures  for  theatrical
release  outside  the  U.S.  and  Canada through United  International  Pictures
("UIP"),  a company  owned by entities associated with the Company, MGM and MCA.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES distributes its motion pictures on videocassette and disc  in
the  U.S.  and  Canada  through Paramount Home Video and outside  the  U.S.  and
Canada,  through  Cinema International B.V., a joint venture  of  entities
associated with the Company and MCA. PARAMOUNT PICTURES has an exclusive premium
subscription television agreement with HBO for exhibition of PARAMOUNT PICTURES'
new  releases  on domestic premium subscription television, which  includes  new
PARAMOUNT PICTURES motion pictures released theatrically through December  1997.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES also distributes its motion pictures for premium subscription
television  release  outside the U.S. and Canada through  UIP  and  is  a  joint
venture  partner  in  HBO Pacific Partners C.V., Latin American  Pay  Television
Service, VOF, Telecine Programacao de Filmes Ltda., and Pay-TV Movies Australia,
which  are premium television services in Asia, Spanish-speaking Latin  America,
Brazil and Australia, respectively.  PARAMOUNT PICTURES also licenses its motion
pictures   to   home  and  hotel/motel  pay-per-view,  airlines,   schools   and
universities.  UIP and United Cinemas International ("UCI", as described  below)
are  the  subject  of various governmental inquiries by the  Commission  of  the
European  Community  ("EC") and Monopolies and Mergers Commission  of  the  U.K.
Such  inquiries are not expected to have a material effect on the  Company  (See
"Business  --  Competition").   Most  motion pictures  are also licensed for 
exhibition on television, including basic  cable television, with fees generally
collected in installments.

           All  of  the above license fees for television exhibition  (including
international  and domestic premium television and basic cable  television)  are
recorded  as  revenue  in  the  year  that the  films  are  available  for  such
exhibition,  which,  among other reasons, may cause substantial  fluctuation  in
PARAMOUNT  PICTURES' operating results.  At December 31, 1994, the  unrecognized
revenues  attributable  to  such  licensing of completed  films  from  PARAMOUNT
PICTURES'  license  agreements  were approximately  $574.7  million.   PARAMOUNT
PICTURES has over 900 motion pictures in its library.

           Television Production and Syndication.  The Company also produces and
distributes  series,  miniseries, specials and  made-for-television  movies  for
network television, first-run syndication, premium subscription and basic  cable
television, videocassettes and video discs, and live television programming.  As
a  result of the Blockbuster Merger, the Company acquired approximately  77%  of
Spelling   Entertainment  Group  Inc.  ("Spelling"),  which  includes   Spelling
Television, Republic Pictures and Worldvision Enterprises ("Worldvision").

                                     I-6



           The  Company's current network programming includes FRASIER,  WINGS,
THE MOMMIES, THE MARSHAL, SISTER, SISTER, DIAGNOSIS: MURDER and
MATLOCK,  and  through  Spelling,  BEVERLY  HILLS,  90210  and  MELROSE   PLACE.
Generally,  a network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition
on  the  network in the U.S. during the license period.  All other  distribution
rights,  including foreign and off-network syndication rights, are  retained  by
the  Company.  The episodic license fee is normally less than the Company's  and
Spelling's respective costs of producing each series episode; however,  in  many
cases,  the Company has been successful in obtaining international sales through
its  and  Spelling's  respective  syndication  operations.   Foreign  sales  are
generally  concurrent with U.S. network runs.  Generally, a series must  have  a
network run of at least four years to be successfully sold in syndication.

           The Company produces television programming for first-run syndication
which programs are sold directly to television stations in the U.S. on a market-
by-market  basis.   The  Company sells its programs to television  stations  for
cash, advertising time or a combination of both.  Where a product is licensed in
exchange for advertising time, through what are known as "barter agreements",  a
broadcaster  agrees to give the Company a specified amount of advertising  time,
which  the  Company  subsequently  sells.  The  Company's  first-run  syndicated
programming  includes  such shows as STAR TREK: DEEP SPACE  NINE,  ENTERTAINMENT
TONIGHT,  HARD COPY, SIGHTINGS, THE MAURY POVICH SHOW, THE MONTEL WILLIAMS  SHOW
and THE JON STEWART SHOW.  PARAMOUNT PICTURES recently entered into an agreement
with  Procter & Gamble Productions, Inc. ("P&G") pursuant to which P&G will  co-
finance  certain  network  and  first-run  syndicated  programming  produced  by
PARAMOUNT PICTURES during the term of the agreement.

           The  Company  produces  original programming,  including  STAR  TREK:
VOYAGER,  PLATYPUS MAN, PIGSTY and THE WATCHER, for  UPN.   UPN launched on 
January 16, 1995  in  more  than  95  U.S. television markets and currently 
provides to its affiliates four hours per  week of  primetime programming.  
UPN is currently 100% owned by subsidiaries  of  BHC Communications, Inc. 
("BHC"), an affiliate of Chris Craft Industries, Inc.   The Company  has  an  
option  exercisable through January 15,  1997  to  acquire  an interest in 
UPN equal to that of BHC and its subsidiaries for a price equivalent
to  approximately one-half of BHC's aggregated cash contributions to UPN through
the exercise date, plus market-based interest.

           The  Company  distributes  or syndicates television  series,  feature
films,  made-for-television  movies,  miniseries  and  specials  for  television
exhibition  in  domestic  and/or  international  broadcast,  cable   and   other
marketplaces.  Feature film and television properties distributed by the Company
are  produced  by  the Company and/or Spelling or acquired from  third  parties.
Third  party agreements for the acquisition of distribution rights are generally
long-term  and  exclusive  in  nature; such agreements  frequently  guarantee  a
minimum  recoupable advance payment to such third parties and generally  provide
for  periodic  payment  to such third parties based on the  amount  of  revenues
derived from distribution activities after deduction of the Company's percentage
distribution  fee,  recoupment of distribution expenses and  recoupment  of  any
advance payments. The Company and Worldvision together control the rights  to
distribute substantially all of the pre-1971 libraries of CBS, NBC and ABC.

          The receipt and recognition of revenues for license fees for completed
television programming in syndication and on basic cable is similar to  that  of
feature  films exhibited on television and, consequently, operating results  are
subject  to  substantial  fluctuation.  At December 31, 1994,  the  unrecognized
revenues   attributable   to   television  program   license   agreements   were
approximately $486.4 million.

          Theatrical Exhibition.  The Company's movie theater operations consist
primarily of Famous Players in Canada, UCI and Films Paramount in Europe, and
Cinamerica  in the Western U.S.  Famous Players operates 465 screens in 109 
theaters throughout Canada.   UCI,  a 50%-owned joint venture of entities 
associated with the Company and MCA, operates 247 screens  in  26 theaters  
in the U.K. and Ireland, 51 screens in four theaters in Germany,  nine screens  
in one theater in Austria and 81 screens in 25 theaters in Spain.   UCI also  
manages  in six countries, 31 screens in 17 theaters which  are  owned  by 
Cinema  International  Corporation, a joint venture with MCA.   Films  
Paramount operates seven screens in one theater in France.  Cinamerica, a 
50%-owned  joint venture  of entities associated with the Company and Time 
Warner Inc., includes Mann and Festival Theaters and operates 349 screens in 
65 theaters in California,  Colorado, Arizona and Alaska.

                                     I-7



           New  Media  and  Interactive Services.  Viacom Interactive  Media  is
comprised of Viacom New Media and Viacom Interactive Services.  Viacom New Media
develops, produces, publishes, markets and distributes interactive software on a
wide variety of platforms.  Viacom New Media derives its content from brands and
franchises  developed by Viacom's business units, including PARAMOUNT  PICTURES,
MTV  Networks  and Paramount Television, and also secures outside  licenses  and
acquisitions.  In 1994, Viacom New Media released 12 titles, some of which  were
released  for  multiple platforms; the titles represent 16 stock  keeping  units
("sku's").   In  1995,  Viacom  New Media expects  to  release  12  new  titles,
representing  29  sku's.   Viacom  Interactive Services  collaborates  with  the
Company's  various  business  units  to develop  their  respective  on-line  and
interactive television environments.  The Company, through Spelling,  also  owns
90%  of Virgin Interactive Entertainment Ltd. ("Virgin"), a leading video game 
producer with a library of more than 100 titles which distributes video games in
approximately 30 countries. In 1994, Virgin released 54 titles, some of which 
were released for multiple platforms; the titles represent 90 sku's. In 1995,
Virgin expects to release 71 new titles, representing 130 sku's.


Video and Music/Theme Parks

           The Company operates in the home video retailing and rental business,
music  retailing  business,  and theme parks business  through  its  Blockbuster
Entertainment Group ("Blockbuster").

           Home  Video  Retailing.  Blockbuster is the leading worldwide  owner,
operator  and franchisor of videocassette rental and sales stores.   BLOCKBUSTER
VIDEO (R) stores range  in size from approximately 3,800 square  feet to 11,500
square  feet, and generally carry a comprehensive selection of 7,000  to  13,000
prerecorded videocassettes, consisting of more than 5,000 titles.

           At  December 31, 1994, there were 4,069 video stores in Blockbuster's
system,  of  which  3,067 were Blockbuster-owned and 1,002 were franchise-owned.
Blockbuster-owned  video  stores  at  December  31,  1994  included  711  stores
operating under the "Ritz" and "Blockbuster Video Express" trade names in 
Europe. At December  31, 1994,  the  BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO system operated in all 
50 states and  13  foreign countries.   The Company expects to add approximately
650 stores  systemwide  in 1995. Also in 1995, the  Company  entered  into 
franchise agreements pursuant to  which  BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO  stores  will be 
opened in Columbia, Peru and Thailand,  and  the  Company formed  a  joint  
venture  with Burda, one of Germany's largest  publishers,  to develop 
BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores in Germany.  During the first quarter of  1995, 132 
small video stores operating under the "Ritz" trade name in the U.K. were 
closed in connection with the Company's conversion of "Ritz" stores to
"Blockbuster Video Express" stores.

          The Company's home video business may be affected by a variety of
factors, including but not limited to, general economic trends, acquisitions
made by the Company, additional and existing competition, marketing programs, 
weather, special or unusual events, variations in the number of store 
openings, the quality of new release titles available for rental and sale, 
and similar factors that may affect retailers in general. As compared to other 
months of the year, revenue from BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO stores in the U.S. has been,
and the Company believes will continue to be, subject to decline during the 
months of April and May, due in part to the change to Daylight Savings Time, 
and during the months of September, October and November, due in part to the 
start of school and the introduction of new television programs.

          Music Retailing.  Through music stores operating under the 
"Blockbuster Music" trade name, Blockbuster is among the largest specialty 
retailers of prerecorded music in the United States. At December 31, 1994, 
Blockbuster owned and operated 542 music stores in 34 states.  These music 
stores range in size from 900 to 24,600 square feet and generally carry a 
comprehensive selection of 25,000 to 135,000 compact discs and audio cassettes 
consisting of up to 60,000 titles.

          The Company's music business may be affected by a variety of
factors, including but not limited to, general economic trends and conditions
in the music industry, including the quality of new titles and artists, existing
and additional competition, changes in technology, and similar factors that
may affect retailers in general. The Company's music business is seasonal, with
higher than average monthly revenue experienced during the Thanksgiving and
Christmas seasons, and lower than average monthly revenue experienced in
September and October.

           Theme Parks.  The Company, through PARAMOUNT PARKS (TM), owns and 
operates five regional theme parks in the U.S. and Canada: Paramount's 
Carowinds, in Charlotte, North  Carolina; Paramount's  Great America, in  Santa
Clara, California; Paramount's Kings Dominion located near Richmond,  Virginia;
Paramount's  Kings Island located near Cincinnati, Ohio; and Paramount  Canada's
Wonderland located near Toronto, Ontario.  Substantially all of the theme parks'
operating  income  is generated from May through September.  In  December  1994,
PARAMOUNT  PARKS and Hilton Hotels Corporation agreed to launch STAR  TREK:  THE
EXPERIENCE,  a futuristic-themed, interactive environment within the  Las  Vegas
Hilton which is expected to open in late 1996.

           Other  Entertainment.   At  December  31,  1994,  the  Company  owned
approximately  49.6%  of the outstanding common stock of  Discovery  Zone,  Inc.
("Discovery  Zone") (approximately 36.7% on a fully diluted  basis).   Discovery
Zone  owns,  operates and franchises large indoor recreational spaces  known  as
FunCenters,  and  operates  Leaps and Bounds indoor  entertainment  and  fitness
facilities.   Blockbuster is also a partner in a joint  venture  with  Discovery

                                     I-8



Zone  to  develop up to 10 FunCenters in the U.K.  The Company accounts for  its
interest  in Discovery Zone as an equity interest.  Through joint ventures  with
Sony  Music  and  PACE  Entertainment Corporation, the  Company  operates  seven
amphitheaters  in  the U.S., with plans to open an eighth amphitheater  in  mid-
1995.   Through PARAMOUNT PARKS, the Company owns five additional amphitheaters.
Through   PARAMOUNT   PARKS,  the  Company  owns  and  operates BLOCK PARTY (TM)
entertainment centers in Indianapolis, Indiana and Albuquerque, New Mexico, each
of  which  were  opened in January 1995.  The Company also owns an approximately
35% interest in Catapult Entertainment, Inc., a company which has established  a
service enabling multiple video game players to compete against one another from
different  locations in "real time" by modem without requiring  modification  to
either hardware or software.


Publishing

           The  Company,  principally through Simon &  Schuster  and  affiliated
companies,  publishes and distributes hardcover and paperback books, educational
textbooks,  supplemental  educational materials  and  multimedia  products,  and
provides  information and reference services for business and  professions.   In
February 1994, Simon & Schuster completed the acquisition of the U.S. publishing
assets  of  Macmillan, Inc. for approximately $553 million.  Simon &  Schuster's
well-known  imprints  include SIMON & SCHUSTER, THE FREE  PRESS,  POCKET  BOOKS,
MACMILLAN  PUBLISHING USA, PRENTICE HALL, SCRIBNER, SILVER BURDETT  GINN,  ALLYN
AND  BACON,  COMPUTER CURRICULUM CORPORATION and EDUCATIONAL  MANAGEMENT  GROUP,
among others.  Simon & Schuster distributes its books directly and through third
parties on a retail and wholesale basis.

           Educational Publishing.  The Elementary, Secondary, Higher  Education
and  Educational Technology divisions publish elementary, secondary and  college
textbooks   and   related   materials,  computer-based   educational   products,
audiovisual products and vocational and technical materials under such  imprints
as  PRENTICE  HALL, SILVER BURDETT GINN and ALLYN AND BACON, among  others.   In
February  1995,  Simon  &  Schuster acquired all of  the  outstanding  stock  of
Educational  Management  Group Inc., an interactive  telecommunications  company
that  develops  and  distributes  customized instructional  materials  and  live
interactive  television services to schools and reaches more  than  one  million
students  in 3,500 schools.  Computer Curriculum Corporation delivers multimedia
coursework  to more than 1.5 million students in approximately 8,000 schools  in
six  countries.  The educational marketplace is subject to seasonal fluctuations
in  its  business  which  correlate to the traditional school  year.   Sales  to
elementary  and secondary schools are dependent, in part, on the  "adoption"  or
selection  of instructional materials by designated state agencies.   22  states
and  some localities limit the textbooks that may be purchased with state  funds
to those books that have been approved by the adoption authority.

           Consumer Publishing.  The Consumer division publishes and distributes
hardcover, trade paperback and mass market books under imprints including  SIMON
&  SCHUSTER,  POCKET  BOOKS, SCRIBNER, THE FREE PRESS, SIMON  &  SCHUSTER  TRADE
PAPERBACK,  which includes FIRESIDE, TOUCHSTONE, SCRIBNER PAPERBACK FICTION  and
SIMON  &  SCHUSTER LIBROS AGUILAR ESPANOL as well as SIMON & SCHUSTER CHILDREN'S
PUBLISHING, which includes ALADDIN PAPERBACKS, ATHENEUM BOOKS FOR YOUNG READERS,
LITTLE SIMON, MARGARET K. McELDERRY BOOKS, and SIMON & SCHUSTER BOOKS FOR  YOUNG
READERS.   In  1994, the Consumer division announced the formation  of  Simon  &
Schuster  New  Media,  combining Simon & Schuster  Audio,  the  world's  largest
publisher  of  audio books, with the newly created Simon & Schuster Interactive,
which  has  15  CD-ROM titles scheduled for publication in 1995.   The  consumer
marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand in the summer  months  and
during the end-of-year holiday season.

           Business, Training and Healthcare Publishing.  Through a wide variety
of  imprints,  Simon & Schuster publishes a full range of business, professional
training,   and  medical  healthcare  information  products,  including   books,
newsletters,  journals,  seminars,  videos,  loose-leaf  series  and  multimedia
programs.  Operating units include The New York Institute of Finance, Appleton &
Lange, Jossey-Bass, The Bureau of Business Practice, and Prentice Hall Direct.

          Reference Publishing - Macmillan Publishing USA.  Macmillan Publishing
USA,   the   umbrella  identity  of  Simon  &  Schuster's  reference  publishing
operations, is the industry leader in computer book publishing and a  leader  in
home/library  reference  publishing.   The  unit's  imprints  include  MACMILLAN

                                     I-9



COMPUTER  PUBLISHING USA (QUE, SAMS, HAYDEN BOOKS, NEW RIDERS PUBLISHING,  BRADY
GAMES), MACMILLAN GENERAL REFERENCE  USA (ARCO, BETTY CROCKER, BURPEE, FROMMER'S
TRAVEL  GUIDES, HARRAP'S  BILINGUAL  DICTIONARIES,  HOWELL  BOOK  HOUSE,  
MONARCH NOTES, J.K. LASSER, THE  PLACES RATED  ALMANAC,  THE UNOFFICIAL GUIDES,
WEBSTER'S NEW WORLD), MACMILLAN  LIBRARY REFERENCE  USA  (CHARLES  SCRIBNER'S 
SONS, G.K. HALL, MACMILLAN  REFERENCE  USA) and  MACMILLAN  DIGITAL USA, which 
publishes  computer  books  and reference content in electronic formats.

           International.   The International Group publishes approximately  650
titles each year, primarily in the areas of academic, computer, English language
training,  and professional publishing in 10 languages and 34 countries  outside
North   America.    The   International  Group  also   maintains   co-publishing
partnerships  in  14 countries, such as Japan (Toppan and Impress)  and  Hungary
(Novotrade),  whose  operations  include distribution  of  U.S.  product,  local
language  translation and adaptation of U.S. product, and indigenous publishing.
In  January  1995, the Company acquired German computer book publisher  Markt  &
Technik,  enhancing the Company's position as the world's largest computer  book
publisher and providing greater opportunities for expansion into other  European
markets, particularly Eastern Europe.


Cable Television

           Cable  Operations.  At December 31, 1994, the Company, through Viacom
Cable  Television ("Viacom Cable"), was approximately the 12th largest  multiple
cable  television  system  operator in the U.S. with approximately  1.1  million
subscribers.   On  January  20,  1995, the Company  agreed  to  sell  its  cable
television systems to a partnership of which Mitgo Corp., a company wholly owned
by  African  American businessman Frank Washington, is the general partner,  for
approximately $2.3 billion, subject to certain conditions, including receipt  of
a  tax  certificate  from the FCC and the availability of  certain  federal  tax
consequences  of  the  sale  advantageous to the Company.   The  U.S.  House  of
Representatives  and  the  U.S.  Senate  have  approved  a  similar  version  of
legislation  that  would  eliminate   such   tax  consequences.   The  House  of
Representatives has also  approved  a  compromise  version of the bill, which is
awaiting Senate approval.  The Company has announced that it  will  not  proceed
with the agreed transaction  in  the  event  that  such  tax   consequences  are
unavailable (see "Business -- Regulation").  The Company has also announced that
it is considering other options with respect to  the  disposition  of its  cable
systems and that it intends to proceed  with such  disposition.  Viacom  Cable's
systems are operated  pursuant  to  non-exclusive franchises  granted  by  local
governing authorities.

          In most of its systems, Viacom Cable offers two tiers of primary (i.e,
non-premium) service:  "Limited Service", which consists generally of local  and
distant  broadcast stations and all public, educational and governmental ("PEG")
channels  required  by  local franchise authorities; and  the  "Satellite  Value
Package",  which  provides  additional  channels  of  satellite-delivered  cable
networks.   Monthly  service  fees  for these  two  levels  of  primary  service
constitute the major source of the systems' revenue.  In addition, Viacom  Cable
has  introduced a third tier of non-premium service which qualifies  as  a  non-
regulated "new product tier" under the Cable Television Consumer Protection  and
Competition  Act  of  1992 (the "1992 Cable Act") in its  Nashville,  Tennessee,
Pittsburg, California, Puget Sound South and most of its Puget Sound  North  and
Central  systems.   Each  such  tier consists of five  channels  of  advertiser-
supported cable networks.

           The  monthly service fees for Limited Service and the Satellite Value
Package  are  regulated under the 1992 Cable Act (See "Business -- Regulation").
The Company offers customers the Company's own basic program services (including
joint venture program services) as well as third-party services.  None of Viacom
Cable's  systems is presently exempt from rate regulation under the  1992  Cable
Act.   The  new  product  tiers mentioned above are not rate  regulated  at  the
present  time,  but the FCC has reserved the right to reopen the issue  of  rate
regulation for new product tiers in the future.

           Viacom  Cable offers premium cable television programming,  including
the Company's premium subscription television services, to its customers for  an
additional  monthly fee of up to $11.95 per premium service.   At  December  31,
1994,   the  Company's  cable  television  systems  had  approximately   875,000
subscriptions to premium cable television program services.

                                     I-10


           Viacom  Cable  also derives revenues from the lease of certain  fiber
optic  capacity  in three of its markets to partnerships engaged in  competitive
access  telephone services and in all of its markets from advertising sales  and
sharing of revenues from sales of products on home shopping services offered  by
Viacom Cable to its customers.

           Cable operators require substantial capital expenditures to construct
systems  and  significant annual expenditures to maintain,  rebuild  and  expand
systems.   System construction and operation and quality of equipment used  must
conform  with federal, state and local electrical and safety codes  and  certain
regulations  of  the  FCC.  Viacom Cable, like many other  cable  operators,  is
analyzing  potential business applications for its broadband network,  including
interactive  video,  video  on  demand,  data  services  and  telephony.   These
applications,  either individually or in combination, may require  technological
changes  such  as  fiber  optics and digital compression.   Although  management
believes  the  equipment  used  in the cable operations  is  in  good  operating
condition,  except  for ordinary wear and tear, the Company invests  significant
amounts each year to upgrade, rebuild and expand its cable systems.  During  the
last five years, Viacom Cable's capital expenditures were as follows:  1990: $46
million; 1991: $45 million; 1992: $55 million; 1993: $79 million; and 1994: $100
million.  The Company expects that Viacom Cable's capital expenditures  in  1995
will  be  approximately  $135  million.  A substantial  amount  of  the  capital
expenditures  for 1995 will be reimbursed by the buyer if the proposed  sale  of
Viacom Cable is consummated.

           Viacom  Cable  has constructed a fiber optic cable system  in  Castro
Valley,  California to provide more channels with significantly  better  picture
quality, and to accommodate testing of new services including an interactive on-
screen programming guide known as StarSight (in which consolidated affiliates of
the  Company currently have an approximately 25% equity interest on  a  combined
basis),  other  interactive  programs with Viacom Interactive  Media,  video-on-
demand  services, multiplexed services, and advanced interactive video and  data
services.



Intellectual Property

           It  is  the  Company's practice to maintain U.S.  and  foreign  legal
protection for its theatrical and television product, software, publications and
its  other original and acquired works.  The following logos and trademarks  are
among  those strongly identified with the product lines they represent  and  are
significant  assets  of  the  Company:  VIACOM (R),  the BLOCKBUSTER (R) family 
of  marks, MACMILLAN (R), MTV:   MUSIC TELEVISION (R), NICK  AT  NITE  (R), 
NICKELODEON (R), the  PARAMOUNT (R) family  of  marks,  POCKET BOOKS (TM), 
SIMON & SCHUSTER (R), SHOWTIME (R) and  VH1  MUSIC FIRST (TM).

COMPETITION

Networks

          MTVN.  MTVN services are in competition for available channel space on
existing  cable systems and for fees from cable operators and alternative  media
distributors, with other cable program services, and nationally distributed  and
local  independent  television  stations.  MTVN also  competes  for  advertising
revenue  with  other cable and broadcast television programmers, and  radio  and
print  media.  For basic cable television programmers, such as MTVN, advertising
revenues  derived by each programming service depend on the number of households
subscribing to the service through local cable operators and other distributors.
                                     I-11


           At December  31,  1994, there were 31  principal  cable  program
services  and  superstations,  each  with over  10  million  subscribers,  under
contract  with A.C. Nielsen Company, including MTV, VH1, NICKELODEON  (including
NICKELODEON  and  NICK  AT NITE program segments), USA NETWORK  and  the  SCI-FI
CHANNEL.  The Nielsen Report ranked USA NETWORK fourth, NICKELODEON/NICK AT NITE
seventh,  MTV  twelfth,  VH1 sixteenth and the SCI-FI CHANNEL  twenty-sixth,  in
terms of subscriber households.

            Certain major record companies have announced plans to launch music-
based  program services in the U.S. and internationally. Major worldwide  record
companies have attempted to license their music videos to MTV EUROPE only  on  a
collective basis, the lawfulness of which is being challenged by MTV EUROPE (See
"Item 3. Legal Proceedings").

           SNI.   Competition  among  premium  subscription  television  program
services  is  primarily dependent on:  (1) the acquisition and packaging  of  an
adequate  number  of  recently released quality motion  pictures;  and  (2)  the
offering  of  prices, marketing and advertising support and other incentives  to
cable  operators and other distributors so as to favorably position and  package
SNI's  premium subscription television program services to subscribers.  HBO  is
the  dominant company in the premium subscription television category,  offering
two  premium  subscription  television program services,  the  HBO  service  and
Cinemax.  SNI is second to HBO with a significantly smaller share of the premium
subscription  television category.  In addition, in February 1994, Encore  Media
Corp.  (an  affiliate of Tele-Communications, Inc.) launched Starz!,  a  premium
subscription  television  program  service featuring  recently  released  motion
pictures, in competition with SNI's premium program services.

           General.   The  Company's antitrust suit against Tele-Communications,
Inc.,  et  al.,  which  is  pending in the Southern District  of  New  York,  is
currently  suspended  pending  satisfaction of  certain  conditions,  which,  if
satisfied,  would  lead  to  settlement of the  action.   (See  "Item  3.  Legal
Proceedings")

           The potential exists that one or more telephone companies ("telcos"),
either  individually  or  in groups, will enter the  business  of  creating  and
distributing program services, both inside and outside their respective  service
areas (See "Cable Television -- Video Dialtone Regulations" below).  The Company
cannot predict the impact that telco entry into those businesses may have on the
Company's program services.

Broadcasting

           The  principal  methods of competition in the  television  and  radio
broadcasting field are the development of audience interest through  programming
and  promotions.  Unlike broadcast station owners which seek network affiliates,
the Company's strategy has been to seek to acquire independent stations each  of
which will be primarily affiliated with UPN.  At this time, UPN has very limited
programming and, to the extent that the Company acquires independent affiliates,
there  will  be  a  need  for those stations to acquire additional  programming.
Television  and radio stations also compete for advertising revenues with  other
stations  in  their  respective coverage areas and with  all  other  advertising
media.   They  also compete with various other forms of leisure time activities,
such  as cable television systems and audio players and video recorders.   These
competing  services, which may provide improved signal reception  and  offer  an
increased  home  entertainment  selection,  have  been  in  a  period  of  rapid
development and expansion.  Technological advances and regulatory policies  will
have  an  impact  upon  the  future competitive  broadcasting  environment.   In
particular, recent FCC liberalization of its radio station ownership limits will
allow for increased group ownership of stations.  However, the Company is unable
to  predict what impact these rule changes will have on its businesses in  their
markets.  ("See Business -- Regulation")

           Direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") distribution of programs commenced
in  1994.   Additionally,  the  FCC has issued  rules  which  may  significantly
increase  the  number  of  multipoint distribution service  systems  (i.e.,  the
distribution  of  video  services on microwave frequencies  which  can  only  be
received by special microwave antennas).  The FCC has also authorized video uses
of  certain frequencies which have not traditionally been used or permitted  for
commercial video services and has issued rules which will increase the number of
FM  and  AM  stations.   The FCC is also considering authorizing  digital  audio
broadcasts,  which could ultimately permit increased radio competition by
satellite  delivery  of audio stations directly to the home  (or  to  cars)  and
result  in  an  increased  spectrum being used for  digital  delivery  of  radio
signals,  and  it  has  authorized and is in the process of licensing  low-power
television  stations ("LPTV stations") that may serve various  communities  with
coverage  areas  smaller  than  those served  by  full  conventional  television
stations.  Because of their coverage limitations, LPTV stations may be allocated
to  communities which cannot accommodate a full-power television station because
of technical requirements.
                                     I-12



Entertainment

           The  Company's  entertainment businesses compete with  all  forms  of
entertainment.   The  Company competes intensely with other  major  studios  and
independent film producers in the production and distribution of motion pictures
and  video  cassettes.  Similarly, as a producer and distributor  of  television
programs,  the Company competes with other studios and independent producers  in
the licensing of television programs to both networks and independent television
stations.   PARAMOUNT PICTURES' competitive position primarily  depends  on  the
quality  of  the product produced, public response and cost.  The  Company  also
competes to obtain creative talents and story properties which are essential  to
the  success of all of the Company's entertainment businesses.  UIP and UCI  are
the  subject of various governmental inquiries by the EC and the Monopolies  and
Mergers  Commission  of  the U.K.  Such inquiries are not  expected  to  have  a
material effect on the Company's businesses.

           In addition to the competitive factors applicable to all areas of the
entertainment  industry, the marketplace for interactive entertainment  is  also
characterized by the rapid evolution of distribution technologies.

Video

           The  home  video retail business is highly competitive.  The  Company
believes  that  the  principal competitive factors in  the  business  are  title
selection, number of copies of titles available, the quality of customer service
and,  to  a  lesser extent, pricing.  The Company believes that it has generally
addressed  the  selection and service demands of consumers more adequately  than
most of its competitors.

          The Company and its franchise owners compete with video retail stores,
as  well  as  supermarkets, drug stores, convenience stores, book  stores,  mass
merchandisers and others.  The Company believes that the success of its business
depends  in  part  on its large and attractive Company-owned and franchise-owned
BLOCKBUSTER  VIDEO stores offering a wider selection of titles  and  larger  and
more  accessible inventory than its competitors, in addition to more  convenient
store  locations,  faster  and  more efficient  computerized  check-in/check-out
procedures, extended operating hours, effective customer service and competitive
pricing.

            The  Company's  business  is  also  dependent  on  the  pricing   of
videocassettes  by  distributors  since such  pricing  significantly  influences
whether a title is marketed by retailers primarily for rental or sale (or "sell-
thru")  to consumers.  Since the Company has a larger share of the rental market
than  the sell-thru market and since its margins are generally higher for rental
product than for sell-thru market, an increase in the number of sell-thru titles
may have an adverse impact on the Company's business.

           In addition to competing with other home video retailers, the Company
and  its  franchise  owners compete with all other forms  of  entertainment  and
recreational  activities including, but not limited to, movie theaters,  network
television and other events, such as sporting events.  The Company also competes
with  cable television, which includes pay-per-view television.  Currently, pay-
per-view  television  provides less viewing flexibility  to  the  consumer  than
videocassettes,  and  the  more  popular  movies  are  generally  available   on
videocassette   prior   to  appearing  on  pay-per-view  television.    However,
technological advances could result in greater viewing flexibility for  pay-per-
view  or  in  other methods of electronic delivery, and such developments  could
have an adverse impact on the Company and its franchise owners' businesses.

           Several  consumer product companies have recently announced plans  to
introduce a new product to exhibit prerecorded filmed entertainment products  on
television.   The  product, the digital video disc player, is  to  be  based  on
digital technology and would permit a film that is recorded in digital format on
a  compact  disc  to  be  exhibited  on a standard  television  set.   This  new
technology  is  said  to  offer significant benefits to  consumers  by  enabling
distributors   to   produce   a  lower  cost,  higher   quality   product   than
videocassettes.  The Company is unable to determine at this time whether and, if
so,  when,  this new format will be introduced into the marketplace, whether  it
will  gain  significant  consumer acceptance generally or  among  the  Company's
customers.  As a result, the Company is unable to determine the impact this  new
format will have on the Company's business.

                                     I-13



Music

           The  retail sale of prerecorded music and related products is  highly
competitive  among numerous chain and department stores, discount  stores,  mail
order  clubs  and specialty music stores.  Some mail order clubs are  affiliated
with  major  manufacturers  of  prerecorded  music  and  may  have  advantageous
marketing  arrangements with their affiliates.  As music stores generally  serve
individual  or local markets, competition is fragmented and varies substantially
from one location or geographic area to another.  The Company believes that  its
ability to compete successfully in the music retailing business depends  on  its
ability  to  secure  and  maintain attractive and convenient  locations,  manage
merchandise  efficiently,  offer  broad merchandise  selections  at  competitive
prices and provide effective service to its customers.

          The retailing of certain prerecorded music products has changed during
the  past  year.  A large number of mass merchandisers have begun  to  sell  new
releases at or, in certain cases, below cost in order to attract customers  into
their  stores  and  generate sales of other products.  In an attempt  to  remain
competitive, the Company has reduced the price at which it sells these products,
resulting  in  lower  revenue.   The Company believes  that  this  practice  may
continue for a period of time as mass merchandisers continue to open stores  and
build their customer base.

Theme Parks

           The  Company's  theme parks compete with other theme parks  in  their
respective   geographic  regions  as  well  as  with  other  forms  of   leisure
entertainment.  The profitability of the leisure-time industry is influenced  by
various   factors  which  are  not  directly  controllable,  such  as   economic
conditions, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices  and
weather  patterns.  The Company believes that its intellectual  properties  will
enhance  existing attractions and facilitate the development of new  attractions
to encourage visitors to PARAMOUNT PARKS.

Publishing

          Competition in the elementary, secondary and higher education textbook
and  the  trade  and paperback book fields is intense, with a number  of  strong
competitors.   In addition, the acquisition of publication rights  to  important
book  titles is highly competitive and the Company competes with numerous  other
book publishers.  In the field of elementary and secondary school textbooks,  22
states  and some local jurisdictions limit the textbooks that may be  bought  by
school  systems  with  state funds to those books that  have  been  approved  by
adoption or listing.  In the higher education textbook field, new books  compete
with  used  books.   In addition, book piracy affects sales in  certain  foreign
markets.   A  large  portion of annual sales of educational  textbooks  is  made
during the June to September period.  In certain areas of publishing, books  are
usually  sold  on  a  fully-returnable basis resulting  in  significant  product
returns  to publishers.  In the field of information services to businesses  and
professionals,  there  are  numerous  organizations  that  provide   competitive
materials and services.

Cable Television

            The  Company's  cable  systems  operate  pursuant  to  non-exclusive
franchises  granted by local governing authorities (either municipal or  county)
and   compete  for  viewers  with  other  distribution  systems  which   deliver
programming  by  microwave transmission (MDS or MMDS) and SMATV or  directly  to
subscribers  via either "TVRO" or DBS technology.  The strength  of  competition
depends  upon  the  reliability, programming and  pricing  of  such  alternative
distribution   systems.   Digital  compression  may  allow  cable   systems   to
significantly  increase the number of channels of programming they  deliver  and
thereby  help  cable  systems  meet competition from  these  other  distribution
systems.

           The  Company views the future success of the cable business as  being
dependent  on supplying additional programming and new services to its customers
and increasing primary and premium subscriber penetrations.

                                     I-14

           As  the Company's cable television systems are franchised on  a  non-
exclusive basis, other cable operators have been franchised and may continue  to
apply for franchises in certain areas served by the Company's cable systems.  In
addition,  the  1992  Cable Act prohibits a franchisor from  granting  exclusive
franchises  and  from  unreasonably refusing  to  award  additional  competitive
franchises.

           The  entry  of telcos into the cable television business may  provide
additional  competition  to  the cable industry.  Current  prohibitions  against
telcos  engaging  in  the cable television business within their  local  service
areas  have been held by some courts to be unconstitutional and, although  these
decisions are being appealed, the FCC, on March 17, 1995, issued a public notice
announcing  that  it  will no longer enforce its cross-ownership  rules  in  the
Fourth  and  Ninth  Circuits.   A  significant number  of  the  Company's  cable
franchise  areas  are in the Ninth Circuit.  In addition, the  FCC  has  adopted
video dialtone ("VDT") regulations which allow delivery of video  programming
over  telephone lines without the requirement to obtain a franchise and the  FCC
has  proposed  substantial  revisions  to such  regulations  (See  "Business  --
Regulation").  The Company is a general partner in three partnerships  providing
commercial  competitive access services which link business  customers  to  long
distance  carriers  via private networks owned by the cable  television  company
partners  and leased to the partnerships.  These interests will be sold  if  the
proposed sale of the Company's cable systems is consummated.

REGULATION

           The  Company's networks, broadcasting, entertainment, video and music
distribution,  publishing,  and  cable  television  businesses  are  subject  to
regulation  by  federal,  state  and  local governmental  authorities,  and  its
broadcast  television,  production  and  distribution  operations  are  affected
thereby.   The  rules,  regulations, policies  and  procedures  affecting  these
businesses are constantly subject to change.  The descriptions which follow  are
summaries  and  should be read in conjunction with the texts  of  the  statutes,
rules  and  regulations described herein.  The descriptions do  not  purport  to
describe  all present and proposed federal, state and local statutes, rules  and
regulations affecting the Company's businesses.

Intellectual Property

           The  Company conducts many of its businesses through the control  and
exploitation  of the numerous copyrights and trademarks underlying its  products
and  licenses; therefore, domestic and international laws affecting intellectual
property  have  significant importance to the Company.   Congress  is  currently
considering  revisions  to  the Copyright Act of  1976  (the  "Copyright  Act"),
including  extension of the protection term by 20 years, and the creation  of  a
performance  right for digital performances of sound recordings.   Congress  may
also  consider legislation to update the Copyright Act to take into account  new
technological   developments  relating  to  the  distribution   of   copyrighted
materials.

           COMPULSORY  COPYRIGHT.  Cable television systems are subject  to  the
Copyright  Act  which  provides a compulsory license  for  carriage  of  distant
broadcast  signals  at  prescribed rates (the proceeds  are  divided  among  the
various  copyright  holders  of the programs contained  in  such  signals).   No
license  fee  is  payable to any program copyright holder for retransmission  of
broadcast  signals  which are "local" to the communities  served  by  the  cable
system (see "Regulation -- Cable Television").

           The  Copyright  Act  also provides a similar compulsory  license  for
satellite  services.   Legislation adopted in the 104th  Congress  extended  the
satellite  compulsory  license for five years, raised the  fees  paid  to  carry
broadcast  signals, and, beginning in 1996, requires the fees to be set  through
negotiations  and  binding arbitration rather than by law, taking  into  account
fair  market  value.   The  law  also  includes  a  provision  eliminating   the
requirement  that  cable  operators pay compulsory  license  fees  for  stations
located  more  than  35  miles  away  but within  the  same  "Area  of  Dominant
Influence".

           FIRST SALE DOCTRINE.  The "First Sale" provision of the Copyright Act
provides that the owner of a legitimate copy of a copyrighted work may  rent  or
otherwise  use or dispose of that copy in such a manner as the owner  sees  fit.
The  First Sale doctrine does not apply to sound recordings or computer software
(other  than software made for a limited purpose computer, such as a video  game
platform), for which the Copyright Act vests a rental right (i.e., the right  to
control  the  rental  of  the  copy) in the copyright  holder.   The  repeal  or
limitation of the First Sale doctrine (or conversely, the creation of  a  rental
right)  for audiovisual works or for computer software made for limited  purpose
computers  would  have an adverse impact on the Company's home  video  business;
however, no such legislation is pending in Congress at the present time.

                                     I-15



Networks and Broadcasting

Networks

           MODIFICATION  OF FINAL JUDGMENT.  The Modification of Final  Judgment
(the "MFJ") is the consent decree pursuant to which AT&T was reorganized and was
required  to divest its local telephone service monopolies.  As a result,  seven
regional  holding companies ("RHCs") were formed (including NYNEX) comprised  of
operating companies within their regions (Bell Operating Companies, or  "BOCs").
In  addition, that portion of the continental United States served by  the  BOCs
was  divided  into  geographical areas termed Local Access and  Transport  Areas
("LATAs").   The  MFJ  restricts the RHCs, the BOCs and  their  affiliates  from
engaging  in  inter-LATA  telecommunications  services  and  from  manufacturing
telecommunications products.  As a result of NYNEX's investment in the  Company,
the  Company  could  arguably  be considered an affiliate  of  an  RHC  for  MFJ
purposes.   As  a  result, the Company transferred certain of its  Networks  and
Broadcasting  and other operations and properties to an affiliated entity  which
will  be consolidated into the Company for financial reporting purposes. Neither
the  transfer nor the operations of the affiliate as an entity separate from the
Company will have a material effect on the financial condition or the results of
operations  of the Company.  Should the MFJ restrictions be modified or  waived,
the  affiliate intends to retransfer such assets and operations to the  Company.
In  March  1995,  a    U.S. District Court ruled that Bell Atlantic  Corporation
("Bell  Atlantic"),  which is a BOC and therefore is subject  to  the  MFJ,  may
deliver  movies and television programming via satellite nationally, and cleared
the  way for Bell Atlantic to buy radio and television stations, as well  as  to
own cable systems outside its service area.

          1992 CABLE ACT.  (See "Cable Television" below)


Broadcasting

           Television and radio broadcasting are subject to the jurisdiction  of
the FCC pursuant to the Communications Act.

           THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT.  The Communications Act authorizes the FCC to
issue,  renew,  revoke  or  modify broadcast licenses;  to  regulate  the  radio
frequency, operating power and location of stations; to approve the transmitting
equipment  used by stations; to adopt rules and regulations necessary  to  carry
out  the  provisions of the Communications Act; and to impose certain  penalties
for violations of the Communications Act and the FCC's regulations governing the
day-to-day operations of television and radio stations.

           BROADCAST LICENSES.  Broadcast station licenses (both television  and
radio) are ordinarily granted for the maximum allowable period of five years  in
the  case  of television and seven years in the case of radio, and are renewable
for  additional five-year or seven-year periods upon application  and  approval.
Such  licenses  may  be  revoked  by  the FCC  for  serious  violations  of  its
regulations.   Petitions to deny renewal of a license or competing  applications
may  be  filed for the frequency used by a renewal applicant.  If a petition  to
deny  is filed, the FCC will determine whether renewal is in the public interest
based upon presentations made by the licensee and the petitioner.  On March  23,
1995,  the  Senate  Committee on Commerce, Science and  Transportation  approved
legislation  (the  "Commerce Committee Bill") which, among other  things,  would
lengthen  television  and radio station license terms  to  10  years  and  relax
ownership  restrictions with respect to aliens to the extent U.S.  ownership  of
broadcast  stations is permitted in the alien's home country.  It is  impossible
at  this time to predict whether the Commerce Committee Bill will become law  or
what form it will take.

           The licenses for the Company's television stations expire as follows:
WDCA-TV on October 1, 1996; KSLA-TV on June 1, 1997; WKBD-TV on October 1, 1997;
KMOV-TV  on February 1, 1998; each of KRRT-TV, KTXA-TV and KTXH-TV on August  1,
1998;  each of WVIT-TV and WSBK-TV on April 1, 1999; each of WNYT-TV and WHEC-TV
on  June 1, 1999; and WTXF-TV on August 1, 1999.  The Company's licenses for its
radio  stations expire as follows:  WMZQ- AM/FM, WCPT-AM and WJZW-FM on  October
1,  1995;  WLTI-FM on October 1, 1996; WLIT-FM on December 1, 1996; KYSR-FM  and
KXEZ-FM on December 1, 1997; each of KBSG-AM/FM and KNDD-FM on February 1, 1998;
and  WLTW-FM on June 1, 1998.  The Company will apply for renewal of and expects
that the licenses which expire in 1995 will be renewed.

                                     I-16



           The  Communications Act prohibits the assignment of a license or  the
transfer  of  control  of  a license without prior approval  of  the  FCC.   The
Communications Act also provides that no license may be held by a corporation if
(1) any officer or director is an alien or (2) more than 20% of the voting stock
is  owned  of record or voted by aliens or is subject to control by aliens.   In
addition, no corporation may hold the voting stock of another corporation owning
broadcast  licenses  if  any  of  the  officers  or  directors  of  such  parent
corporation  are  aliens or more than 25% of the voting  stock  of  such  parent
corporation  is owned of record or voted by aliens or is subject to  control  by
aliens,  unless  specific FCC authorization is obtained.  The FCC  is  currently
reviewing  these regulations and legislation, such as the Commerce Committee
Bill, has been introduced  to  relax  the foreign  ownership  restrictions.   
The  outcome  of  the  FCC  review  and  the legislative proposal is uncertain.

           MUST  CARRY/RETRANSMISSION  CONSENT.  The  1992  Cable  Act  contains
provisions  which  grant  certain "Must Carry" rights  to  commercial  broadcast
television  stations that are "local" to communities served by a  cable  system,
including  the right to elect either to require a cable operator  to  carry  the
station pursuant to the Must Carry provisions of the Act or to require that  the
cable operator secure the station's "Retransmission Consent" on a negotiated 
basis before  the  station can be carried (i.e., retransmitted) on the  cable  
system. (See "Cable Television" below)

            RESTRICTIONS   ON  BROADCAST  ADVERTISING.   In  past  Congressional
sessions,  committees of Congress examined proposals for legislation that  would
eliminate  or  severely  restrict advertising of beer and  wine  either  through
direct  restrictions  on  content or through elimination  or  reduction  of  the
deductibility  of expenses for such advertising under federal  tax  laws.   Such
proposals  generated  substantial opposition, but it is  possible  that  similar
proposals  will be reintroduced in Congress.  The elimination of  all  beer  and
wine  advertising would have an adverse effect on the revenues of the  Company's
television and radio stations.

           OWNERSHIP  LIMITATIONS.  The FCC has placed limits on the  number  of
radio  and  television  stations in which one entity can  own  an  "attributable
interest".   The  Company currently owns radio stations  below  those  ownership
limits and owns the maximum  permitted number of television stations.  The FCC 
has adopted a  number of  rules designed to prevent monopoly or undue 
concentration of control of  the media of mass communications.  In 1994, 
FCC regulations which permitted a single entity to have an "attributable" 
ownership or management interest in up to 18 AM and  18  FM  stations  
nationwide were increased to 20 AM and  20  FM  stations, including  
multiple  AM and/or FM stations licensed to serve  the  same  market.
Minority-controlled broadcasters can own an additional three  AM  and  three  FM
stations.   The  limit on the number of such multiple stations in  a  particular
market which a single entity may own or control depends upon the total number of
AM  and/or  FM stations in that market; provided that, at the time of  purchase,
the combined audience share of such multiple stations does not exceed 25%.  With
respect  to  television, the FCC's rules limit the maximum  number  of  stations
nationwide  in  which  one  entity  can  have  an  "attributable"  ownership  or
management  interest, to that number which serves up to 25% of  U.S.  television
households, provided, however, that (except in limited circumstances) the  total
number  of stations will not exceed 12.  The FCC also permits radio stations  to
broker  the  programming and sales inventories of their stations to other  radio
stations  within  the  same area, subject to various restrictions,  so  long  as
ultimate  operational  control and ownership is retained and  exercised  by  the
licensee.  Such brokerage agreements function, as a practical matter, to  effect
a  consolidation of competitive radio broadcast stations within a market in much
the  same  manner  as  multiple ownership of radio  facilities  by  one  entity.
Similar brokerage agreements among television stations are being implemented  in
a  smaller  number  of  markets than in radio and are not  now  subject  to  any
explicit FCC regulations.

                                     I-17



           The  FCC's  ownership limitations also prohibit a single entity  from
owning  multiple "same service" (e.g., TV, AM or FM) stations licensed to  serve
different  markets  if  the  broadcast signals of such  stations  overlap  to  a
specified  measurable  degree.  The maximum number of  commonly  owned  stations
serving  neighboring  markets whose signals can overlap  is  the  same  as  that
maximum number of commonly owned stations which an entity can own or control  in
a single market.  Additional ownership prohibitions preclude common ownership in
the same market of (i) television stations and cable systems; (ii) television or
radio  stations  and  newspapers of general circulation;  and  (iii)  radio  and
television stations.  Radio-television cross-ownership prohibitions are  subject
to  waiver by the FCC on a case-by-case basis.  The Company operates two AM  and
two  FM  stations  as  well  as a television station  serving  Washington,  D.C.
Ownership  of  the  television  station (WDCA) was  obtained  when  the  Company
acquired  majority ownership of Paramount Communications on March 11, 1994.   
Pursuant  to  the FCC's  order consenting to the transfer of control of the 
broadcast licenses  of Paramount Communications  to the Company, the Company 
has undertaken to dispose of one  AM  and one  FM radio station serving 
Washington, D.C. no later than September 11, 1995. The FCC's previous 
prohibition on a national television network's (ABC, CBS, and NBC) owning 
or operating cable systems has been repealed but with certain limits as  to  
the  number of homes which network-owned cable systems  can  pass  on  a
national and local basis.

           The  FCC  is currently reviewing the broadcast ownership regulations,
and  the Commerce Committee Bill proposes to increase the audience share ceiling
from  25%  to  35%.  The extent to which these regulations will be  repealed  or
modified is uncertain.


           HDTV.   In  1993,  the FCC adopted a technological standard  for  the
transmission  of  high  definition television ("HDTV"), an  advanced  television
system  which  enhances picture and sound quality, as well as  the  methods  and
timetable  for  implementation of an HDTV transmission standard by broadcasters.
The  means  by  which  that transmission standard will be  implemented  and  the
development of technologies such as digital compression  will  have an  economic
and competitive impact on broadcasting and cable operations.  The Company cannot
predict  the  effect of implementation of these technologies on its  operations.
The  FCC  has stated its intention not to disadvantage broadcasters  and  it  is
expected that any HDTV standard which is ultimately adopted will be fashioned so
as to accommodate the needs of broadcasters vis-a-vis competitive video delivery
technologies.  The FCC has already determined that TV stations will be given  up
to  six  years to implement HDTV from commencement of the transition period  and
that stations which do not convert to the HDTV standard will lose their licenses
to  broadcast at the end of a proposed 15-year period from commencement  of  the
transition  period.  The cost of converting to HDTV will  not  have  a  material
effect  on  the  Company.   Broadcasters have asked Congress  and  the  FCC  for
permission  to  use  broadcast stations' respective  forthcoming  HDTV  spectrum
assignments for some non-broadcasting purposes, such as advanced paging and data
delivery.   The  Commerce  Committee Bill includes some  expanded  spectrum  use
authority, provided that broadcasters compensate the FCC.

Entertainment

           The Company's first-run, network and other production operations  and
its  distribution of off-network, first-run and other programs in  domestic  and
foreign  syndication  are  not  directly  regulated  by  legislation.   However,
existing  and proposed rules and regulations of the FCC applicable to  broadcast
networks,  individual  broadcast stations and cable could affect  the  Company's
Entertainment businesses.

           FINANCIAL INTEREST AND SYNDICATION RULES.  The financial interest and
syndication rules ("finsyn rules") were adopted by the FCC in 1970.  These rules
significantly  limited  the role of broadcast television networks  in  broadcast
television  program  syndication.   The financial  interest  rule  prohibited  a
network  from  acquiring a financial or proprietary right  or  interest  in  the
exhibition  (other than its own broadcast network exhibition),  distribution  or
other  commercial  use  in connection with the broadcasting  of  any  television
program of which it is not the sole producer.  The syndication rule prohibited a
network from syndicating programming domestically to television stations for 
non-network exhibition and precluded a network  from  reserving  any  rights  to
participate  in  income  derived  from domestic broadcast  syndication  or  from
foreign broadcast syndication where the network was not the sole producer.   For
the purposes of these rules, a broadcast network was defined as any entity which
offers an interconnected program service on a regular basis for 15 or more hours
per week to at least 25 affiliated television stations in 10 or more states.

                                     I-18



           In  1993, the FCC modified the finsyn rules effective as of  June  5,
1993, although ABC, CBS, and NBC could not commence operating under the modified
finsyn rules until November 10, 1993 when the antitrust consent decrees to which
they are subject were modified to eliminate certain restrictions by an order  of
the  U.S.  District Court for the Central District of California.  The  modified
rules  will expire in November 1995, absent an affirmative FCC action  retaining
or  further  modifying  them.  The FCC is to initiate  a  final  review  of  the
modified  rules  six  months prior to their November 1995  expiration  date  and
proponents  of  their continuation have the burden of proving  that  the  public
interest  requires their continued retention.  The Company is unable to  predict
what action the FCC will take when it reviews the rule.  Elimination of the rule
may  have  an  adverse affect on the Company's distribution  and  production  of
network prime time programming.

          PRIME TIME ACCESS RULE.  The Prime Time Access Rule ("PTAR") prohibits
network affiliates in the top 50 markets (designated by the FCC based on  survey
data)  from exhibiting network or off-network programming during more than three
out of the four prime time hours, with certain limited exceptions.  The Decision
provided  that  first-run programming produced by a network will  be  considered
network programming for this purpose.

           In  October  1994, the FCC began a review on whether PTAR  should  be
modified,  repealed, or retained.  Certain programmers have sought repeal  while
others  are  seeking modification to permit only the exhibition  of  off-network
programming.

           The  Company  strongly supports PTAR and has launched  an  aggressive
campaign, along with other parties, to retain PTAR intact.  The Company believes
that  PTAR  will play an important role in helping emerging networks,  including
UPN,  and enables independent producers and television stations to compete  with
the  networks.   Modification or elimination of PTAR could affect the  Company's
first-run and other distribution activities and hamper the development of UPN.

           ANTITRUST.  The Company, through PARAMOUNT PICTURES, is subject to  a
consent  decree, entered in 1948, which contains restrictions on certain  motion
picture trade practices in the United States.

           EUROPEAN UNION DIRECTIVE.  In October 1989, the European Union ("EU",
then the EC and sometimes referred to as the EC) directed each of the 12 
European Community member countries to adopt broadcast quota regulations based 
on its  guidelines  by October  3,  1991. The EU is currently considering 
amendments to its  Television Without Frontiers directive.  In March 1995, the 
Executive Commision of  the  EU approved  revisions  to  the directive, which 
will increase  the  discrimination against  non-European programming; however, 
at this time, it  is  impossible  to predict  what changes will be adopted by 
the EU, or to predict their  impact  on the  Company's  theatrical 
distribution and television  syndication  businesses. Each  of MTV EUROPE, 
NICKELODEON U.K. and VH-1 in the U.K are in compliance with the  EU  broadcast 
quotas and the Company does not believe that these businesses would be 
affected by the adoption of such proposals.

Video and Music Distribution

            FRANCHISING.   Certain  states,  the  United  States  Federal  Trade
Commission  and certain foreign jurisdictions require a franchisor  to  transmit
specified  disclosure statements to potential owners before issuing a franchise.
Additionally,  some states and foreign jurisdictions require the  franchisor  to
register  its franchise before its issuance.  The Company believes the  offering
circulars used to market its franchises comply with the Federal Trade Commission
guidelines  and all applicable laws of states in the United States  and  foreign
jurisdictions regulating the offering and issuance of franchises.  The Company's
home  video  and  music retailing businesses, other than the franchising  aspect
thereof,  are  not  generally subject to any government  regulation  other  than
customary laws and local zoning and permit requirements.

                                     I-19


Cable Television

Federal Regulation

           1992  CABLE  ACT.   On October 5, 1992, Congress  enacted  the  Cable
Television  Consumer  Protection and Competition Act of 1992  (the  "1992  Cable
Act"),  substantially  amending  the  regulatory  framework  under  which  cable
television systems have operated since the Communications Act was amended by the
Cable  Communications Policy Act of 1984 (the "1984 Act").  The FCC, through its
rules and regulations, began implementing the requirements of the 1992 Cable Act
in 1993.  The following is a summary of certain significant issues:

                 Rate Regulation.  Rate regulations adopted in April 1993 by the
FCC (the "April 1993 Regulations") established a "benchmark" formula used to set
a  cable  operator's  "initial  permitted rate" for  regulated  tiers  of  cable
service.   Cable  systems  whose rates exceeded the  applicable  benchmark  were
required  to  reduce their rates either to the benchmark or by  10%  from  those
charged  on September 30, 1992, whichever reduction was less.  These regulations
also established the prices that an operator may charge for subscriber equipment
and  installation services, based on the operator's actual cost plus  an  11.25%
return.

                 On  February  22, 1994, the FCC adopted additional  rules  (the
"February 1994 Regulations") that:
(1)  replaced  the  April 1993 Regulations' 10% rollback provision  with  a  17%
reduction of regulated tier rates; (2) adopted interim standards governing 
"cost-of  service" proceedings pursuant to which a cable operator may attempt to
prove that its costs of providing regulated service justify initial permitted
rates that are higher than those produced under the benchmark approach; and  (3)
established  a regulatory scheme to adjust initial permitted rates on  a  going-
forward  basis  for  certain  "external"  cost  increases  exceeding  inflation,
providing  (among other things) a pass-through of and 7.5% mark-up for increases
in  an  operator's  programming expenses.  The February  1994  Regulations  also
adopted  an  elaborate  multi-factor  test for  determining  whether  collective
offerings  of "a la carte" channels (which channels may be sold individually  on
an  unregulated basis) are to be treated as regulated tiers.  The February  1994
Regulations  govern  rates in effect as of May 15, 1994, while  the  April  1993
Regulations remain applicable to rates that were in effect between September  1,
1993 and May 14, 1994.

                 On November 10, 1994, the FCC adopted new "going forward" rules
("November 1994 Regulations") that increased the mark-up for channels  added  to
regulated  tiers  (other than the basic tier), established a  more  permissively
regulated new product tier ("NPT"), and otherwise tightened FCC regulation  of
collective offerings of a la carte channels.  These new rules allow operators to
pass  through to subscribers the costs, plus a 20-cent per channel mark-up,  for
channels  newly  added to regulated tiers (other than the basic tier).   Through
1996, however, operators are subject to an aggregate cap of $1.50 (no more  than
$1.20 of which may be mark-up) on the amount that they may increase their retail
rates  for cable program service tier rates due to channel additions.  In  1997,
operators will be entitled to an additional 20-cent per channel mark-up and will
no  longer  be subject to a license fee cap.  The FCC also established  NPTs  to
provide  operators broad pricing and packaging flexibility so long as  operators
preserve  the fundamental nature of their preexisting regulated tiers.   At  the
same  time,  the FCC reversed its policy with respect to collective a  la  carte
offerings (that do not qualify for unregulated NPT treatment) and generally held
that  such collective offerings would be treated as regulated tiers (other  than
NPTs).   In  addition, the FCC proposed to eliminate the current 7.5 %  operator
mark-up  on  increases in a program service's license fees.  The Company,  along
with other cable industry interests, has opposed this proposal.

                 Several parties, including the Company and other cable industry
interests,  have  continued  to  challenge other  elements  of  the  FCC's  rate
regulations.  The Commerce Committee Bill would eliminate rate regulation of (i)
all regulated tiers (other than the basic tier) except for those cable operators
whose  rates  substantially  exceed the national average,  and  (ii)  all  cable
systems which are subject to telco video competition.  The Company is unable  to
predict  the  timing  or outcome of any such pending reconsideration  petitions,
judicial appeals or proposed legislation.

                                     I-20


                  The  implementation  of  the  April  1993  and  February  1994
Regulations has had a negative effect on the Cable Television segment's revenues
and  earnings from operations.  The reduction in revenues in 1994 was  partially
offset  by customer growth and subsequent permitted rate increases.  On a  going
forward  basis,  the November 1994 Regulations will mitigate a  portion  of  the
adverse  impact  of  any reduction in revenues of the Cable Television  segment,
although  the  Company  cannot  predict  the  effect  of  these  rules  or   any
reconsideration proceedings regarding these rules on the license fees  paid  to,
or the penetration of, program services such as those owned by the Company.  For
example, in those systems that have been rebuilt to expand channel capacity, one
or  two  programming services added subsequent to the February 1994  Regulations
have supported rate increases for the Satellite Value Package tier; in addition,
Viacom Cable has launched five channel NPTs in various systems (see "Business --
Cable Television -- Cable Operations").  Further, Viacom Cable has made cost-of-
service filings in two systems.  While the Company cannot predict the outcome of
these  filings, it believes that both cost-of-service proceedings justify  rates
in  excess of those calculated using the April 1993 Regulations and the February
1994 Regulations.

           Vertical  Integration.   Certain pricing and other  restrictions  are
imposed  on  vertically integrated cable programmers (such as the Company)  with
respect to their dealings with multichannel distributors of programming, such as
cable  systems, SMATV systems, MMDS operators and TVRO and DBS distributors  (as
defined  in "Business--Competition-- Cable Television").  The FCC's implementing
regulations governing access by multichannel distributors to the programming  of
vertically  integrated cable programmers limit the extent to which a  vertically
integrated  cable  programmer can differentiate in pricing or  other  terms  and
conditions   of   carriage   between   and  among   multichannel   distributors.
Multichannel distributors may file a complaint with the FCC if they believe that
a   vertically  integrated  cable  programmer  has  not  complied   with   these
regulations.   To date, no complaints have been filed against the Company.   The
FCC's  implementing  regulations also limit the number of channels  on  a  cable
system  which  may be used to carry the programming of such system's  affiliated
(vertically integrated) cable programmers.  These regulations provide  generally
that  no  more  than 40% of such a system's channels can be used  to  carry  the
programming  of  the  system's  affiliated  cable  programmers.   These  channel
occupancy limits apply only up to 75 channels of a given system.  The  FCC  also
considered whether limits should be placed on a multichannel distributor's right
to  participate in the production or creation of programming, and concluded that
no such limits are appropriate at this time.  The FCC's implementing regulations
regarding  channel  occupancy  limits  are  subject  to  pending  petitions  for
reconsideration at the FCC.

           Must  Carry/Retransmission Consent.  Commercial  television  stations
which  are "local" to communities served by a cable system can elect to  require
either  Must Carry or Retransmission Consent.  In addition, a cable  system  may
not  carry  any commercial non-satellite-delivered television station  which  is
"distant"  to  communities served by such system or any  radio  station  without
obtaining  the  consent of such station for such retransmission;  however,  such
television and radio stations do not have Must Carry rights.  Such stations  may
require  payment in consideration for Retransmission Consent.  The  Company  has
negotiated  retransmission rights for a number of commercial stations  which  it
carries.   Some of these agreements are on an interim basis and may be  canceled
by  the stations.  The Company carries other stations pursuant to their exercise
of  their Must Carry rights.  Local non-commercial television stations have Must
Carry  rights, but may not elect Retransmission Consent.  The Must  Carry  Rules
were  challenged by cable program services and cable system operators.  In April
1993,  a District of Columbia three-judge court upheld the rules against a First
Amendment attack.  In June 1994, the U.S. Supreme Court held that the rules were
content-neutral  rather  than unconstitutional, vacating  the  District  Court's
decision and remanding the case back to the District Court for determination  of
the  impact  of  such  rules on the broadcast and cable industries.   The  rules
remain  in  effect pending the decision of the District Court on  remand.   (See
"Broadcasting" above)

           Buy  Through to Premium Services.  Pursuant to the 1992 Cable Act,  a
cable  system may not require subscribers to purchase any tier of service  other
than  the  basic  service  tier in order to obtain other  tiers  of  service  or
services offered by the cable operator on a per channel (e.g., premium services)
or  pay-per-view  basis.  A cable system which is not now fully addressable  and
which  cannot utilize other means to facilitate access to all of its programming
will  have  up  to  10  years to fully comply with this  provision  through  the
implementation  of  fully addressable technology.  The Company's  cable  systems
have already begun to implement compliance.

           Among  other  things, the 1992 Cable Act and the  FCC's  implementing
regulations  also:   (i) with certain exceptions, require a  three-year  holding
period  before  the  resale  of  cable systems; (ii)  provide  that  franchising
authorities cannot unreasonably refuse to grant competing franchises (all of the
Company's  current  franchises are non-exclusive); (iii) require  that  the  FCC
study the cost and benefits of issuing regulations with respect to compatibility
between  cable system equipment and consumer electronics such as VCRs and  issue
such  regulations as may be appropriate; and (iv) facilitate the manner in which
third parties can lease channel capacity from cable systems and provide that the
maximum rates which a cable system can charge for leased channel capacity may be
set  by  the  FCC.   Pursuant to the 1992 Cable Act,  the  FCC  adopted  minimum
customer  service  standards and also determined the circumstances  under  which
local franchising authorities may impose higher standards.

                                     I-21


           Lawsuits have been filed challenging various provisions of  the  1992
Cable  Act  including  the provisions relating to rate regulation,  Must  Carry,
Retransmission Consent, the pricing and other restrictions imposed on vertically
integrated  cable  programmers with respect to their dealings with  multichannel
programming  distributors, and the mandated availability of cable  channels  for
leased access and PEG programming.  If enacted, the Commerce Committee Bill  may
affect the status of such lawsuits.

           VIDEO  DIALTONE REGULATIONS.  A series of recent U.S. district  court
decisions  in  Alabama,  the  District  of Columbia,  Illinois,  Washington  and
Virginia  have  declared unconstitutional and have enjoined  the  Communications
Act's  ban on the direct provision of video programming by a telco in its  local
service area.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth and Ninth Circuits  have
affirmed  the district court rulings brought before them on appeal.  Even  prior
to these court rulings, the FCC had reinterpreted this statutory ban in its 1992
"video dialtone"  decision, authorizing a broadened role for telco participation
in  video  distribution. The VDT policy is being challenged in  court  by  cable
interests  as violating the Communications Act.  It is also being challenged  by
telephone interests as not being liberal enough.  The policy permits in-service-
area  delivery  of  video  programming by a telco and exempts  telcos  from  the
Communications  Act's franchising requirements so long as their  facilities  are
capable of two-way video and are used for transmission of video programming on a
common  carrier  basis, i.e., use of the facilities must  be  available  to  all
programmers  and  program packagers on a non-discriminatory,  first-come  first-
served basis.  Telcos are also permitted to provide to facilities users 
additional "enhanced" services such as video gateways, video processing 
services,  customer premises equipment and billing and collection.  These can 
be provided on a  non-common  carrier  basis. In January 1995, in response  to
the  court  rulings discussed   above striking down the underlying statutory 
ban, the FCC  issued  a Notice  of  Proposed Rulemaking seeking to craft rules 
to govern telco provision of  video  programming  directly to subscribers.  
The FCC's  pending  proceeding addresses  the extent to which regulations 
applicable to common carriers  and/or regulations  applicable  to cable 
operators should govern  telcos  that  provide video  programming directly to 
subscribers over their own VDT systems.  The  FCC has  already  approved 
several VDT construction applications for  market  trials and/or  limited 
commercial deployment and has granted, in part, the first tariff filed to 
govern the rates and terms of a VDT offering.  In response to the court rulings 
noted above, the FCC's more recent VDT authorizations have also allowed
telcos  to  serve  as  program packagers on their VDT platforms.   The  Commerce
Committee  Bill  also contemplates a relatively permissive framework  for  telco
entry  into cable.  It is expected that bills will be formally introduced  later
this year.  At present, state and/or local laws do not prohibit cable television
companies  from engaging in certain kinds of telephony business in many  states.
The  Commerce  Committee Bill proposes to generally eliminate  state  and  local
entry   barriers  which  currently  either  prohibit  or  restrict  an  entity's
(including  a  cable  operator's) capacity to offer telecommunications  services
(including  telephone  exchange  service) in  competition  with  telcos  and  to
interconnect on a non-discriminatory basis with telcos and utilize certain telco
facilities  in  order to provide service in competition with a telco  after  the
date  of  enactment of such legislation.  The Company cannot predict the outcome
or  impact  of  these  legislative and regulatory efforts although  the  Company
anticipates  that  its  program  services  could  benefit  from  the   increased
distribution  opportunities afforded by broadened telco entry into  multichannel
video  distribution.  If the pending legislation does not become  law,  and  the
various  appellate  courts uphold the unconstitutionality of the  Communications
Act's  restrictions  on telco video programming, the telcos  have  stated  their
intention to immediately enter the video programming business.

           FCC MINORITY TAX CERTIFICATE  On January 20, 1995, the Company agreed
to  sell  its cable television systems to a partnership which is minority-owned.
Under the minority-ownership tax deferral rules adopted by the FCC in 1978,  the
Company  is entitled to receive a tax certificate pursuant to which the  Company
would be able to defer capital gains tax on the gain from the sale, provided the
Company  reinvests the net proceeds of the sale in qualifying  media  properties
within  two  years of closing or reduces its tax basis in existing assets.   The
U.S.  House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate have each approved a  similar
version of legislation that would eliminate such tax consequences retroactive to
January 17, 1995.  The Company's current agreement to sell its cable systems  is
contingent upon receipt of the FCC tax certificate.

                                     I-22



State and Local Regulation.

            State  and local regulation of cable is exercised primarily  through
the  franchising process under which a company enters into a franchise agreement
with  the  appropriate franchising authority and agrees to abide  by  applicable
ordinances.  The 1992 Cable Act permits the FCC to broaden the regulatory powers
of  the  state and local franchising authorities, particularly in the  areas  of
rate  regulation  and  customer  service standards.   (See  "Cable  Television--
Federal Regulation" above)

           Under  the 1984 Act, franchising authorities may control only  cable-
related  equipment and facilities requirements and may not require the  carriage
of  specific  program  services.  However, federal law (as  implemented  by  FCC
regulations)  mandates  the  carriage  of  both  commercial  and  non-commercial
television  broadcast stations "local" to the area in which a  cable  system  is
located. (see "Cable Television -- Must Carry/Retransmission Consent" above)

           The  1984  Act,  as amended, guarantees cable operators  due  process
rights  in  franchise renewal proceedings and provides that franchises  will  be
renewed unless the cable operator fails to meet one or more enumerated statutory
criteria.   The  Company's current franchises expire on  various  dates  through
2017.   During  the  five-year period 1995 through 1999,  franchises  having  an
aggregate  of  approximately 369,420 customers (at  December  31,  1994)    will
expire unless renewed.  The Company expects its franchises to be renewed.

Item 2.  Properties

           The  Company  maintains its world headquarters at 1515 Broadway,  New
York, New York, where it rents approximately one million square feet for 
executive offices  and certain of its operating divisions.  The lease runs to  
2010,  with four  renewal  options for five years each.  The lease also grants 
the  Company options  for  additional  space  and a right  of  first  
negotiation  for  other available space in the building.  The Company also 
leases approximately  484,000 square  feet  of office space at 1633 Broadway, 
New York, New York, which  lease runs  to  2010,  and approximately 237,000 
square feet of office space  at  1230 Avenue  of  the  Americas, New York, New 
York, which lease runs to  2009,  which leases  contain  options  to renew, 
among other terms.   The  Company  owns  the PARAMOUNT PICTURES studio at 5555 
Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California, which consists  of  approximately  
63 acres containing sound  stages,  administrative, technical  and  dressing  
room  structures, screening  theatres,  machinery  and equipment  facilities,  
plus  a  back lot and  parking  lot.   PARAMOUNT  PARKS' operations  in  
the U.S. include approximately 1,640 acres owned and  295  acres leased  
and in Canada include approximately 200 acres owned and 97 acres leased.
The  Company owns the Blockbuster Entertainment Group headquarters at 200  South
Andrews  Avenue,  Fort  Lauderdale, Florida,  which  consists  of  approximately
148,000  square  feet  of office space and regional and district  offices.   The
BLOCKBUSTER retail and distribution operations consist of approximately 55 owned
properties, aggregating approximately 361,000 square feet, and approximately 
2,833 leased locations, aggregating approximately 19.4 million square feet.
Facilities  within the Publishing segment (other than executive offices at 1230 
Avenue of the  Americas described above) include approximately 7,653,000 square
feet of space, of  which approximately  5,070,000 square feet are leased.  
The facilities  are  used  for warehouse,  distribution  and  administrative 
functions.   The  Company's  cable television  systems  include  a  combination
of owned  and  leased  premises  in California,  Ohio,  Oregon, Tennessee and 
Washington  (the  location  of  Viacom Cable's franchises) and each system's 
electronic distribution equipment.

          The Company also owns and leases office, studio and warehouse space in
various  cities in the U.S., Canada and several countries around the  world  for
its  businesses.  The Company considers its properties adequate for its  present
needs.   The Company also owns approximately 1,770 acres of undeveloped land  in
Southeast Florida.

                                     I-23



Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

          On August 18, 1994, the District Court in and for Dallas County, Texas
entered  a  judgment  in  favor  of  the plaintiffs  in  the  action  Howell  v.
Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation et al. (Cause No. 91-10193-M, now  pending
on  appeal  before  the Dallas Court of Appeals as Cause No. 05-94-01823).   The
defendants include Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation ("BEC"), which has been
merged  into  the Company, and Video Superstores Master Limited  Partnership,  a
dissolved limited partnership that was indirectly controlled by BEC at the  time
of  its dissolution.  The judgment is based upon plaintiffs' claims of breach of
fiduciary  duty, fraud, conspiracy, breach of contract and tortious interference
with  contract  and  claims under Texas partnership law in connection  with  the
defendants'  treatment, and ultimate acquisition, of plaintiff's interest  in  a
limited  partnership which owned three Blockbuster stores.   The  court  entered
judgment  against  all  defendants, jointly  and  severally  in  the  amount  of
$10,884,003  as  compensatory damages, $3,791,172 as pre-judgment  interest  and
attorneys'  fees  in  the amount of $175,000.  In addition,  the  Court  entered
judgment  totaling  $108,840,030 for exemplary  damages  and  ordered  that  the
plaintiffs  recover post-judgment interest at the rate of 10% per annum  on  all
amounts awarded from the date of judgment until paid.  The Company believes that
substantial  grounds exist for the vacation of the judgment or  its  substantial
reduction and is vigorously prosecuting an appeal.

           On  September  27,  1994,  an  action captioned  Murphy,  et  al.  v.
Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation, et al. (Cause No. 94-10051-M)  was  filed
in the District Court in and for Dallas County, Texas by plaintiffs representing
the  two  other  limited  partners of the plaintiff  in  the  Howell  litigation
described above.  Plaintiffs assert the same basic causes of action as in Howell
and  have claimed they are entitled to actual damages in excess of $240  million
and  punitive damages in excess of $1 billion.  The Company believes that it has
substantial defenses to these claims, including, among others, that  the  claims
are  barred  by the statute of limitations and by releases entered into  by  the
plaintiffs,  and  intends  to vigorously defend the claims.   Discovery  in  the
Murphy  action has been stayed pending the outcome of the appeal in  the  Howell
action.

           Stockholder  Litigation.  Four putative class actions were  filed  by
alleged  Spelling  shareholders in November 1994.  By Order dated  February  15,
1995,  the  four  actions  were consolidated under the caption  In  re  Spelling
Shareholder  Litigation,  Master File 94-8764 (AH), Circuit  Court,  Palm  Beach
County, Florida.  Defendants in all actions include Spelling, the Company and
the members of the Board of Directors of Spelling.   All complaints  alleged
that  the Company intends to  acquire  the  23%  shares  of Spelling  it does
not currently hold for inadequate consideration and in  breach of  the
defendants' fiduciary duties.  Two of the actions also alleged that  the
acquisition of the Company's 77% interest in Spelling was done improperly so  as
to  avoid  payment of a control premium to the shareholders.  Plaintiffs  sought
declaratory  and injunctive relief preventing the alleged acquisition  plan  and
damages.  The Company believes that plaintiffs' allegations are speculative  and
without merit and intends to defend the claims vigorously.   The plaintiffs have
been directed to serve a single consolidated class action complaint to supersede
all existing complaints and to move for class certification on or before May 18,
l995.

          Antitrust Matters.  On September 23, 1993, the Company filed an action
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York styled
Viacom  International Inc. v. Tele-Communications, Inc. et al., Case No. 93  Civ
6658.   The  complaint  (as amended on November 9, 1993) alleges  violations  of
Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, Section 7 of the Clayton Act, Section 12 of
the  Cable Act, and New York's Donnelly Act, and tortious interference,  against
all  defendants,  and  a  breach of contract claim against  certain  defendants,
including  Tele-Communications, Inc. ("TCI").  The  claims  for  relief  in  the
complaint  are  based in significant part on allegations that  defendants  exert
monopoly   power  in  the  U.S.  cable  industry  through  their  control   over
approximately  one in four of all cable households in the U.S.  In  addition  to
other   relief,   the  Company  seeks  injunctive  relief  against   defendants'
anticompetitive  conduct  and damages in an amount to be  determined  at  trial,
including trebled damages and attorneys' fees.

                On   January  20,  1995,  the  Company  announced  that  it  had
provisionally  agreed  to  settle this action, subject  to  certain  conditions,
including, among other things, the effectiveness of a new affiliation  agreement
covering  TCI's  long-term carriage of SHOWTIME and THE MOVIE  CHANNEL  and  the
consummation  of  the  sale  of  the Company's  cable  television  systems  (See
"Business  --  Cable  Television").  The action is currently  suspended  pending
satisfaction of certain conditions which, if satisfied, would lead to settlement
of the action.

                                     I-24



           MTV  EUROPE is engaged in a number of related litigations  in  Europe
contesting  the  legality  of certain joint licensing activities  by  the  major
worldwide  record  companies (See "Business -- Competition  --  Networks").   In
1992,  MTV EUROPE initiated a proceeding before the EC, seeking the dissolution,
under  Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty of Rome, of the record companies'  joint
licensing  organizations -- Video Performance Limited ("VPL") and  International
Federation  of Phonogram and Videogram Producers ("IFPI") -- through  which  the
record  companies  exclusively license rights to exhibit music  video  clips  on
television  in  Europe  and elsewhere.  In 1994, the EC issued  a  Statement  of
Objections  which stated that the collective licensing negotiations of  VPL  and
IFPI,   and  their  major  record  company  members,  constituted  an   unlawful
restriction  of trade under Article 85, and reserved its right to address  abuse
of monopoly power under Article 86.  The VPL/IFPI and major labels were afforded
an  opportunity to respond at a hearing in June 1994, and it is anticipated that
in 1995 the EC will issue a decision or take steps toward alternative resolution
of  these  issues.   MTV EUROPE has been licensed to continue to  exhibit  music
video clips during the EC proceeding under an EC-assisted interim agreement with
VPL and IFPI, which expires in July 1995.

           In  December 1993, MTV EUROPE commenced a separate proceeding  before
the EC, challenging the operation of Viva, a German language music service owned
by  four  of  the  five  major record companies, as an example of illegal cartel
activity.

           In  a  separate  U.K.  high  court  action,  MTV  EUROPE  is  seeking
reimbursement of license fees paid to VPL and IFPI and/or damages on the grounds
that  these  fees  were  unlawfully extracted by the  record  companies'  cartel
organizations.

           Certain subsidiaries of the Company from time to time receive  claims
from  federal  and  state environmental regulatory agencies and  other  entities
asserting  that  they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup  costs  and
related  damages arising out of  former operations.  While the outcome of  these
claims  cannot  be predicted with certainty, on the basis of its experience  and
the information currently available to it, the Company does not believe that the
claims  it  has  received will have a material adverse effect on  its  financial
condition  or results of operations (See "Item 6. Selected Financial  Data"  and
"Item  7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Results  of  Operations  and
Financial Condition.").

          The Company and various of its subsidiaries are parties to certain
other legal proceedings.  However, in the opinion of counsel, these proceedings
are not likely to result in judgments that will have a material adverse effect
on its financial condition or results of operations.

Financial Information About Industry Segments

           The  contribution  to revenues and earnings from operations  of  each
industry  segment  and  the identifiable assets attributable  to  each  industry
segment  for each of the last three years ending December 31, are set  forth  in
Note  12  to  the  Consolidated Financial Statements  of  the  Company  included
elsewhere herein.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations

           Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations for
each of the last three years ending December 31, is set forth in Notes 11 and 12
to  the  Consolidated  Financial Statements of the  Company  included  elsewhere
herein.

                                     I-25


Executive Officers of the Company

    Set forth below is certain information concerning the current executive 
officers of the Company, which information is hereby included in Part I of 
this report.



*    effective April 1, 1995
**  through March 31, 1995

           None of the executive officers of the Company  is related to any 
other executive officer or director by blood, marriage or adoption except that 
Brent D. Redstone and Shari Redstone,  Directors  of  the  Company,  are  the  
son   and daughter, respectively, of Sumner M. Redstone.

                                     I-26



           Mr.  Redstone has been a Director of the  Company
since  1986  and  Chairman of the  Board  since  1987.   Mr.
Redstone has served as President, Chief Executive Officer of
NAI  since  July  1967,  and  continues  to  serve  in  such
capacity; he has also served as the Chairman of the Board of
NAI  since 1986.  Mr. Redstone became a Director of Spelling
in  1994.   He served as the first Chairman of the Board  of
the National Association of Theater Owners, and is currently
a  member  of the  Executive Committee of that organization.
During the Carter Administration, Mr. Redstone was appointed
a  member of the Presidential Advisory Committee on the Arts
for  the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and,
in  1984,  he  was  appointed  a  Director  of  the  Kennedy
Presidential  Library Foundation.  Since 1982, Mr.  Redstone
has  been  a member of the faculty of Boston University  Law
School, where he has lectured in entertainment law,  and  in
1994,  he  accepted a proposal from Harvard  Law  School  to
lecture,  as well as a Visiting Professorship from  Brandeis
University.   In 1944, Mr. Redstone graduated  from  Harvard
University  and,  in 1947, received an L.L.B.  from  Harvard
University School of Law.  Upon graduation, he served as Law
Secretary with the United States Court of Appeals, and  then
as  a  Special  Assistant  to  the  United  States  Attorney
General.

           Mr.  Huizenga has been Vice Chairman of the Board
since  September  1994 and a Director of the  Company  since
October 1993.  He served as Chairman of the Board and  Chief
Executive  Officer  of  Blockbuster  from  April   1987   to
September   1994,  having  been  elected   a   director   of
Blockbuster in February 1987.  Mr. Huizenga also  served  as
President of Blockbuster from April 1987 to June  1988.   He
is  Chairman  of  the Board of Spelling and  a  Director  of
Discovery Zone.  From May 1984 to present, Mr. Huizenga  has
been  an  investor  in  other businesses  and  is  the  sole
stockholder and Chairman of the Board of Huizenga  Holdings,
Inc., a holding and management company with various business
interests.  In connection with these business interests, Mr.
Huizenga  has  been actively involved in strategic  planning
for  and executive management of these businesses.  He  also
has   a  majority  ownership  interest  in  Florida  Marlins
Baseball,  Ltd.,  a Major League Baseball sports  franchise,
and owns  the Florida Panthers Hockey Club, Ltd., a National
Hockey League sports franchise, the Miami  Dolphins, Ltd., a
National Football League sports franchise,  and  Joe  Robbie
Stadium in South Florida.

           Mr.  Biondi  has been President, Chief  Executive
Officer  and a Director of the Company since July 1987.   He
became  a Director of Spelling in 1994.  From November  1986
to  July  1987,  Mr.  Biondi was Chairman,  Chief  Executive
Officer  of  Coca-Cola Television and, from 1985,  Executive
Vice  President of the Entertainment Business Sector of  The
Coca-Cola Company.  Mr. Biondi joined HBO in 1978  and  held
various  positions there until his appointment as President,
Chief Executive Officer in 1983.  In 1984, he was elected to
the  additional position of Chairman and continued to  serve
in such capacities until October 1984.

           Mr.  Dauman  has been a Director of  the  Company
since  1987.   In March 1994, he was elected Executive  Vice
President, General Counsel, Chief Administrative Officer and
Secretary of the Company.  From February 1993 to March 1994,
he  served  as  Senior Vice President, General  Counsel  and
Secretary of the Company.  Prior to that, Mr. Dauman  was  a
partner in the law firm of Shearman & Sterling in New  York,
which  he  joined in 1978.  Mr. Dauman became a Director  of
National Amusements, Inc. in 1992 and a Director of Spelling
in 1994.

           Mr.  Dooley has been an executive officer of  the
Company  since January 1987.  In March 1994, he was  elected
Executive  Vice President -- Finance, Corporate  Development
and  Communications of the Company.  From July 1992 to March
1994,  Mr. Dooley served as Senior Vice President, Corporate
Development of the Company.  From August 1993 to March 1994,
he  also served as President, Interactive Television.  Prior
to  that,  he  served as Vice President,  Treasurer  of  the
Company  since  1987.  In December 1990, he was  named  Vice
President, Finance of the Company.  Mr. Dooley joined Viacom
International Inc. in 1980 in the corporate finance area and
has  held  various positions in the corporate and divisional
finance areas.

           Mr.  Clarke  was  elected Senior Vice  President,
Treasurer  of  the Company in July 1994, having  joined  the
Company  as Vice President, Treasurer in April 1993.   Prior
to  that,  he spent 12 years at Gannett Co., Inc., where  he
held   various  management  positions,  most   recently   as
Assistant Treasurer.

                                     I-27



           Mr.  Folta  was  elected Senior  Vice  President,
Corporate Relations of the Company in November 1994.   Prior
to that, he served as Vice President, Corporate Relations of
the  Company  from April 1994 to November 1994.   From  1984
until  joining  the Company in April 1994,  Mr.  Folta  held
various  Corporate  Communications positions  at  Paramount,
serving   most   recently  as  Senior  Director,   Corporate
Communications.

           Mr.  Fricklas was elected Senior Vice  President,
Deputy  General Counsel of the Company in March 1994.   From
June 1993 to March 1994, he served as Vice President, Deputy
General   Counsel  of  the  Company.   He  served  as   Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary of Minorco (U.S.A.)
Inc.  from 1990 to 1993. Prior to that, Mr. Fricklas was  an
attorney  in private practice at the law firm of Shearman  &
Sterling.

           Ms. Gordon was elected Vice President, Controller
and Chief Accounting Officer effective April 1, 1995.  Prior
to that, she served as Vice President, Internal Audit of the
Company since October 1986.  From June 1985 to October 1986,
Ms. Gordon served as Controller of Viacom Broadcasting.  She
joined the Company in 1981 and held various positions in the
corporate finance area.


           Mr. Hertlein was elected Senior Vice President of
the  Company  in  July 1994.  Prior to that,  he  served  as
Senior  Vice  President  and Controller  of  Paramount  from
September  1993  to July 1994 and as Senior Vice  President,
Internal  Audit  and  Special  Projects  of  Paramount  from
September 1992 to September 1993 and, before that,  as  Vice
President, Internal Audit and Special Projects of Paramount.

           Mr. Horowitz has been an executive officer of the
Company  since  April 1989.  In March 1994, he  was  elected
Senior  Vice  President,  Technology  of  the  Company   and
Chairman,  Chief  Executive Officer  of  Viacom  Interactive
Media.  Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President of
the Company from April 1989 and as Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer of Viacom Broadcasting from July 1992 to March 1994.
From 1974 to April 1989, Mr. Horowitz held various positions
with HBO, most recently as Senior Vice President, Technology
and  Operations.  Mr. Horowitz held several other management
positions with HBO, including Senior Vice President, Network
Operations  and New Business Development and Vice President,
Affiliate Sales.

           Mr.  Lavan has been an executive officer  of  the
Company  since December 1987.  In July 1994, he was  elected
Senior  Vice  President,  Controller  and  Chief  Accounting
Officer  and  will serve in such capacity  until  March  31,
1995.  Prior to that he served as Vice President, Controller
and  Chief Accounting Officer since May 1989, having  served
as Controller, Chief Accounting Officer since December 1987.
In  December 1990, he assumed the added responsibilities  of
oversight  of Company tax matters.  From 1991  to  1992,  he
also  served  as  Senior Vice President and Chief  Financial
Officer of Viacom Pictures.  Mr. Lavan joined the Company in
1984 as Assistant Controller of the Company.  Mr. Lavan will
become  Chief  Financial Officer of MTV  Networks  effective
April 1, 1995.

           Mr.  Leingang was elected Senior Vice  President,
Chief  Information Officer in May 1993.  Prior to  that,  he
served  as  Vice President, Chief Information  Officer  upon
joining  the  Company  in  1990.   Mr.  Leingang  was   Vice
President, Information Services of the Trian Group (formerly
Triangle Industries) from 1984 to 1990.  From 1982 to  1984,
he  served  as  Corporate Director, MIS,  and  Manager,  MIS
Planning  and Control for Interpace Corporation.   Prior  to
that  he  held positions with Touche Ross & Company, McGraw-
Hill Book Company and General Electric Credit Corp.

                                     I-28



           Mr.  Roskin has been an executive officer of  the
Company  since  April  1988 when he became  Vice  President,
Human  Resources  and Administration.   In  July  1992,  Mr.
Roskin  was  elected Senior Vice President, Human  Resources
and  Administration of the Company.  From May 1986 to  April
1988,  he  was  Senior Vice President,  Human  Resources  at
Coleco  Industries, Inc.  From 1976 to 1986, he held various
executive positions at Warner Communications, Inc.,  serving
most  recently  as  Vice  President,  Industrial  and  Labor
Relations.

           Mr.  Smith has been an executive officer  of  the
Company  since  May 1985. In November 1987, he  was  elected
Senior  Vice  President,  Chief  Financial  Officer  of  the
Company  and  he continues to serve in such capacities.   In
May  1985,  Mr. Smith was elected Vice President, Controller
and,  in October 1987, he was elected Vice President,  Chief
Financial Officer of the Company.  From 1983 until May 1985,
he  served as Vice President, Finance and Administration  of
the  Viacom Broadcasting and from 1981 until 1983, he served
as Controller of Viacom Radio.  Mr. Smith joined the Company
in  1977 in the Corporate Treasurer's office and until  1981
served in various financial planning capacities.

          Mr. Weinstein has been an executive officer of the
Company  since  January  1986.  In  February  1993,  he  was
elected  Senior  Vice President, Government Affairs  of  the
Company.  Prior to that, Mr. Weinstein served as Senior Vice
President,  General  Counsel and Secretary  of  the  Company
since the fall of 1987.  In January 1986, Mr. Weinstein  was
appointed  Vice President, General Counsel of  the  Company.
From  1976  through 1985, he was Deputy General  Counsel  of
Warner   Communications  Inc.  and  in  1980   became   Vice
President.   Previously, Mr. Weinstein was  an  attorney  in
private  practice at the law firm of Paul,  Weiss,  Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison.


                                     I-29




PART II

Item 5. Market for Viacom Inc.'s Common Equity and Related Security Holder
            Matters.


Viacom Inc. voting Class A Common Stock and Viacom Inc. non-
voting Class B Common Stock are listed and traded on the
American Stock Exchange ("AMEX") under the symbols "VIA" and
"VIA B", respectively.

The following table sets forth, for the calendar period
indicated, the per share range of high and low sales prices
for Viacom Inc.'s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common
Stock, as reported on the AMEX Composite Tape.



Viacom Inc. has not declared cash dividends on its common
equity and has no present intention of so doing.

As of March 27, 1995 there were approximately 14,878
holders of Viacom Inc. Class A Common Stock, and 25,738
holders of Viacom Inc. Class B Common Stock.


                                      II-1


Item 6. Selected Financial Data.


VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
(Millions of dollars, except per share amounts)



See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on
transactions and accounting classifications which have affected the
comparability of the periods presented above.  Viacom Inc. has not
declared cash dividends on its common equity for any of the periods
presented above.

                                     II-2



Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
         Financial Condition.

General

Management's discussion and analysis of the combined results of operations
and financial condition of Viacom Inc. (the "Company") should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes.
Descriptions of all documents incorporated by reference herein or included
as exhibits hereto are qualified in their entirety by reference to the
full text of such documents so incorporated or included.

During 1994, the Company made two significant acquisitions of large and
diversified businesses.  Where appropriate the Company has merged, or is
in the process of merging, the operations of previously existing and
acquired businesses.  Comparisons of results of operations have been
significantly affected by such acquisitions and merging of operations.
On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority of the outstanding
shares of Paramount Communications Inc. ("Paramount Communications") by
tender offer; on July 7, 1994, Paramount Communications became a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Paramount Merger"); and on January
3, 1995, Paramount Communications was merged into Viacom International.
On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation
("Blockbuster") merged with and into the Company (the "Blockbuster
Merger").  Paramount Communications' and Blockbuster's results of
operations are included as of March 1, 1994 and October 1, 1994,
respectively.

The Company's consolidated statements of operations reflect five operating
segments:

Networks and Broadcasting - Basic Cable and Premium Television Networks,
                            Television and Radio Stations.

Entertainment - Production and distribution of motion pictures and
                television programming as well as movie theater operations, 
                and new media and interactive services.

Video and Music/Theme Parks - Home Video and Music Retailing, and Theme
                              Parks.

Publishing - Educational; Consumer; Business, Training and Health Care;
             Reference; and International Groups.

Cable Television - Cable Television Systems.  (See Note 3 of Notes to
                   Consolidated Financial Statements.)

The following tables set forth revenues, earnings from continuing
operations before depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), depreciation
and amortization, earnings (loss) from continuing operations, equity in
pre-tax earnings (loss) of affiliated companies and earnings (loss) from
continuing operations plus equity in pre-tax earnings (loss) by business
segment for the periods indicated.  Prior period presentations have been
reclassified to conform to the current presentation.

                                     II-3



        Business Segment Information
        ----------------------------



        (a) Earnings from continuing operations before depreciation 
            and amortization.

        (b) Paramount Communications' and Blockbuster's results of 
            operations are included as of  March 1, 1994 and October
            1, 1994, respectively.

                                          II-4



Results of Operations
---------------------

1994 versus 1993
----------------

Revenues increased to $7.36 billion for 1994 from $2.0 billion for 1993 (or 
267%). EBITDA increased to $1.07 billion for 1994 from $538.1 million for 1993
(or 100%). Earnings from continuing operations increased to $608.3 million for 
1994 from $385.0 million for 1993 (or 58%).  The foregoing increases in 
results of operations are principally attributable to the acquisitions of 
Paramount Communications and Blockbuster, partially offset by the 
merger-related charges described below.

EBITDA and earnings from continuing operations for 1994 include merger-related
charges, reflecting the integration of the Company's pre-merger businesses with
similar Paramount units, and related management and strategic changes.  Such
amounts relate principally to adjustments of programming assets based upon new
management strategies and additional programming sources resulting from the
Paramount Merger and, with respect to Corporate, the combination of the 
employees of the Company and Paramount Communications.



While many in the financial community consider EBITDA to be an important 
measure of comparative operating performance, it should be considered in 
addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, earnings from 
operations, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance.

The comparability of results of operations for 1994 and 1993 has been affected 
by (i) the Paramount Merger, (ii) the Blockbuster Merger, and (iii) the 
merger-related charges all of which are non-recurring charges.  The following 
discussion of results of operations is exclusive of merger-related charges and 
includes an analysis of changes in EBITDA, which does not reflect the effect 
of significant amounts of amortization of goodwill related to the Paramount 
Merger, the Blockbuster Merger and other business combinations accounted for 
by the purchase method of accounting.


                                     II-5



Networks and Broadcasting

The constituents of Networks and Broadcasting are MTV Networks ("MTVN"),
Showtime Networks Inc. ("SNI"), television stations and radio stations.
Revenues increased to $1.86 billion for 1994 from $1.40 billion for 1993 (or
32%).  EBITDA increased to $544.0 million for 1994 from $382.6 million for 1993
(or 42%).  Earnings from operations increased to $447.8 million for 1994 from
$314.4 million for 1993 (or 42%).  The increase in revenues, EBITDA and earnings
from operations resulted from increased advertising revenues of MTVN, modest
increases in operating results of SNI and the Company's previously existing
television and radio stations, and the acquisition of the Paramount television
stations.  MTVN revenues of $852.2 million, EBITDA of $326.8 million and
earnings from operations of $284.5 million increased 26%, 20% and 19%,
respectively.  The increase in MTVN's revenues was principally attributable to
increased advertising revenues due to rate increases.  The increase in MTVN's
EBITDA was driven by increased advertising revenues partially offset by
increased operating costs, as well as aggregate losses of $15.0 million
associated with the development of MTV Latino, Nickelodeon Magazine and VH-1
U.K.  The Paramount television stations reported revenues of $210.4 million,
EBITDA of $83.1 million and earnings from operations of $65.8 million for the
period subsequent to their acquisition.

Entertainment

The primary constituents of Entertainment are Paramount Pictures, Spelling
Entertainment Group ("Spelling"), which was acquired as part of the Blockbuster
Merger, and the former Viacom Entertainment.  Revenues increased to $2.29
billion in 1994 from $209.1 million in 1993.  EBITDA increased to $230.0 million
for 1994 from $42.0 million for 1993.  Earnings from operations increased to
$135.6 million in 1994 from $32.5 million in 1993.  The increase in revenues,
EBITDA and earnings from operations resulted primarily from the acquisitions of
Paramount Pictures and Spelling.  Theatrical feature film and television
programming results reflect revenues of $1.9 billion, EBITDA of $227.8 million
and earnings from operations of $157.7 million.  The Entertainment segment's
earnings from operations were partially offset by Viacom Interactive Media's
loss from operations of $28.6 million, including start-up costs associated with
the development of new businesses.  Results of operations primarily reflect
theatrical feature film revenues, including the domestic and foreign box office
success of FORREST GUMP and CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER, as well as television
programming revenues including network and syndication sales.  Earnings from
operations benefited from a lower cost base and efficiencies associated with the
Paramount Merger.

Video and Music/Theme Parks

The constituents of Video and Music/Theme Parks are Blockbuster Video and Music,
and Paramount Parks.  Revenues, EBITDA and earnings from operations were $1.07
billion, $289.9 million and $199.5 million, respectively.  Video and Music
revenues, EBITDA and earnings from operations were $735.7 million, $220.3
million and $167.8 million, respectively, reflecting results of operations
beginning October 1, 1994 and the continued expansion of video and music stores.
Theme Parks revenues, EBITDA and earnings from operations were $334.7 million,
$69.6 million and $31.7 million, respectively, reflecting the full 1994
operating season (May through September) of the theme parks.

                                     II-6



Publishing

Publishing represents Simon & Schuster which includes imprints such as Simon &
Schuster, Pocket Books, Prentice Hall and Macmillan Publishing USA.  Publishing
revenues, EBITDA and earnings from operations were $1.79 billion, $296.9
million and $193.9 million, respectively, subsequent to its acquisition in
March 1994.  Results of operations reflect the Simon & Schuster's Higher
Education, Consumer and International groups, and the U.S. publishing assets 
of Macmillan, Inc. 

Cable Television

Cable Television revenues decreased to $406.2 million for 1994 from $416.0
million for 1993 (or 2%), primarily attributable to a decrease in primary
revenues.  EBITDA decreased to $155.2 million for 1994 from $181.7 million for
1993 (or 15%).  Earnings from operations decreased to $78.8 million for 1994
from $110.2 million for 1993 (or 28%).  The results reflect a 10% decrease in
average rates for primary services, partially offset by a 3% increase in average
primary customers.  Total revenue per primary customer per month decreased 5% to
$30.30 for 1994 from $32.03 for 1993.  The revenue variances reflect the effect
of the FCC rate regulations pursuant to the 1992 Cable Act governing rates in
effect as of September 1, 1993 and as of May 15, 1994.  The decrease in EBITDA
and earnings from operations principally reflect the decreased revenues
attributable to the above rate regulations and increased operating, general and
administrative expenses.

As of December 31, 1994, Viacom Cable served approximately 1,139,000 primary
customers subscribing to approximately 875,000 premium units, representing an
increase of 4% and 22%, respectively, since December 31, 1993.

Corporate Expenses

Corporate expenses including depreciation increased 60% to $115.2 million in
1994 from $72.1 million in 1993 reflecting overall increased expenses
attributable to the mergers.

Other Income and Expense Information

Interest Expense
Net interest expense of $494.1 million for 1994 compared to $145.0 million
for 1993 reflects increased bank borrowing, the issuance of the 8%
exchangeable subordinated debentures and debt acquired as part of the
Mergers.  The Company had approximately $10.4 billion and $2.5 billion
principal amount of debt outstanding as of December 31, 1994 and December 31,
1993 at weighted average interest rates of 7.5% and 5.3%, respectively.  (See
Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Other Items, Net
For 1994, "Other items, net" primarily reflects the pre-tax gain of $267.4
million, which resulted from the sale of the Company's one-third partnership
interest in Lifetime for $317.6 million in April 1994.  Proceeds from the sale
were used to reduce outstanding debt.

                                     II-7


For 1993, "Other items, net" reflects the pre-tax gain of approximately $55
million from the sale of the stock of the Wisconsin cable system, a pre-tax gain
of $17.4 million in the aggregate from sales of a portion of an investment held
at cost, partially offset by an increase of $9.1 million to previously
established non-operating litigation reserves and other items.

Provision for Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and foreign income
taxes on earnings before income taxes.

The annual effective tax rates of 74% for 1994 and 43% for 1993 were both
adversely affected by amortization of acquisition costs which are not deductible
for tax purposes.  The 1993 effective tax rate was favorably affected as a
result of reductions of certain prior year tax reserves of $22.0 million.  The
reductions were based on management's view concerning the outcome of several tax
issues based upon the progress of federal, state and local audits.

During the first quarter of 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" on a prospective
basis and recognized an increase in earnings of $10.4 million in 1993 as the
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.

Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Affiliates
"Equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax" was $18.6
million for 1994 as compared to a loss of $2.5 million for 1993, primarily
reflecting the inclusion of the net earnings of affiliated companies that were
acquired as part of the Mergers, improved operating results of Comedy Central,
partially offset by the absence of Lifetime's earnings due to the sale of the
Company's one-third partnership interest.  (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.)

Minority Interest
Minority interest primarily represents the minority ownership of Paramount
Communications' outstanding common stock, for the period March through June
1994, and the 23% minority ownership of Spelling's common stock for fourth
quarter 1994.

Discontinued Operations
Discontinued operations reflect the results of operations of Madison Square 
Garden Corporation ("MSG"), which was sold March 10, 1995.  The Company 
acquired MSG during March 1994 as part of the Paramount Merger.  (See Note 3 
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Extraordinary Losses
During 1994, the Company refinanced its existing credit facilities and therefore
recognized an after-tax extraordinary loss from the extinguishment of debt of
$20.4 million, net of a tax benefit of $11.9 million.

On July 15, 1993, Viacom International redeemed all of the $298 million
principal amount outstanding of the 11.80% Senior Subordinated Notes at a
redemption price equal to 103.37% of the principal amount plus accrued interest
to July 15, 1993.  Viacom International recognized an after-tax extraordinary
loss of $8.9 million, net of a tax benefit of $6.1 million. Viacom International
borrowed the funds necessary for the redemption under bank credit agreements
existing at the time.

                                     II-8



1993 versus 1992
----------------

Revenues increased to $2.0 billion in 1993 from $1.9 billion in 1992 (or 8%).
EBITDA increased to $538.1 million for 1993 from $492.7 million for 1992 (or
9%).  Earnings from continuing operations increased to $385.0 million in 1993
from $347.9 million in 1992 (or 11%).  Explanations of variances in revenues,
EBITDA and earnings from continuing operations for each segment follow.

The comparability of results of operations for 1993 and 1992 has been affected
by (i) the change in estimate of copyright royalty revenues during 1992 in the
Entertainment segment and (ii) the sale of the Wisconsin cable television
system, effective January 1, 1993.  (See "Entertainment" and "Cable Television"
for additional information.)

Networks and Broadcasting

Revenues increased to $1.40 billion for 1993 from $1.23 billion for 1992 (or
14%).  EBITDA increased to $382.6 million for 1993 from $303.8 million for 1992
(or 26%).  Earnings from operations increased to $314.4 million from $237.5
million (or 32%).  The increase in revenues and earnings from operations
resulted primarily from increased advertising sales of MTVN.  MTVN revenues of
$677.9 million, EBITDA of $272.7 million, and earnings from operations of $239.7
million increased 27%, 33% and 39%, respectively.  The increase in MTVN's
advertising revenues was principally attributable to rate increases.  The
increase in MTVN's EBITDA reflects the increased revenues, partially offset by
increased programming and marketing expenses at each of the networks and other
costs of operating the networks, including start-up losses of MTV Latino and
Nickelodeon Magazine aggregating $6.5 million.  The increase in programming and
marketing expenses at each of the networks (including animated programming on
Nickelodeon and MTV) was to a large extent responsible for the Company's ability
to increase advertising rates.  Revenues of the television stations, radio
stations and SNI each increased modestly.  EBITDA and earnings from operations
of the television stations and radio stations increased, and SNI's EBITDA and
earnings from operations were constant.

Entertainment

Entertainment revenues decreased to $209.1 million for 1993 from $248.3 million
for 1992 (or 16%).  EBITDA decreased to $42.0 million for 1993 from $66.5
million for 1992 (or 37%).  Earnings from operations decreased to $32.5 million
for 1993 from $59.7 million for 1992 (or 46%).  The revenue variance was
principally due to lower syndication revenues, lower copyright revenues
resulting from a change in estimate which increased revenue by approximately $10
million in 1992, and decreased network production revenues.  Lower sales to the
broadcast, cable and other market places reflect lower syndication revenues for
The Cosby Show and softness in the syndication market place due to a decrease in
the number of independent broadcast television stations because of new network
affiliations.  Revenues from the domestic broadcast syndication of The Cosby
Show were approximately 12% and 18% of Entertainment revenues during 1993 and
1992, respectively.  The decrease was due to the ending of the first domestic
syndication cycle of The Cosby Show during the third quarter of 1993.  Network
license fees were lower because fewer shows were produced for network
television; however, the decrease did not have a significant impact on
Entertainment EBITDA.  The EBITDA variance reflects the decreased revenues and
$6.1 million of start-up losses associated with Viacom New Media.

                                     II-9



Cable Television

Cable Television revenues increased to $416.0 million in 1993 from $411.1
million in 1992 (or 1%).  EBITDA decreased to $181.7 million for 1993 from
$190.5 million for 1992 (or 5%).  Earnings from operations decreased to $110.2
million in 1993 from $122.0 million in 1992 (or 10%).

On a comparable basis with the 1992 results (excluding the Wisconsin cable
system, which was sold effective January 1, 1993), Cable Television revenues
increased to $416.0 million in 1993 from $393.6 million in 1992 (or 6%); EBITDA
decreased to $181.7 million in 1993 from $182.5 million in 1992; and earnings
from operations decreased to $110.2 million for 1993 from $117.6 million for
1992 (or 6%).  The results reflect a 4% increase in average rates for primary
services and a 2% increase in average primary customers.  Total revenue per
primary customer per month increased 3% to $32.03 in 1993 from $31.04 in 1992.
The decrease in EBITDA reflects increased operating expenses (which included 
non-recurring costs associated with the implementation of FCC rate regulations)
partially offset by increased revenues.

As of December 31, 1993, the Company operated systems serving approximately
1,094,000 primary customers subscribing to approximately 718,000 premium units.
Excluding the Wisconsin cable system customers in 1992, primary customers and
premium units increased 2% and decreased 5%, respectively, since December 31,
1992.  Including the Wisconsin cable system customers in 1993, primary
customers and premium units decreased 2% and 9%, respectively, since December
31, 1992.

Corporate Expenses

Corporate expenses increased to $72.1 million in 1993 from $71.3 million in 1992
(or 1%), reflecting increased overall expenses offset by decreased compensation
expense associated with the Long-Term Incentive Plans (the "Plans"), which 
consist of the Long-Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP") and the Long-Term Management 
Incentive Plan ("LTMIP").  The Plans provide for grants of phantom shares and 
stock options. The value of phantom shares issued under the Plans is determined
by reference to the fair market value of Viacom Class A Common Stock and 
Viacom Class B Common Stock (collectively, "Common Stock").  The Plans also 
provide for subsequent cash payments with respect to such phantom shares based 
on appreciated value, subject to certain limits, and vesting requirements.  As 
a result of the fluctuation in the market value of its Common Stock, the 
Company recorded compensation expense associated with the Plans of $3.9 
million in 1993 and $8.2 million in 1992. During December 1992, a significant 
portion of the liability associated with the LTIP was satisfied by the cash 
payment of $68.6 million and the issuance of 177,897 shares of Viacom Class B 
Common Stock valued at $6.9 million.

                                     II-10


Other Income and Expense Information

Interest Expense, Net
Net interest expense decreased to $145.0 million in 1993 from $194.1 million in
1992 (or 25%), reflecting improvements made to the capital structure (as
described below) and reduced interest rates, including rates associated with the
credit agreement.  The Company had approximately $2.5 billion principal amount
of debt outstanding as of December 31, 1993 and December 31, 1992 at weighted
average interest rates of 5.3% and 6.5%, respectively.  On July 15, 1993, the
Company redeemed all $298 million principal amount outstanding of 11.80% Senior
Subordinated Notes ("11.80% Notes").  During 1992, the following changes to the
capital structure were made: a) on March 4, 1992, the Company issued $150
million principal amount of 9.125% Senior Subordinated Notes due 1999;  b) on
March 10, 1992, the Company redeemed all $193 million of the outstanding 11.5%
Senior Subordinated Extendible Reset Notes ("11.5% Reset Notes") due 1998;  c)
on May 28, 1992, the Company issued $100 million principal amount of 8.75%
Senior Subordinated Reset Notes due 2001; and d) on June 18, 1992, the Company
redeemed all $356.5 million of the outstanding 14.75% Senior Subordinated
Discount Debentures ("Discount Debentures") due 2002.

Other Items, Net
The settlement of the Time Warner antitrust lawsuit resulted in various business
arrangements, which have a positive effect on the Company currently and are
expected to continue to have a favorable effect on a prospective basis.  "Other
items, net" reflects a gain of $35 million recorded in the third quarter of 
1992; representing payments received in the third quarter of 1992 relating to 
certain aspects of the settlement of the lawsuit, net of the Company's 1992 
legal expenses related to this lawsuit.  "Other items, net" also reflects a 
reserve for litigation of $33 million during the second quarter of 1992 
related to a summary judgment against the Company in a dispute with CBS Inc. 
arising under the 1970 agreement associated with the spin-off of Viacom 
International Inc. by CBS Inc. On July 30, 1993, the Company settled all 
disputes arising under that litigation.

Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes represents federal, state and foreign income 
taxes on earnings before income taxes.

The annual effective tax rates of 43% for 1993 and 54.5% for 1992 were adversely
affected by amortization of acquisition costs which are not deductible for tax
purposes.  The 1993 and 1992 effective tax rates were favorably affected as a
result of reductions of certain prior year tax reserves of $22.0 million and 
$20.0 million, respectively.  The reductions were based on management's view 
concerning the outcome of several tax issues based upon the progress of 
federal, state and local audits.

Equity in Earnings (Loss) of Affiliates
"Equity in earnings (loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax" decreased 46% to
$2.5 million in 1993 from $4.7 million in 1992, primarily reflecting improved
operating results at Lifetime and Comedy Central, partially offset by net losses
on equity investments made in 1993.

                                     II-11


Extraordinary Losses
On June 18, 1992, the Company redeemed all of the $356.5 million principal 
amount outstanding of the Discount Debentures at a redemption price equal to 
105% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to June 18, 1992.  On March 
10, 1992, the Company redeemed all of the $193 million principal amount 
outstanding of its 11.50% Reset Notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of 
the principal amount plus accrued interest to the redemption date.  The 
Company recognized an extraordinary loss of $17.1 million, net of a tax 
benefit of $11.3 million.  The Company borrowed the funds necessary for each 
of these redemptions under its bank credit facilities existing in the 
respective periods.

Acquisitions
------------

On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority of the shares of Paramount
Communications' common stock outstanding at a price of $107 per share in cash.
On July 7, 1994, Paramount Communications became a wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Company. The total cost to acquire Paramount Communications of $9.9 
billion was financed through $3.7 billion of borrowing from banks, $3.1 
billion of cash and $3.1 billion of securities.  (See Note 2 of Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements.)  Such cash was obtained through 
the issuance of $1.8 billion of Preferred Stock (of which $600 million 
and $1.2 billion were issued to Blockbuster and NYNEX Corporation, respectively)
and $1.25 billion of Viacom Class B Common Stock to Blockbuster.  The 
securities issued to Blockbuster were canceled upon consummation of the 
Blockbuster Merger.

On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster was merged with and into the Company.  The
total cost to acquire Blockbuster of $7.6 billion was financed through the
issuance of equity securities to Blockbuster shareholders.  (See Note 2 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.)


Liquidity and Capital Resources
-------------------------------

The Company expects to fund its anticipated cash requirements (including the
anticipated cash requirements of its capital expenditures, joint ventures,
commitments and payments of principal, interest and dividends on its outstanding
indebtedness and preferred stock) with internally generated funds and from 
various external sources, which may include the Company's existing Credit 
Agreements, co-financing arrangements by the Company's various divisions, 
additional financings and the sale of non-strategic assets as opportunities 
may arise.

The Company's scheduled maturities of long-term debt, through December 31, 1999
assuming full utilization of the credit agreements (after giving effect to the
reduction in commitments resulting from the sale of MSG), are $1.9 billion 
(1996), $163 million (1997), $1.0 billion (1998) and $1.5 billion (1999). 
(See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)  The Company's 
Preferred Stock dividend requirement is $60 million per year.

The Company's joint ventures are expected to require estimated net cash
contributions of approximately $20 million to $40 million in 1995.  Planned
capital expenditures, including information systems costs, are approximately 
$600 million to $700 million in 1995.  Capital expenditures are primarily 
related to capital additions for new and existing video and music stores and 
theme parks, and additional construction and equipment upgrades for the 
Company's existing cable franchises.

                                     II-12



The Company was in compliance with all debt covenants and had satisfied all
financial ratios and tests as of December 31, 1994 under its Credit Agreement 
and the Company expects to remain in compliance and satisfy all such financial 
ratios and tests during 1995.

Debt as a percentage of total capitalization of the Company was 47% at 
December 31, 1994 and 48% at December 31, 1993.

See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of 
the Company's commitments related to the contingent value rights and variable 
common rights.  See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for 
a description of the Company's future minimum lease commitments.

The commitments of the Company for program license fees, which are not
reflected in the balance sheet as of December 31, 1994 and are estimated to
aggregate approximately $2.0 billion, principally reflect commitments under
SNI's exclusive arrangements with several motion picture companies.  This
estimate is based upon a number of factors.  A majority of such fees are
payable over several years, as part of normal programming expenditures of SNI.
These commitments are contingent upon delivery of motion pictures which are not
yet available for premium television exhibition and, in many cases, have not
yet been produced.

There are various lawsuits and claims pending against the Company.  Management
believes that any ultimate liability resulting from those actions or claims
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations
or financial position.

Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company from time to time receive
claims from Federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other
entities asserting that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup
costs and related damages, principally relating to discontinued operations
conducted by its former mining and manufacturing businesses (acquired as part of
the mergers).  The Company has recorded a liability at approximately the mid-
point of its estimated range of environmental exposure.  Such liability was not
reduced by potential insurance recoveries and reflects management's estimate of
cost sharing at multiparty sites.  The estimated range of the potential
liability was calculated based upon currently available facts, existing
technology and presently enacted laws and regulations.  On the basis of its
experience and the information currently available to it, the Company believes
that the claims it has received will not have a material adverse effect on its
results of operations or financial position.

Net cash flow from operating activities increased 130% to $339.2 million in 1994
from $147.6 million for 1993 principally due to the inclusion of Paramount
Communications' and Blockbuster's results of operations since the effective time
of the respective mergers and increased earnings from operations of Viacom's 
pre-merger businesses, prior to merger-related charges.  Net cash expenditures
from investing activities of $6.3 billion for 1994, principally reflect the 
acquisition of the majority of the shares of Paramount Communications and 
capital expenditures, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of the 
Company's one-third partnership in Lifetime.  Net cash expenditures from 
investing activities of $128.4 million for 1993 principally reflect capital 
expenditures, acquisitions, an additional investment in StarSight Telecast, 
Inc. and advances to Comedy Central, partially offset by proceeds from the 
sale of the Wisconsin cable system, proceeds related to the radio station swap 
and proceeds from the sale of an investment held at cost.  Financing activities 
reflect borrowings and repayment of debt under the credit agreements during 
each period presented; the issuance of Viacom Class B Common Stock to 
Blockbuster during 1994 and the redemption of the 11.80% Notes and the 
issuance of the Preferred Stock during 1993.

                                     II-13



Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
Viacom Inc.

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of shareholders' equity
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Viacom Inc.
and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of their 
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the management of Viacom 
Inc.; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on 
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates 
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.

PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

1177 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York   10036
February 10, 1995

                                     II-14


MANAGEMENT'S STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management has prepared and is responsible for the consolidated financial
statements and related notes of Viacom Inc.  They have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily 
include amounts based on judgments and estimates by management.  All financial
information in this annual report is consistent with the consolidated financial
statements.

The Company maintains internal accounting control systems and related policies
and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are
safeguarded, that transactions are executed in accordance with management's
authorization and properly recorded, and that accounting records may be relied
upon for the preparation of consolidated financial statements and other
financial information.  The design, monitoring, and revision of internal
accounting control systems involve, among other things, management's judgment
with respect to the relative cost and expected benefits of specific control
measures.  The Company also maintains an internal auditing function which
evaluates and reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal accounting
controls, policies and procedures.

Viacom Inc.'s consolidated financial statements have been audited by Price
Waterhouse LLP, independent accountants, who have expressed their opinion 
with respect to the presentation of these statements.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is comprised solely of
directors who are not employees of the Company, meets periodically with the
independent accountants, with our internal auditors, as well as with management,
to review accounting, auditing, internal accounting controls and financial
reporting matters.  The Audit Committee is also responsible for recommending to
the Board of Directors the independent accounting firm to be retained for the
coming year, subject to stockholder approval.  The independent accountants and
the internal auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee with and
without management's presence.

                                                  VIACOM INC.


                                   By:    /s/Frank J. Biondi, Jr.
                                          -----------------------------------
                                             Frank J. Biondi, Jr.
                                             President, Chief Executive Officer


                                   By:     /s/George S. Smith, Jr.
                                          -----------------------------------
                                              George S. Smith, Jr.
                                              Senior Vice President,
                                              Chief Financial Officer


                                   By:      /s/ Kevin C. Lavan
                                          -----------------------------------
                                                Kevin C. Lavan
                                                Senior Vice President, 
                                                Controller and Chief 
                                                Accounting Officer

                                     II-15




                           VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
                      --------------------------------------
                     (In millions, except per share amounts)


                                          II-16




                         VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
                                (In millions)
                         ----------------------------


                                                   II-17



                            VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
                             CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
                             ----------------------------
                       (In millions, except per share amounts)

                                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                                        II-18







                                                         II-19


                            VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EOUITY
                                   (In millions)


                          See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                    II-20



                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

1) SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Basis of Presentation - The Company is a diversified entertainment and
publishing company with operations in five segments: (i) Networks and
Broadcasting, (ii) Entertainment, (iii) Video and Music/Theme Parks, (iv)
Publishing and (v) Cable Television.  Paramount Communications Inc.
("Paramount Communications") and Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation
("Blockbuster") results of operations are included in the Company's
consolidated results of operations effective March 1, 1994 and
October 1, 1994, respectively.  (See Note 2).

Certain amounts reported on the balance sheet and statements of cash flows for
prior years have been reclassified to conform with the current presentation.

Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and all investments of more than 50% in subsidiaries and
other entities. Investments in affiliated companies over which the Company has a
significant influence or ownership of more than 20% but less than or equal to 
50% are accounted for under the equity method.  All significant intercompany
transactions have been eliminated.  Investments of 20% or less are accounted for
under the cost method.  In 1993, the fiscal year end for certain foreign
operations was changed from October 31 to December 31.

Cash Equivalents - Cash equivalents are defined as short-term (3 months or less)
highly liquid investments.

Inventories - Publishing related inventories are generally determined using the
lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or net realizable value.  Prerecorded
music and videocassette inventories costs are determined using the moving 
weighted average method, the use of which approximates the first-in, first-out 
basis. Videocassette rental inventory is recorded at cost and amortized over 
its estimated economic life with no provision for salvage value.  Videocassettes
which are considered base stock are amortized over 36 months on a straight-line
basis. Videocassettes which are considered new release feature films are 
frequently ordered in large quantities to satisfy initial demand ("hits"). For
each store, the fifth and any succeeding copies of hit titles purchased are 
amortized over six months on a straight-line basis.

Theatrical and Television Inventories - Inventories related to theatrical and
television product (which include direct production costs, production overhead,
capitalized interest, acquisition costs, prints and certain exploitation costs)
are stated at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value.  Inventories,
residuals and participations are amortized on an individual product basis based
on the proportion that current revenues bear to the estimated remaining total 
lifetime revenues.  Domestic syndication and basic cable revenue estimates are 
not included in the estimated lifetime revenues of network series until such 
sales are probable. Estimates of total lifetime revenues and expenses are 
periodically reviewed.  The costs of feature and television films are 
classified as

                                     II-21


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

current assets to the extent such costs are expected to be recovered through 
their respective primary markets.  Other costs related to film production are 
classified as noncurrent.  A portion of the cost to acquire Paramount 
Communications and Blockbuster was allocated to theatrical and television 
inventories based upon estimated revenues from certain films less related 
costs of distribution and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling 
effort.  The cost allocated to films is being amortized over their estimated 
economic lives not to exceed 20 years.

The Company estimates that approximately 66% of unamortized film costs
(including amounts allocated under purchase accounting) at December  31, 1994 
will be amortized within the next three years.

Program Rights - The Company acquires rights to exhibit programming on its
broadcast stations or cable networks.  The costs incurred in acquiring programs
are capitalized, to the extent they are estimated to be recovered from future
revenues, and amortized over the license period.  Program rights and the related
liabilities are recorded at the gross amount of the liabilities when the license
period has begun, the cost of the program is determinable, and the program is
accepted and available for airing.

Property and Equipment - Property and equipment is stated at cost.  Depreciation
is computed principally by the straight-line method over estimated useful lives
ranging from 3 to 40 years.  Depreciation expense, including capitalized lease
amortization, was $215.9 million (1994), $92.8 million (1993) and $81.5 million
(1992).

Intangible Assets - Intangible assets, which primarily consist of the cost of
acquired businesses in excess of the market value of tangible assets and
liabilities acquired, are generally amortized by the straight-line method over
estimated useful lives of up to 40 years.  The Company evaluates the 
amortization period of intangibles on an ongoing basis in light of changes in 
any business conditions, events or circumstances that may indicate the 
potential impairment of intangible assets.  Accumulated amortization of 
intangible assets at December 31 was $663.2 million (1994) and $412.5 million
(1993).

Revenue Recognition - Subscriber fees for Networks and Cable Television are
recognized in the period the service is provided.  Advertising revenues for
Networks and Broadcasting are recognized in the period during which the spots 
are aired.  Revenues from the Company owned video and music stores are 
recognized at the time of rental or sale. The publishing segment recognizes 
revenue when merchandise is shipped and billed.

Theatrical and Television Revenues - Feature motion pictures are produced or
acquired for distribution, normally, for exhibition in U.S. and foreign theaters
followed by videocassettes and discs, pay-per-view, premium subscription
television, network television, basic cable television and syndicated television
exploitation.  On average, the length of the initial revenue cycle for feature
films approximates four to seven years.  Theatrical revenues from domestic and
foreign markets are recognized as films are exhibited; revenues from the sale of
videocassettes are recognized upon delivery of the merchandise; and revenues 
from all television sources are recognized upon availability of the film for 
telecast.

                                     II-22



                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Television series initially produced for the networks and first-run syndication
are generally licensed to domestic and foreign markets concurrently.  The more
successful series are later syndicated in domestic markets and in certain 
foreign markets.  The length of the revenue cycle for television series will 
vary depending on the number of seasons a series remains in active production.
Revenues arising from television license agreements are recognized in the year
that the films or television series are available for telecast.

Interest - Costs associated with the refinancing or issuance of debt, as well as
with debt discount, are expensed as interest over the term of the related debt.
The Company enters into interest rate exchange agreements; the amount to be paid
or received under such agreements is accrued as interest rates change and is
recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense.
Amounts paid for purchased interest rate cap agreements are amortized into
interest over the term of the agreement (See Note 6).

Equity In Earnings (Loss) of Affiliated Companies - Equity in earnings (loss)
of affiliated companies in the Consolidated Statement of Operations is
primarily comprised of the Company's interest in Lifetime (33% owned), Comedy
Central (50% owned), Nickelodeon (UK) (50% owned) and All News Channel (50%
owned), as well as, in 1994, investments that were acquired as part of the
Mergers (as defined in Note 2).  Such investments were USA Networks (50%
owned), Cinamerica (50% owned), United Cinemas International Multiplex B.V.
(49% owned), Cinema International Corporation N.V. (49% owned) and Discovery
Zone (50% owned).  The Company's interest in Lifetime was sold in 1994 (See
Note 14).

The Company, through the normal course of business, is involved in transactions
with affiliated companies that have not been material in any of the periods
presented.

Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions - The Company's foreign
subsidiaries' assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect
at the balance sheet date, while results of operations are translated at average
exchange rates for the respective periods.  The resulting translation gains or
losses are included as a separate component of shareholders' equity.  Foreign
currency transaction gains and losses have been included in results of 
operations and have not been material in any of the years presented.

Provision for Doubtful Accounts - The provision for doubtful accounts charged 
to expense was $61.6 million (1994), $16.7 million (1993) and $9.4 million 
(1992).

Net Earnings per Common Share - Primary net earnings per common share is
calculated based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during each period and for 1994, the effects of common shares potentially 
issuable in connection with the contingent value rights ("CVRs"), variable 
common rights ("VCRs"), stock options and warrants.  For 1993 and 1992, the 
effect of contingently issuable common shares from stock options was 
immaterial and, therefore, the effect is not reflected in primary net earnings 
per common share for those periods.  For 1994 and 1993, the effect of the 
assumed conversion of Preferred Stock is antidilutive and, therefore, not 
reflected in fully diluted net earnings per common share.

                                     II-23


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

2) PARAMOUNT MERGER, BLOCKBUSTER MERGER AND
   RELATED TRANSACTIONS

On March 11, 1994, the Company acquired a majority of the shares of Paramount
Communications common stock outstanding at a price of $107 per share in cash. On
July 7, 1994, Paramount Communications became a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company (the "Paramount Merger"). Each share of Paramount Communications 
common stock outstanding at the time of the Paramount Merger (other 
than shares held in the treasury of Paramount Communications or owned 
by the Company and other than shares held by any stockholders who demanded
and perfected appraisal rights) was converted into the right to receive 
(i) 0.93065 of a share of Class B Common Stock, (ii) $17.50 principal amount 
of 8% exchangeable subordinated debentures ("8% Merger Debentures"), 
(iii) 0.93065 of a CVR (iv) 0.5 of a warrant to purchase one share of Viacom 
Class B Common Stock at any time prior to the third anniversary of the 
Paramount Merger at a price of $60 per share, and (v) 0.3 of a warrant to 
purchase one share of Viacom Class B Common Stock at any time prior to the 
fifth anniversary of the Paramount Merger at a price of $70 per share.

Each CVR represents the right to receive the amount, if any, by which the Target
Price exceeds the greater of the Current Market Value or the Minimum Price (see
defined terms in following paragraph).  The CVRs will mature on the first
anniversary of the Paramount Merger (the "Maturity Date"), provided, however, 
that the Company may, at its option, (i) extend the Maturity Date to the second
anniversary of the Paramount Effective Time (the "First Extended Maturity Date")
or (ii) extend the First Extended Maturity Date to the third anniversary or the
Paramount Effective Time (the "Second Extended Maturity Date").  The Company, at
its option, may pay any amount due under the terms of the CVRs in cash or in the
equivalent value of registered securities of the Company, including, without
limitation, common stock, preferred stock, notes or other securities.

The "Minimum Price" means (a) at the Maturity Date, $36, (b) at the First 
Extended Maturity Date, $37 and (c) at the Second Extended Maturity Date, $38.
"Target Price" means (a) at the Maturity Date, $48, (b) at the First Extended 
Maturity Date, $51, and (c) at the Second Extended Maturity Date, $55.  The 
"Current Market Value" means the average market price of Viacom Class B Common 
Stock for a specified period prior to the respective maturity dates.

On September 29, 1994, Blockbuster was merged with and into the Company (the
"Blockbuster Merger").  Each share of Blockbuster Common Stock outstanding at 
the time of the Blockbuster Merger (other than shares held in the treasury of
Blockbuster or owned by the Company) was converted into the right to receive (i)
0.08 of a share of Viacom Class A Common Stock, (ii) 0.60615 of a share of 
Viacom Class B Common Stock, and (iii) one VCR.

The VCRs represent the right to receive a fraction of a share of Viacom
Class B Common Stock, with the exact fraction dependent on the market price of
Viacom Class B Common Stock during the year following the effective time of the
Blockbuster Merger.  The VCRs mature on the first anniversary date of the
Blockbuster Merger.  Based upon the market price of Viacom Class B Common Stock,
following the Blockbuster Merger the maximum fraction of a share issuable 
pursuant to the VCRs was reduced from 0.13829 of a share of Viacom Class B 
Common Stock to 0.05929 of a share of Viacom Class B Common Stock, or a 
maximum issuable potential of approximately 16.7 million shares of Viacom 
Class B Common Stock.

                                     II-24


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

The Paramount Merger and the Blockbuster Merger (collectively, the "Mergers") 
have been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.  Accordingly, 
the total cost to acquire Paramount Communications of $9.9 billion and 
Blockbuster of $7.6 billion has been allocated to the respective assets and 
liabilities acquired based on their fair values at the time of the Mergers with
the aggregate excess cost over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired 
of $7.9 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively, allocated to goodwill.

The unaudited condensed pro forma results of operations data presented below
assumes that the Mergers and related transactions, the sale of the one-third
partnership interest in Lifetime and the sale of MSG (as defined in Note 3)
occurred at the beginning of each period presented.  The unaudited condensed 
pro forma results of operations data was prepared based upon the historical
consolidated results of operations of the Company for the years ended December 
31, 1994 and 1993, Paramount for the two months ended February 28, 1994 and 
year ended December 31, 1993, and Blockbuster for the nine months ended 
September 30, 1994 and year ended December 31, 1993, adjusted to exclude the 
non-recurring merger-related charges of $332.1 million (as described below). 
Financial information for Paramount Communications and Blockbuster subsequent 
to the date of acquisition is included in the Company's historical information.
Intangible assets are amortized principally over 40 years on a straight-line 
basis.  The following unaudited pro forma information is not necessarily 
indicative of the combined results of operations of the Company, Paramount 
Communications and Blockbuster that would have occurred if the completion of 
the transactions had occurred on the dates previously indicated nor are they 
necessarily indicative of future operating results of the combined company.



Pro forma earnings from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 
1994 exclude $332.1 million of non-recurring merger-related charges reflecting 
the integration of the Company's pre-merger businesses with similar Paramount
Communications units, and related management and strategic changes principally
related to the merger with Paramount Communications.

                                     II-25


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

During each of the three years presented, the Company has also acquired or
sold certain other businesses.  The contributions of these businesses in
the aggregate were not significant to the Company's results of operations
for the periods presented, nor are they expected to have a material effect
on the Company's results on a continuing basis.


3) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On January 20, 1995, the Company agreed to sell its cable television systems to
a partnership of which Mitgo Corp., a company wholly owned by Frank Washington,
is a general partner, for approximately $2.3 billion, subject to certain 
conditions, including, receipt of a tax certificate from the Federal 
Communications Commission and the availability of certain federal tax 
consequences of the sale advantageous to the Company.  The U. S. House of 
Representatives and U. S. Senate have each approved a similar version of 
legislation that would eliminate such tax consequences.  The House of 
Representatives has also approved a compromise version of the bill, which 
is awaiting Senate approval. The Company has announced that it will not proceed
with the agreed transaction in the event that such tax consequences are 
unavailable.  The Company has also announced that it is considering other 
options with respect to the disposition of its cable systems and that it 
intends to proceed with such disposition.  Until a formal plan for the 
disposition is established, operating results for Cable Television will be 
included in earnings from continuing operations.

During March 1995, the Company sold Madison Square Garden Corporation (which
includes the Madison Square Garden Arena, The Paramount theater, the New York
Knickerbockers, the New York Rangers and the Madison Square Garden Network,
collectively "MSG") to a joint venture of ITT Corporation and Cablevision 
Systems Corporation for closing proceeds of $1.009 billion, representing the 
sale price of approximately $1.075 billion, less approximately $66 million in 
working capital adjustments.  The sale of MSG resulted in no after-tax book 
gain.  Proceeds from the sale were used to pay down notes payable to banks.  
The Company acquired MSG as part of the Paramount Merger.

MSG has been accounted for as a discontinued operation and, accordingly, its
operating results and net assets have been separately disclosed in the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                     II-26


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Summarized results of operations for the year ended December 31, 1994 and
financial position data as of December 31, 1994 for MSG are as follows
(millions of dollars).

         Results of operations:
         Revenues                                             $273.4
         Loss from operations before income tax benefit       $(25.4)
         Income tax benefit                                   $  4.9
         Net loss                                             $(20.5)

         Financial position:
         Current assets                                       $107.8
         Net property, plant and equipment                     312.9
         Other assets                                          409.4
         Total liabilities                                    (132.7)
                                                              ------
         Net assets of discontinued operations                $697.4
                                                              ======



                                     II-27


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

5) BANK FINANCING AND DEBT


* Issues of Viacom International guaranteed by the Company.

      (a) -- On July 1, 1994, the Company entered into an aggregate $6.489 
billion credit agreement (the "Viacom Credit Agreement"), and Viacom 
International Inc. ("Viacom International") and certain of its subsidiaries 
(the "Subsidiary Obligors") entered into a $311 million credit agreement (the
"Viacom International Credit Agreement," together with the Viacom Credit 
Agreement, collectively the "Credit Agreements") each with certain banks, the 
proceeds of which were used to refinance debt related to the Paramount Merger 
and the previously existing bank debt of the Company, Viacom International and 
Paramount.  On September 29, 1994, the Company entered into an aggregate $1.8 
billion credit agreement (the "$1.8 billion Credit Agreement") with certain 
banks, the proceeds of which were used to refinance the previously existing 
bank debt of Blockbuster.

The Company guarantees the Viacom International Credit Agreement and notes and
debentures issued by Viacom International.  Viacom International guarantees
Viacom's Credit Agreement, the $1.8 billion Credit Agreement and notes and
debentures issued by the Company.

                                     II-28


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

The following is a summary description of the credit agreements.  The 
description does not purport to be complete and should be read in conjunction 
with each of the credit agreements.

The Viacom Credit Agreement is comprised of (i) a $2.5 billion senior 
unsecured 2-1/2 year revolving short term loan (the "Short-Term Loan") 
maturing December 31, 1996, (ii) a $1.8 billion senior unsecured 8 year 
reducing revolving loan (the "Revolving Loan") maturing July 1, 2002 and (iii) 
a $2.189 billion 8 year term loan maturing July 1, 2002 (the "Term Loan").  
The Viacom International Credit Agreement is comprised of a $311 million 8-year
term loan to Viacom International and certain of its subsidiaries maturing 
July 1, 2002.  The $1.8 billion Credit Agreement is comprised of a $1.8 
billion senior unsecured reducing revolving loan to the Company maturing 
July 1, 2002.

The interest rate on all loans made under the three facilities is based upon
Citibank, N.A.'s base rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate and is affected
by the Company's credit rating.  At December 31, 1994, the London Interbank 
Offered Rates ("LIBOR") (upon which the Company's borrowing rate was based) for
borrowing periods of one month and two months were 6.0% and 6.25%, respectively.
At December 31, 1993, LIBOR for borrowing periods of one and two months were 
3.25% and 3.3125%, respectively.

The Company may prepay the loans and reduce commitments under the Viacom Credit
Agreement and the $1.8 billion Credit Agreement in whole or in part at any time.
The Company is required, subject to certain conditions, to make prepayments 
under the Short-Term Loan resulting from receipt of the first $2.5 billion in 
the aggregate of net cash proceeds from asset sales other than in the ordinary 
course of business or from capital market transactions.  In the event that a 
Subsidiary Obligor ceases to be a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company or 
Viacom International, the loans of such Subsidiary Obligor shall be due and 
payable on the date on which such subsidiary ceases to be a wholly owned 
subsidiary.  If such event occurs prior to December 31, 1996 or the repayment 
in full of all Short-Term Loans, the Company may elect to convert any 
outstanding portion of the Short-Term Loan into additional Term Loans in an 
amount equal to the principal amount of such Subsidiary Obligor's loan.

The credit agreements contain certain covenants which, among other things, 
require that the Company maintain certain financial ratios and impose on the 
Company and its subsidiaries certain limitations on substantial asset sales 
and mergers with any other company in which the Company is not the surviving 
entity.

The credit agreements contain certain customary events of default and provide 
that it is an event of default if National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI") fails to 
own at least 51% of the outstanding voting stock of the Company.

The Company is required to pay a commitment fee based on the aggregate daily
unborrowed portion of the loan commitments.  As of December 31, 1994, the 
Company had $957 million of available loan commitments.  The credit agreements 
do not require compensating balances.

                                     II-29


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

      (b) -- The $100 million aggregate principal amount of 8.75% Senior
Subordinated Reset Notes ("8.75% Reset Notes") are due on May 15, 2001.  On May
15, 1995 and May 15, 1998, unless a notice of redemption of the 8.75% Reset 
Notes on such date has been given by the Company, the interest rate on the 
8.75% Reset Notes will, if necessary, be adjusted from the rate then in effect 
to a rate to be determined on the basis of market rates in effect on May 5, 
1995 and on May 5, 1998, respectively, as the rate the 8.75% Reset Notes 
should bear in order to have a market value of 101% of principal amount 
immediately after the resetting of the rate.  In no event will the interest 
rate be lower than 8.75% or higher than the average three year treasury rate
(as defined in the indenture) multiplied by two. The interest rate reset on 
May 15, 1995 will remain in effect on the 8.75% Reset Notes through and 
including May 15, 1998 and the interest rate reset on May 15, 1998 will remain 
in effect on the 8.75% Reset Notes thereafter.  The 8.75% Reset Notes are 
redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole but not in part, on May 15, 
1995 or May 15, 1998, at a redemption price of 101% of principal amount plus 
accrued interest to, but not including, the date of redemption.

      (c) -- The Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $1,069.9 
million of 8% Merger Debentures as part of the Paramount Merger consideration.
The balance sheet reflects the fair value of the 8% Merger Debentures plus
amortization of the related discount.
                              _____________________

Extraordinary Losses

During 1994, the proceeds from the Viacom Credit Agreement were used to 
refinance the previously existing bank debt of the Company.  The Company 
recognized an extraordinary loss from the extinguishment of debt of $20.4 
million, net of a tax benefit of $11.9 million.

On July 15, 1993, Viacom International redeemed all of the $298 million 
principal amount outstanding of the 11.80% Senior Subordinated Notes at a 
redemption price equal to 103.37% of the principal amount plus accrued 
interest to July 15, 1993. Viacom International recognized an extraordinary 
loss from the extinguishment of debt of $8.9 million, net of a tax benefit of 
$6.1 million.

On June 18, 1992, the Company redeemed all of the $356.5 million principal 
amount outstanding of the 14.75% Senior Subordinated Discount Debentures at a 
redemption price equal to 105% of the principal amount plus accrued interest 
to June 18, 1992.  On March 10, 1992, the Company redeemed all of the $193 
million principal amount outstanding of its 11.50% Senior Subordinated 
Extendible Reset Notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of the principal 
amount plus accrued interest to the redemption date.  The Company recognized 
an extraordinary loss of $17.1 million, net of a tax benefit of $11.3 million.

The Company borrowed the funds necessary for each of these redemptions under 
its bank credit facilities existing in the respective periods.

                                     II-30


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Interest costs incurred, interest income and capitalized interest are 
summarized below:

                                          Year Ended December 31,
                                     ----------------------------------
                                          (Millions of dollars)
                                     1994            1993          1992
                                     ----            ----          ----
  Interest Incurred                $ 536.3          $154.5        $195.7
  Interest Income                  $  32.6          $  9.1        $  1.1
  Capitalized Interest             $   9.6          $   .4        $   .5

Scheduled maturities of long-term debt of the Company through December 31, 1999,
assuming full utilization of the commitments under the credit agreements (after
giving effect to the reduction in commitments resulting from the sale of MSG), 
are $1.9 billion (1996), $163 million (1997), $1.0 billion (1998) and $1.5 
billion (1999).

6) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The Company's carrying value of the financial instruments approximates fair 
value, except for differences with respect to the senior subordinated debt and 
certain differences related to other financial instruments which are not 
significant.  The carrying value of the senior and senior subordinated debt is 
$2.5 billion and the fair value, which is estimated based on quoted market 
prices, is approximately $2.4 billion.

The Company enters into interest rate exchange agreements with off-balance sheet
risk in order to reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates on its 
variable rate long-term debt and/or take advantage of changes in interest rates.
These interest rate exchange agreements include interest rate swaps and interest
rate caps. At December 31, 1994, the Company had $2.1 billion of interest rate 
exchange agreements outstanding with commercial banks.  $1.6 billion of these 
agreements, which expire over the next three years, effectively change the 
Company's interest rate on an equivalent amount of variable rate borrowings to 
a fixed rate of 6.8%. The remaining $500 million of interest rate exchange 
agreements, which expire during 1995, effectively convert $500 million of its 
debt from an average fixed rate of 7.9% to a variable rate (8.0% at 
December 31). The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of 
nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements.  However, the Company 
does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties.

The Company enters into foreign currency exchange contracts in order to reduce 
its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  To date, the 
hedges have been purchased options and forward contracts.  A forward contract 
is an agreement between parties to purchase and sell a foreign currency, for a 
price specified at the contract date, with delivery and settlement in the 
future.  An option contract provides the right, but not the obligation, to buy 
or sell currency at a fixed rate on a future date.  At December 31, 1994, the 
Company had outstanding contracts with a notional value of approximately $36 
million, which hedge the European Currency Unit and Japanese Yen, and expire 
in 1995 and 1996.  Realized gains and losses on contracts that hedge expected 
future cash flows are recognized in "Other Items, Net" and were not material 
in the current period.

                                     II-31


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

7) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

On July 7, 1994 and September 29, 1994, the Company issued equity securities to
holders of Paramount Communications and Blockbuster common stock, respectively
(See Note 2).

During March 1994, Blockbuster purchased 22.7 million shares of Viacom Class B
Common Stock at a price of $55 per share.  The common stock was canceled upon
consummation of the Blockbuster Merger.

On October 22, 1993, Blockbuster purchased 24 million shares of cumulative
convertible preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company ("Series A
Preferred Stock") for $600 million.  The Preferred Stock purchased by 
Blockbuster was canceled upon consummation of the Blockbuster Merger.  On 
November 19, 1993, NYNEX Corporation ("NYNEX") purchased 24 million shares of 
cumulative convertible preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the 
Company ("Series B Preferred Stock," collectively with the Series A Preferred 
Stock, "Preferred Stock") for $1.2 billion.  Series B Preferred Stock has a 
liquidation preference of $50 per share,  an annual dividend rate of 5%, is 
convertible into shares of Viacom Class B Common Stock at a conversion price 
of $70 and does not have voting rights other than those required by law.  The 
Series B Preferred Stock is redeemable by the Company at declining premiums 
after five years.

NAI holds approximately 26% and the public holds approximately 74% of the
Company's outstanding Common Stock as of December 31, 1994.  NAI owns 61% of 
the outstanding Viacom Class A Common Stock as of December 31, 1994.

Long-Term Incentive Plans - The purpose of the Long-Term Incentive Plans (the
"Plans") is to benefit and advance the interests of the Company by rewarding
certain key employees for their contributions to the financial success of the
Company and thereby motivating them to continue to make such contributions in
the future.  The Plans provide for grants of equity-based interests pursuant to
awards of phantom shares, stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
shares or other equity-based interests ("Awards"), and for subsequent payments
of cash with respect to phantom shares or stock appreciation rights based,
subject to certain limits, on their appreciation in value over stated periods of
time.

During December 1992, a significant portion of the liability associated with the
phantom shares was satisfied through the cash payment of $68.6 million and the
issuance of 177,897 shares of Viacom Class B Common Stock valued at $6.9 
million.

In addition to the 25.0 million stock option Awards outstanding under various
plans, as of December 31, 1994 there are phantom shares for 643,098 shares of
common stock all of which are vested, at an average grant price of $29 and vest
over a three year period from the date of grant.  The stock options generally 
vest over a four to six year period from the date of grant and expire 10 years 
after the date of grant.
                                     II-32


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

Each of the unexercised stock options to purchase Paramount or Blockbuster
common stock that was outstanding at the time of the respective mergers,
automatically became options to purchase the merger consideration applicable to
the stock option under the same price and terms, except that, for employees of
Paramount Communications who were employees on the date of the Paramount Merger,
additional Viacom Class B Common Stock valued July 1995, will be issued on
exercise of such options as consideration for the cash portion of the blended
purchase price per share of Paramount Communications that was not reflected in
the Merger consideration because of the transaction structure.  These options
generally became vested upon the effective date of the Merger, and are
exercisable over a three to five year period and expire 10 years after the date
of grant.

The following table summarizes the stock activity under the various plans:



The Company has reserved 1,847,302 shares of Viacom Class A Common Stock and
57,577,294 shares of Viacom Class B Common Stock principally for exercise of
stock options and warrants, the conversion of the Preferred Stock, CVRs and
VCRs.  Such shares are based on the average market value of Viacom Class B
Common Stock as of March 27, 1995.

                                     II-33


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

8) INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes shown below for the years ended December 31,
1994, 1993 and 1992 represents federal, state and foreign income taxes on
earnings before income taxes.  Earnings (loss) accounted for under the equity
method of accounting are shown net of tax on the Company's Statement of
Operations.  The tax provision (benefit) relating to earnings (loss) from equity
investments in 1994, 1993 and 1992 are $9.8 million, $(.6) million and $(2.2)
million, respectively.  See Note 3 and 5 for tax benefits relating to the
Discontinued Operations and Extraordinary Losses.

During the first quarter of 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109") on a
prospective basis and recognized an increase to earnings of $10.4 million in
1993 as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.  SFAS 109
mandates the liability method for computing deferred income taxes.

Earnings before income taxes are attributable to the following jurisdictions:

                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                      1994              1993            1992
                                     ------             ------         ------
                                               (Millions of dollars)

United States                        $179.4             $267.8         $138.2
Foreign                               197.3               34.0           17.4
                                     ------             ------         ------
Total                                $376.7             $301.8         $155.6
                                     ------             ------         ------
                                     ------             ------         ------

Components of the provision for income taxes on earnings before income taxes are
as follows:

                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                      1994              1993            1992
                                     ------             ------         ------
                                                (Millions of dollars)
Current:
  Federal                            $139.1              $89.5          $47.3
  State and local                      78.3               10.4           17.9
  Foreign                              65.8                5.6            4.6
                                     ------             ------         ------
                                      283.2              105.5           69.8

Deferred                               (3.5)              24.3           15.0
                                     ------             ------         ------
                                     $279.7             $129.8          $84.8
                                     ------             ------         ------
                                     ------             ------         ------

                                     II-34


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

A reconciliation of the U.S. Federal statutory tax rate to the Company's
effective tax rate on earnings before income taxes is summarized as
follows:

                                                Year Ended December 31,
                                      1994              1993            1992
                                     ------             ------         ------
Statutory U.S. tax rate               35.0%              35.0%          34.0%
State and local taxes, net
  of federal tax benefit               6.6                5.7            4.7
Effect of foreign operations            .2                 .5            1.9
Amortization of intangibles           25.9                7.1           18.2
Divestiture tax versus book            1.5               (3.2)            --
Property and equipment basis
  difference                            --                 --            7.2
Income tax reserve adjustment           --               (5.0)         (12.9)
Effect of changes in statutory rate     --                 .5             --
Other, net                             5.1                2.4            1.4
                                      ----               ----           ----
  Effective tax rate                  74.3%              43.0%          54.5%
                                      =====              =====          =====

The annual effective tax rate of 43% for 1993 and 54.5% for 1992 includes a
reduction of certain prior year tax reserves in the amount of $22 million and
$20 million, respectively.  The reduction is based on management's view
concerning the outcome of several tax issues based upon the progress of
federal, state and local audits.

                                     II-35


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

The following is a summary of the deferred tax accounts in accordance with SFAS
109 for the year ended December 31, 1994 and 1993.


As of December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1993, the Company had total non-current
deferred net tax assets (liabilities) of $605.4 million and ($85.2) million, and
current deferred net tax assets of $193.8 million and $16.3 million, 
respectively. The 1994 net deferred tax assets include a valuation allowance 
of $75.7 million, principally relating to acquired net operating loss and tax 
credit carryforwards which are subject to statutory limitations.

As of December 31, 1994, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $239 million, capital loss carryforwards of approximately $10
million and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $12 million, which were
acquired by the Company as a result of its 1994 mergers with Paramount
Communications and Blockbuster.  The carryforwards are subject to statutory
limitations which resulted from a change of ownership.  The carryforward periods
expire in years 1995 through 2009.

                                     II-36


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

The Company's share of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries not
included in its consolidated Federal income tax return that could be subject to
additional income taxes if remitted, was approximately $881 million at December
31, 1994.  No provision has been made for additional U.S. or foreign taxes that
could result from the remittance of such undistributed earnings since the
Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely, and it is not
practicable to estimate the amount of any such additional taxes.

The following table identifies the deferred tax items which were part of the
Company's tax provision under previously applicable accounting principles for
the year ended December 31, 1992 (millions of dollars):

Deferred compensation                                       $22.7
Depreciation                                                  7.6
Syndication advance payments                                  4.1
Litigation accrual                                          (13.3)
Sale of cable system                                         (6.9)
Other, net                                                     .9
                                                            -----
                                                            $15.1
                                                            -----
                                                            -----

9) PENSION PLANS, OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS AND
   POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have non-contributory pension plans
covering specific groups of employees.  The Company continues to maintain the
pension plans of the former Paramount Communications.  The benefits for these
plans are based primarily on an employee's years of service and pay near
retirement.  Participant employees are vested in the plans after five years of
service.  The Company's policy for all pension plans is to fund amounts in
accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.  Plan
assets consist principally of common stocks, marketable bonds and United States
government securities.

Net periodic pension cost consists of the following components:

                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                   1994         1993       1992
                                                   ----         ----       ----
                                                        (Millions of dollars)
Service cost - benefits earned during
   the period                                   $   22.1       $  5.4    $  4.6
Interest cost on projected benefit
   obligation                                       33.4          4.1       3.3
Return on plan assets:
  Actual                                             2.9         (1.8)     (1.4)
  Deferred                                         (37.7)        (1.1)      (.8)
Net amortizations                                     .6           .5        .5
                                                --------       ------    ------
Net pension cost                                $   21.3       $  7.1    $  6.2
                                                --------       ------    ------
                                                --------       ------    ------
                                     II-37


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

The funded status of the pension plans for the periods indicated is as follows:



The following assumptions were used in accounting for the pension plans:



In addition, during 1994, certain of the Company's employees participated in
multiemployer pension plans, for which the Company had other pension expense of
$10.9 million.

The Company sponsors a welfare plan which provides certain postretirement health
care and life insurance benefits to substantially all of the Paramount
Communications employees and their covered dependents who generally have worked
10 years and are eligible for early or normal retirement under the provisions of
the Paramount Communications retirement plan.  The welfare plan is contributory
and contains cost-sharing features such as deductible and coinsurance which are
adjusted annually.  The plan is not funded.  The Company continues to fund these
benefits as claims are paid.
                                     II-38


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


The components of the amount recognized as of December 31, 1994 are as follows
(in millions):

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation attributable to:   
Current retirees                                                     $  88.9
Fully eligible active plan participants                                 17.8
Other active plan participants                                          35.1
Unrecognized net gain                                                   21.4
                                                                     -------
Accumulated postretirement  benefit obligation                       $ 163.2
                                                                     -------
                                                                     -------
The components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the 
year ended December 31, 1994 are as follows (in millions):

Service costs-benefits earned                                        $ 4.4
Interest cost on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation         9.5
                                                                     ------
Net periodic postretirement benefit cost                             $13.9
                                                                     ------
                                                                     ------

For purposes of valuing the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, the
discount rate was 8.5%, the assumed weighted average health care cost trend
rates are 12% grading down to 5.5% over 8 years for retired both over and under
age 65, and 10% grading down to 5.5% over 7 years for managed care under age 65.
A one percentage point increase in each year of these health care cost trend
rates would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at
December 31, 1994 by $19.9 million, and increase the sum of the service and
interest cost components of net period postretirement benefit cost by $2.6
million.

In addition the Company contributed to multiemployer plans which provide health
and welfare benefits to active as well as retired employees.  The Company had
costs of $10.0 million related to these benefits during 1994.

In 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 
112, "Employers' Accounting For Postemployment Benefits" ("SFAS 112").  SFAS 
112 did not have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial 
position or results of operations.

10) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has long-term noncancellable lease commitments for office space and
equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles.

                                     II-39


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

At December 31, 1994, minimum rental payments under noncancellable leases are 
as follows:

                                               Operating                Capital
                                                 Leases                  Leases
                                                 ------                  ------
                                                     (Millions of dollars)
                                                                    
1995                                          $   487.1              $   28.9
1996                                              407.9                  23.7
1997                                              367.7                  21.4
1998                                              323.6                  23.1
1999                                              270.6                  20.6
2000 and thereafter                             1,373.9                  65.0
                                              ---------              --------
Total minimum lease payments                  $ 3,230.8                 182.7
Less amounts representing interest            =========                  55.2
                                                                     --------
Present value of net minimum payments                                  $127.5
                                                                     ========

The Company has also entered into capital leases for transponders with future
minimum commitments commencing in future periods of approximately $207.9
million payable over the next eleven years  Such commitments are contingent
upon the successful operation of satellites.  Future minimum capital lease
payments have not been reduced by future minimum sublease rentals of $23.7
million.  Rent expense amounted to $240.2 million (1994), $74.2 million (1993),
and $67.9 million (1992).

The commitments of the Company for program license fees, which are not
reflected in the balance sheet as of December 31, 1994 and are estimated to
aggregate approximately $2.0 billion, principally reflect commitments under
Showtime Networks Inc.'s ("SNI's") exclusive arrangements with several motion
picture companies.  This estimate is based upon a number of factors.  A
majority of such fees are payable over several years, as part of normal
programming expenditures of SNI.  These commitments are contingent upon
delivery of motion pictures which are not yet available for premium television
exhibition and, in many cases, have not yet been produced.

There are various lawsuits and claims pending against the Company.  Management
believes that any ultimate liability resulting from those actions or claims
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations
or financial position.

Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company from time to time receive
claims from Federal and state environmental regulatory agencies and other
entities asserting that they are or may be liable for environmental cleanup
costs and related damages, principally relating to discontinued operations
conducted by its former mining and manufacturing businesses (acquired as part of
the Mergers).  The Company has recorded a liability at approximately the mid-
point of its estimated range of environmental exposure.  Such liability was not
reduced by potential insurance recoveries and reflects management's estimate of
cost sharing at multiparty sites.  The estimated range of the potential
liability was calculated based upon currently available facts, existing
technology and presently enacted laws and regulations.  On the basis of

                                     II-40


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

its experience and the information currently available to it, the Company
believes that the claims it has received will not have a material adverse 
effect on its results of operations or financial position.

11) FOREIGN OPERATIONS

The consolidated financial statements include the following amounts applicable
to foreign subsidiaries:

                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                 -----------------------
                                              1994         1993        1992
                                              ----         ----        ----
                                                   (Millions of dollars)

Revenues                                   $  1,223.2     $122.2       $68.2
Earnings before income taxes               $    197.3     $ 34.0       $17.4
Net earnings                               $    170.9     $ 33.7       $16.4
Current assets                             $  1,021.3     $ 54.2       $47.8
Total assets                               $  2,397.6     $115.7       $73.9
Total liabilities                          $    784.9     $ 68.7       $57.4


Total export revenues were $137.4 million (1994), $25.2 million (1993) and 
$34.9 million (1992).

Foreign currency transaction gains and losses were immaterial in each period
presented.
                                     II-41



                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)




(1) The first quarter of 1994 reflects Paramount Communications' results of 
    operations commencing March 1, 1994 and merger-related charges of $332.1
    million. Results of operations of MSG have been restated to discontinued
    operations. The fourth quarter of 1994 reflects Blockbuster's results of
    operations commencing October 1, 1994. (See Notes 2 and 3.)
(2) The second quarter of 1994 reflects the pre-tax gain on the sale of the 
    one-third partnership interest in Lifetime of $267.4 million.  (See 
    Note 14.)
(3) The first quarter of 1993 reflects a pre-tax gain of $55 million related
    to the sale of the stock of Viacom Cablevision of Wisconsin, Inc. (See 
    Note 14.)

                                      II-43


                          VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

14) OTHER ITEMS, NET

On April 4, 1994, Viacom International sold its one-third partnership interest
in Lifetime for approximately $317.6 million, which resulted in a pre-tax gain
of approximately $267.4 million in the second quarter of 1994.  Proceeds from
the sale were used to reduce outstanding debt of Viacom International.

As part of the settlement of the Time Warner antitrust lawsuit, the Company
sold all the stock of Viacom Cablevision of Wisconsin, Inc. to Warner
Communications Inc. ("Warner").  This transaction was effective on January 1,
1993.  As consideration for the stock, Warner paid the sum of $46 million plus
repayment of debt under the Credit Agreement in the amount of $49 million,
resulting in a pre-tax gain of approximately $55 million reflected in "Other
items, net."  Also reflected in this line item is the net gain on the sale of a
portion of an investment held at cost and adjustments to previously established
non-operating litigation reserves, and other items.

"Other items, net" reflects a gain of $35 million recorded in the third quarter
of 1992; representing payments received in the third quarter relating to certain
aspects of the settlement of the Time Warner antitrust lawsuit, net of the
Company's 1992 legal expenses related to this lawsuit.  "Other items, net" also
reflects a reserve for litigation of $33 million during the second quarter of
1992 related to a summary judgment against the Company in a dispute with CBS 
Inc. arising under the 1970 agreement associated with the spin-off of Viacom
International Inc. by CBS Inc.  On July 30, 1993, the Company settled all
disputes arising under such litigation.


15) SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION




                                     II-44


                        VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

16) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

  Viacom International is a wholly owned subsidiary of Viacom. Viacom's 
  guarantees of the Viacom International debt securities are full and 
  unconditional (See Note 5). Viacom has determined that separate financial 
  statements and other disclosures concerning Viacom International are not 
  material to investors. On January 3, 1995, Paramount Communications was 
  merged into Viacom International and, therefore, the net assets of
  Paramount Communications (reflected in non-guarantor affiliates) which
  includes approximately $1.0 billion of issuances of long-term debt 
  became obligations of Viacom International.

  The following condensed consolidating financial statements present the 
  results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Viacom, Viacom 
  International (carrying any investments in non-guarantor affiliates under 
  the equity method), and non-guarantor affiliates of Viacom, and the 
  eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for the Company on a
  consolidated basis. Financial statements of Viacom International for 1993 and 
  1992 as previously filed on Form 10-K are incorporated by reference herein.


                                    II-45



                      VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

          NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)


                                                   II-46



                        VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)



Item 9. Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure - Not applicable.

                              II-47




                               VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

  The following consolidated financial statements and schedule of the
  registrant and its subsidiaries are submitted herewith as part of this
  report:



  All other Schedules are omitted since the required information is not present.




                                       F-1




        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

        To the Board of Directors and
        Shareholders of Viacom Inc.

        Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in
        our report dated February 10, 1995,appearing on page II-14 of this
        annual report on Form 10-K also included an audit of the Financial
        Statement Schedule listed in Item 14(a) of this Form 10-K. In our
        opinion, the Financial Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all
        material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
        conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.

        PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

        1177 Avenue of the Americas
        New York, New York 10036
        February 10, 1995





                                           F-2





                           VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



Notes:
(A) Primarily represents adjustments made as part of the Mergers.
(B) Represents balance sheet reclassifications related to certain entertainment
    receivables.
(C) Includes amounts written off, net of recoveries.



                                                      F-3




                                        
                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers.

          The information contained in the Viacom Inc.
Definitive Proxy Statement under the caption "Information
Concerning Directors and Nominees" is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.

          The information contained in the Viacom Inc.
Definitive Proxy Statement under the captions "Directors'
Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management.

          The information contained in the Viacom Inc.
Definitive Proxy Statement under the caption "Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

          The information contained in the Viacom Inc.
Definitive Proxy Statement under the caption "Related
Transactions" is incorporated herein by reference.





                            III-1




                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
Reports on Form 8-K.

          (a) and (d) Financial Statements and Schedules
(see Index on Page F-1)

          (b)       Reports on Form 8-K

          Current Report on Form 8-K of Viacom Inc. with a report
          date of October 18, 1994
          relating to the commencement of a litigation
          concerning Blockbuster's acquisition of the
          plaintiffs' interests in a limited partnership.

          Current Report on Form 8-K of Viacom Inc. with a report
          date of December 15, 1994
          relating to the institution of cross-guarantees by
          each of Viacom Inc., Viacom International Inc. and
          Paramount Communications Inc.

          (c)       Exhibits (see index on Page E-1)







                            IV-1







                                   SIGNATURES

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or
15(D) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Viacom Inc.
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.

                                            VIACOM INC.

                                 By  /s/ Frank J. Biondi, Jr.
                                         ------------------------------
                                         Frank J. Biondi, Jr., President,
                                         Chief Executive Officer

                                 By  /s/ George S. Smith, Jr.
                                         ------------------------------
                                         George S. Smith, Jr., Senior Vice
                                         President, Chief Financial Officer

                                 By  /s/ Kevin C. Lavan
                                         ------------------------------
                                         Kevin C. Lavan, Senior Vice President,
                                         Controller, Chief Accounting Officer

Date: March 31, 1995

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the
following persons on behalf of Viacom Inc. and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated:

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    George S. Abrams, Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    Steven R. Berrard, Director

          By  /s/ Frank J. Biondi, Jr   .                     March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Director

          By  /s/ Philippe P. Dauman                          March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    Philippe P. Dauman, Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    William C. Ferguson, Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    H. Wayne Huizenga, Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    George D. Johnson, Jr., Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    Ken Miller, Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    Brent D. Redstone, Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    Sumner M. Redstone, Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    Shari Redstone, Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    Frederic V. Salerno, Director

          By                  *                               March 31, 1995
             -------------------------------------
                    William Schwartz, Director

        * By  /s/ Philippe P. Dauman                          March 31, 1995
             ---------------------------------------
                    Philippe P. Dauman
                    Attorney-in-Fact
                    for the Directors





                      VIACOM INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                               ITEM 14(C)

EXHIBIT NO.            DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT         PAGE NO.

(2)  Plan of Acquisition

 (a)    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of
        January 7, 1994, as amended as of June 15, 1994, between
        Viacom Inc. and Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 1 to the Registration
        Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-
        55271).

 (b)    Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of
        Merger dated as of February 4, 1994 between Viacom Inc.
        and Paramount Communications Inc., as further amended as
        of May 26, 1994, among Viacom, Viacom Sub Inc. and
        Paramount Communications Inc. (incorporated by reference
        to Exhibit 2.1, included as Annex I, to the Registration
        Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-
        53977).

(3)  Articles of Incorporation and By-laws

 (a)    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Viacom
        Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the
        Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal
        year ended December 31, 1992, as amended by Form 10-K/A
        Amendment No. 1 dated November 29, 1993 and as
        further amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 dated
        December 9, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).

 (b)    Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
        Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the
        Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.
        (File No. 33-55271).

 (c)    Certificate of Merger merging Blockbuster Entertainment
        Corporation with and into Viacom Inc. (incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement on
        Form S-3 filed by Viacom Inc. ) (File No. 33-55785).

                              E-1


 (d)    Certificate of the Designations, Powers,
        Preferences and Relative, Participating or other Rights, and
        the Qualifications, Limitations or Restrictions thereof, of
        Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock ($0.01 par
        value) of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        4.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc.
        for the quarter ended September 30, 1993) (File No. 1-
        9553)

 (e)    By-laws of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Registration Statement on
        Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-13812).

(4)  Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including indentures:

 (a)    Specimen certificate representing the Viacom
        Inc. Voting Common Stock (currently Class A Common
        Stock) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
        Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc. )
        (File No. 33-13812).

 (b)    Specimen certificate representing Viacom Inc.
        Class B Non-Voting Common Stock (incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the Quarterly Report on Form
        10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended June 30, 1990)
        (File No. 1-9553).

 (c)    Specimen certificate representing Viacom Inc.
        Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of Viacom
        Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the
        Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal
        year ended December 31, 1993, as amended by Form 10-
        K/A Amendment No. 1 dated May 2, 1994) (File No. 1-
        9533).

 (d)    Form of Contingent Value Rights Agreement between
        Viacom Inc. and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee
        (including the Form of Contingent Value Right)
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Registration
        Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc. ) (File No. 33-
        53977).

 (e)    Form of Warrant Agreement between Viacom Inc.
        and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Warrant Agent with
        respect to the Warrants expiring July 1, 1997 of Viacom
        Inc. (including the Form of Warrant expiring July 1, 1997)
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the Registration
        Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-
        53977).

                                   E-2



 (f)    Form of Warrant Agreement between Viacom Inc.
        and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Warrant Agent with
        respect to the Warrants expiring July 1, 1999 of Viacom
        Inc. (including the Form of Warrant expiring July 1, 1999)
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Registration
        Statement on Form S-4 filed by Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-
        53977).

 (g)    Form of Certificate representing the Variable Common
        Rights of Viacom Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        4.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by
        Viacom Inc.) (File No. 33-55271).

 (h)    Credit Agreement dated as of July 1, 1994 among Viacom
        Inc.; the Bank parties thereto; The Bank of New York
        ("BNY"), Citibank N.A. ("Citibank"), Morgan Guaranty
        Trust Company of New York and Bank of America
        NT&SA, as Managing Agents; BNY, as Documentation
        Agent; Citibank, as Administrative Agent: JP Morgan
        Securities Inc., as Syndication Agent: and the Agents and
        Co-Agents named therein (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Viacom
        Inc. dated July 22, 1994) (File No. 1-9553).

 (i)    Credit Agreement dated as of September 29, 1994,
        among Viacom Inc., the Banks parties thereto, the Bank of
        New York, as a Managing Agent and as the Documentation
        Agent, Citibank, N.A, as a Managing Agent and as the
        Administrative Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of
        New York, as a Managing Agent, JP Morgan Securities
        Inc., as the Syndication Agent, The Bank of America
        NT&SA, as a Managing Agent, and the Banks named as
        Agents therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to
        the Current Report on Form 8-K of Viacom Inc. dated
        September 29, 1994) (File No. 1-9553).

 (j)    The instruments defining the rights of holders of the
        long-term debt securities of Viacom Inc. and its subsidiaries
        are omitted pursuant to section (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of
        Regulation S-K. Viacom Inc. hereby agrees to furnish
        copies of these instruments to the Securities and Exchange
        Commission upon request.


                                   E-3



(10) Material Contracts

 (a)    Viacom Inc. 1989 Long-Term Management
        Incentive Plan (as amended and restated through April 23,
        1990) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Viacom
        Inc.'s Definitive Proxy Statement dated April 27. 1990).

 (b)    Viacom Inc. 1994 Long-Term Management
        Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to
        Viacorn Inc.'s Proxy Statement/Prospectus dated June 6,
        1994). *

 (c)    Viacom Inc. Senior Executive Short-Term Incentive
        Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Viacom
        Inc.'s Proxy Statement/Prospectus dated June 6, 1994). *

 (d)    Viacom Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Viacom Inc.'s
        Definitive Proxy Statement dated April 29, 1988), and
        amendment thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        10(d) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc.
        for the fiscal year ended December 21, 1991 ) (File No. 1 -
        9553), and as further amended by amendment dated
        December 17, 1992 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
        10(d) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc.
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992, as amended
        by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 1 dated November 29,
        1993 and as further amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment
        No. 2 dated December 9, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*

 (e)    Viacom Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (Divisional)
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly
        Reports on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended
        June 30, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*

 (f)    Viacom International Inc. Deferred
        Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (as
        amended and restated through December 17, 1992)
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Annual
        Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year
        ended December 31, 1992, as amended by Form 10-K/A
        Amendment No. 1 dated November 29, 1993 and as further
        amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 dated
        December 9, 1993) (File No. 1-9553).*

 (g)    Viacom Inc. and Viacom International Inc.
        Retirement Income Plan for Non-Employee Directors
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual

---------------

* Management contract or compensatory plan required to be
  filed as an exhibit to this form pursuant to Item 14(c).

                                   E-4



        Reports on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year
        ended December 31, 1989) (File No. 1-9553).*

 (h)    Viacom Inc. Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
        Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the
        quarter ended June 30, 1993)(File No. 1-9553).

 (i)    Viacom Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
        Directors (filed herewith). *

 (j)    Excess Benefits Investment Plan for Certain
        Key Employees of Viacom International Inc. (effective April
        1, 1984 and amended as of January 1, 1990) (incorporated
        by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to the Annual Report on Form
        10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
        1990) (File No. 1-9553).*

 (k)    Excess Pension Plan for Certain Key Employees
        of Viacom International Inc. (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10(i) to the Annual Reports on Form 10-K of
        Viacom Inc. and Viacom International Inc. for the fiscal
        year ended December 31, 1990) (File Nos. 1-9553/1-
        9554).*

 (l)    Employment Agreement, dated as of August 1,
        1994, between Viacom Inc. and Frank J. Biondi, Jr.
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly
        Report on Form 10-Q of Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended
        September 30, 1994) (File No. 1-9533). Agreement under
        the Viacom Inc. 1994 Long-Term Management Incentive
        Plan, dated as of August 18, 1994, between Viacom Inc.
        and Frank J. Biondi, Jr. (incorporated by reference to
        Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of
        Viacom Inc. for the quarter ended September 30, 1994)
        (File No. 1-9533)*

 (m)    Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1990, between
        Viacom International Inc. and Mark M. Weinstein
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to the Annual
        Reports on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. and Viacom
        International Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,
        1990) (File Nos. 1-9553/1-9554), as amended by an
        Agreement dated as of February 1, 1993 (incorporated by
        reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Annual Report on Form
        10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year ended December 31,

----------------------

* Management contract or compensatory plan required to be
  filed as an exhibit to this form pursuant to Item 14(c).

                                  E-5


        1992, as amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 1
        dated November 29. 1993 and as further amended by Form
        10-K/A Amendment No. 2 dated December 9. 1993) (File
        No. 1-9553), and as further amended by an Agreement
        dated February 7, 1995 (filed herewith). *

 (n)    Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1994, between
        Viacom Inc. and Thomas E. Dooley (filed herewith)*.
        Letter Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1994, between
        Viacom Inc. and Thomas E. Dooley (filed herewith).*

 (o)    Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1994, between
        Viacom Inc. and Edward D. Horowitz (filed herewith).*
        Letter Agreement, dated as of July 1, 1994, between
        Viacom Inc. and Edward D. Horowitz (filed herewith). *

 (p)    Agreement, dated as of February 1, 1993. between
        Viacom International Inc. and Philippe P. Dauman
        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Annual
        Report on Form 10-K of Viacom Inc. for the fiscal year
        ended December 31, 1992, as amended by Form 10-K/A
        Amendment No. 1 dated December 29. 1993 and as further
        amended by Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 dated
        December 9, 1993) (File No. 1-9553), as amended by an
        Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1994, between Viacom
        Inc., Viacom International Inc. and Philippe P. Dauman
        (filed herewith). * Letter Agreement, dated as of April 1,
        1994, between Viacom Inc. and Philippe P. Dauman (filed
        herewith). *

 (q)    Service Agreement, dated as of March 1. 1994.
        between George S. Abrams and Viacom Inc. (filed
        herewith). *

 (r)    Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation ("BEC") stock
        option plans* assumed by Viacom Inc. after the Blockbuster
        Merger consisting of the following:

          (i) BEC's 1989 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
        reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated March 31,
        1989)

          (ii) Amendments to BEC's 1989 Stock Option Plan
        (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy Statement
        dated April 3, 1991 )

--------------------

* Management contract or compensatory plan required to be
filed as an exhibit to this form pursuant to Item 14(c).

                                E-6





           (iii) BECs 1990 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
        reference to BEC's Proxy Statement dated March 29.
        1990)

           (iv) Amendments to BEC's 1990 Stock Option Plan
        (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy Statement
        dated April 15.1991 )

           (v) BEC's 1991 Employee Director Stock Option
        Plan (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy
        Statement dated April 15.1991 )

           (vi) BEC's 1991 Non-Employee Director Stock
        Option Plan (incorporated by reference to BEC's Proxy
        Statement dated April 15, 1991 )

           (vii) BEC's 1994 Stock Option Plan (incorporated
        by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Annual Report on
        Form 10-K of BEC for the fiscal year ended December
        31, 1993)(File No. 0-12700)

 (s)    Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of January. 20,
        1995 among Tele-Vue Systems, Inc., Viacom International
        Inc., Intermedia Partners, IV. L.P. and RCS Pacific, L.P.
        (filed herewith).

 (11)    Statements re Computation of Net Earnings Per Share

 (21)    Subsidiaries of Viacom Inc.

 (23)    Consents of Experts and Counsel

  (a)    Consent of price Waterhouse

 (24)    Powers of Attorney

 (27)    Financial Data Schedule


                                     E-7





