10-K


a2176251z10-k.htm

10-K

QuickLinks

-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

001-14469

(Commission File No.)

04-6268599

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

225 West Washington Street

Indianapolis, Indiana 46204

(Address of principal executive offices) (ZIP Code)

(317) 636-1600

(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

Common stock, $0.0001 par value

New York Stock Exchange

7.89% Series G Cumulative Step-Up Premium Rate Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value

New York Stock Exchange

6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value

New York Stock Exchange



/


% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act). YES

ý

NO

o

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. YES

o

NO

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. YES

ý

NO

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer.

Large
accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated
filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by checkmark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12-b of the
Act). YES

o

NO

ý

The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $17,885 million based on the
closing sale price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on June 30, 2006.

As
of January 31, 2007, Simon Property Group, Inc. had 221,575,842, 8,000 and 4,000 shares of common stock, Class B common stock and Class C common stock
outstanding, respectively.

Documents Incorporated By Reference

Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV; and portions of the
Registrant's Proxy Statement in connection with its 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Annual Report on Form 10-K

December 31, 2006


Item No.

Page No.

Part I

1.

Business


1A.

Risk Factors


1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


2.

Properties


3.

Legal Proceedings


4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


Part II

5.

Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters,

and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


6.

Selected Financial Data


7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk


8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting

and Financial Disclosure


9A.

Controls and Procedures


9B.

Other Information


Part III

10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


11.

Executive Compensation


12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence


14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services


Part IV

15.

Exhibits, and Financial Statement Schedules


Signatures



Part I

Item 1. Business

Background

Simon Property Group, Inc. ("Simon Property") is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real
estate investment trust ("REIT"). Simon Property Group, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership") is a majority-owned partnership subsidiary of Simon Property that owns all of our real estate properties. In
this report, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership and their subsidiaries.

We
are engaged primarily in the ownership, development, and management of retail real estate, primarily regional malls, Premium Outlet® centers and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2006, we owned or held an interest in 286 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 171 regional malls, 36 Premium Outlet centers, 69
community/lifestyle centers, and 10 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 38 states and Puerto Rico (collectively, the "Properties", and individually, a "Property"). We also own interests in
five parcels of land held for future development (together with the Properties, the "Portfolio"). In the United States, we have five new properties currently under development aggregating
approximately 3.5 million square feet which will open during 2007 or early 2008. Internationally, we have ownership interests in 53 European shopping centers (in France, Italy and Poland), five
Premium Outlet centers in Japan, and one Premium Outlet center in Mexico. We also have begun construction on a Premium Outlet center in which we will hold a 50% interest located in South Korea and,
through a joint venture arrangement, we will have a 32.5% interest in five shopping centers (four of which are under construction) in China.

Operating Policies and Strategies

The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect to certain other activities.
One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote.

Investment Policies

We conduct our investment activities through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries. Our primary business objectives are to increase Funds From Operations
("FFO") per share, operating results and the value of our Properties while maintaining a strong, stable balance sheet consistent with our financing policies. We intend to achieve these objectives by:

•

developing
new shopping centers which meet our economic criteria;

•

renovating
and/or expanding our Properties where appropriate;

•

acquiring
additional shopping centers and portfolios of other retail real estate companies that meet our investment criteria;

•

pursuing
a leasing strategy that capitalizes on the desirable location of our Properties;

•

generating
additional revenues through merchandising, marketing and promotional activities;

•

adding
mixed-use elements to our Portfolio through our asset intensification initiatives, such as multifamily, condominiums, hotel and self-storage
elements at selected locations; and

•

improving
the performance of our Properties by using the economies of scale that result from our size to help control operating costs.

We
cannot assure you that we will achieve our business objectives.

We
develop and acquire properties to generate both current income and long-term appreciation in value. We do not limit the amount or percentage of assets that may be
invested in any particular property or type of property or in any geographic area. We may purchase or lease properties for long-term investment or develop, redevelop, and/or sell our
Properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant. We participate with other entities in property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership. These equity
investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness that have priority over our equity interest.

While
we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may, at our discretion, invest in mortgages and other real estate interests consistent with our qualification as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code ("Code"). We do not currently intend to invest to a significant extent in mortgages or deeds of trust; however, we hold an interest in one


Property
through a mortgage note which results in us receiving 100% of the economics of the Property. We may invest in participating or convertible mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from
the cash flow or any appreciation in the value of the property.

We
may also invest in securities of other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers. However, any of these investments would be subject to the percentage
ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for REIT qualification under the Code. These REIT limitations mean that we cannot make an investment that would cause our real estate assets to
be less than 75% of our total assets. In addition, at least 75% of our gross income must be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property,
including "rents from real property," dividends from other REIT's and, in certain circumstances, interest from certain types of temporary investments. At least 95% of our income must be derived from
such real property investments, and from dividends, interest and gains from the sale or dispositions of stock or securities or from other combinations of the foregoing.

Subject
to these REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would
normally be in the form of general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the
future, acquire all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies.

Financing Policies

We must comply with the covenant restrictions of the debt agreements of the Operating Partnership that limit our ratio of debt to total market valuation. For
example, the Operating Partnership's lines of credit and the indentures for the Operating Partnership's debt securities contain covenants that restrict the total amount of debt of the Operating
Partnership to 65%, or 60% in relation to certain debt, of total assets, as defined under the related arrangement, and secured debt to 50% of total assets. In addition, these agreements contain other
covenants requiring compliance with financial ratios. Furthermore, the amount of debt that we may incur is limited as a practical matter by our desire to maintain acceptable ratings for our equity
securities and the debt securities of the Operating Partnership.

If
our Board of Directors ("Board") determines to seek additional capital, we may raise such capital through additional equity offerings, debt financing, creating joint ventures with
existing ownership interests in Properties, retention of cash flows or a combination of these methods. Our ability to retain cash flows is subject to Code provisions requiring REITs to distribute a
certain percentage of their taxable income. We must also take into account taxes that would be imposed on undistributed taxable income. If the Board determines to raise additional equity capital, it
may, without stockholder approval, issue additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. The Board may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our authorized capital in any manner and
on such terms and for such consideration as it deems appropriate. This may include issuing stock in exchange for property. Such securities may be senior to the outstanding classes of common stock.
Such securities also may include additional classes of preferred stock, which may be convertible into common stock. Existing stockholders will have no preemptive right to purchase shares in any
subsequent offering of our securities. Any such offering could dilute a stockholder's investment in us.

We
anticipate that any additional borrowings would be made through the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. We might, however, incur borrowings that would be reloaned to the
Operating Partnership. Borrowings may be in the form of bank borrowings, publicly and privately placed debt instruments, or purchase money obligations to the sellers of properties. Any of such
indebtedness may be unsecured or may be secured by any or all of our assets, the Operating Partnership or any existing or new property-owning partnership. Any such indebtedness may also have full or
limited recourse to all or any portion of the assets of any of the foregoing. Although we may borrow to fund the payment of dividends, we currently have no expectation that we will regularly be
required to do so.

We
may obtain unsecured or secured lines of credit. We also may determine to issue debt securities. Any such debt securities may be convertible into capital stock or be accompanied by
warrants to purchase capital stock. We also may sell or securitize our lease receivables. The proceeds from any borrowings or financings may be used for the following:

•

financing
acquisitions;

•

developing
or redeveloping properties;

•

refinancing
existing indebtedness;

•

working
capital or capital improvements; or


•

meeting
the income distribution requirements applicable to REITs, if we have income without the receipt of cash sufficient to enable us to meet such distribution
requirements.

We
also may determine to finance acquisitions through the following:

•

issuance
of shares of common stock;

•

issuance
of shares of preferred stock;

•

issuance
of additional units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership;

•

issuance
of preferred units of the Operating Partnership;

•

issuance
of other securities; or

•

sale
or exchange of ownership interests in Properties.

The
ability to offer units of limited partnership interest to transferors may result in beneficial tax treatment for the transferors. This is because the exchange of units for
properties may defer gain recognition for tax purposes by the transferor. It may also be advantageous for us since certain investors may be limited in the number of shares of our capital stock that
they may purchase.

If
the Board determines to obtain additional debt financing, we intend to do so generally through mortgages on Properties, borrowings under our revolving lines of credit or term loan
facilities, or the issuance of unsecured debt through the Operating Partnership. We may do this directly or through an entity owned or controlled by us. The mortgages may be non-recourse,
recourse, or cross-collateralized. We do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. Mortgage financing instruments, however, usually
limit additional indebtedness on such properties.

Typically,
we invest in or form special purpose entities only to obtain permanent financing for Properties on attractive terms. Permanent financing for Properties is typically
structured as a mortgage loan on one or a group of Properties in favor of an institutional third party, as a joint venture with a third party, or as a securitized financing. For securitized
financings, we are required to create special purpose entities to own the Properties. These special purpose entities are structured so that they would not be consolidated with us in the event we would
ever become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding. We decide upon the structure of the financing based upon the best terms then available to us and whether the proposed financing is consistent with our
other business objectives. For accounting purposes, we include the outstanding securitized debt of special purpose entities owning consolidated Properties as part of our consolidated indebtedness.

Conflict of Interest Policies

We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted governance principles
governing our affairs and the Board, as well as written charters for each of the standing Committees of the Board. In addition, we have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of
our officers, directors, and employees. At least a majority of the members of our Board must qualify as independent under the listing standards for New York Stock Exchange companies and cannot be
affiliated with the Simon or DeBartolo families who are significant stockholders. Any transaction between us and the Simons or the DeBartolos, including property acquisitions, service and property
management agreements and retail space leases, must be approved by a majority of non-affiliated directors.

The
sale by the Operating Partnership of any property that it owns may have an adverse tax impact on the Simons or the DeBartolos and the other limited partners of the Operating
Partnership. In order to avoid any conflict of interest between Simon Property and the limited partners of the Operating Partnership, our charter requires that at least six of our independent
directors must authorize and require the Operating Partnership to sell any property it owns. Any such sale is subject to applicable agreements with third parties. Noncompetition agreements executed by
each of the Simons contain covenants limiting the ability of the Simons to participate in certain shopping center activities in North America.

Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities

We intend to make investments which are consistent with applicable REIT requirements of the Code, unless the Board determines that it is no longer in our best
interests to qualify as a REIT. The Board may make such a determination because of changing circumstances or changes in the REIT requirements. We have authority to offer shares of our capital stock or
other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or


otherwise
reacquire our shares or any other securities. We may engage in such activities in the future. We may issue shares of our common stock to holders of units of limited partnership interest in
the Operating Partnership in future periods upon exercise of such holders' rights under the Operating Partnership agreement. We may also repurchase shares of our common stock subject to Board
approval. It is our policy to not make any loans to our directors or executive officers for any purpose. We may make loans to joint ventures in which we participate.

Operating Strategies

We plan to achieve our primary business objectives through a variety of methods discussed below, although we cannot assure you that we will achieve such
objectives.

Leasing.

We pursue a leasing strategy that includes:

•

marketing
available space to maintain or increase occupancy levels;

•

renewing
existing leases and originating new leases at higher base rents per square foot;

•

negotiating
leases that allow us to recover from our tenants the majority of our property operating, real estate tax, and advertising and promotion expenditures; and

•

executing
leases that provide for percentage or overage rents and/or regular or periodic fixed contractual increases in base rents.

Management.

We draw upon our expertise gained through management of a geographically diverse Portfolio,
nationally recognized as comprising high quality retail and other Properties. In doing so, we seek to maximize cash flow through a combination of:

•

an
active merchandising program to maintain our shopping centers as inviting shopping destinations;

•

efforts
to minimize overhead and operating costs which not only benefits our operations but also reduces the costs reimbursed to us from our tenants. A tenant's ability to
pay rent is affected by the percentage of its sales represented by occupancy costs, which consist of rent and expense recoveries. As sales levels increase, if expenses subject to recovery are
controlled, the tenant can afford to pay higher base rent.

•

coordinated
marketing and promotional activities that establish and maintain customer loyalty; and

•

systematic
planning and monitoring of results.

We
believe that if we are successful in our efforts to increase sales while controlling operating expenses we will be able to continue to increase base rents at the Properties.

We
are the manager of substantially all our Properties held as joint venture Properties and as a result we derive revenues from management fees and other services.

Other Revenues.

Due to our size, tenant and vendor relationships, we also generate revenues from the
activities of:

•

Simon
Brand Ventures ("Simon Brand") obtains revenues from establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and
consumer-focused corporate alliances. Simon Brand revenues sources include: payment systems (including marketing fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national
marketing alliances, static and digital media initiatives, business development, sponsorship, and events.

•

Simon
Business Network ("Simon Business") revenues are derived from the offering of products and property operating services, resulting from its relationships with vendors,
to our tenants and others. These services include such items as waste handling, facility services, and energy services, as well as major capital expenditures such as roofing, parking lots and energy
systems.

We
also generate other revenues through the sale or lease of land adjacent to our Properties commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels."

International Expansion.

Our investments in properties that are under operation in Europe, Japan, and
Mexico are conducted through joint ventures. In Europe, we have investments in partnerships with Groupe Auchan (known as Gallerie Commerciali Italia ("GCI") in Italy) and Ivanhoe
Cambridge, Inc. (known as Simon Ivanhoe S.à.r.l. ("Simon Ivanhoe") in France and Poland). In Japan, our investments are in partnerships with Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd.
and Sojitz Corporation (formerly known as Nissho Iwai Corporation). Our Mexico investment is a joint venture with Sordo Madaleno y Asociados

.

We have also
formed a joint venture in South Korea to develop a Premium Outlet Center. We


and
our partner, Shinsegae Co., Ltd. and Shinsegae International Co., Ltd. (collectively "Shinsegae"), each own 50% of this partnership. Lastly, we have formed joint ventures with Morgan
Stanley Real Estate Fund ("MSREF") and SZITIC Commercial Property Co., Ltd. ("SZITIC CP") to develop five shopping centers in China. Four of these centers are currently under construction. We
account for our international joint venture activities under the equity method of accounting, as defined by accounting policies generally accepted in the United States.

We
believe that the expertise we have gained through the development, leasing, management, and marketing of our Properties in the United States can be utilized in retail properties
abroad. There are risks inherent in international operations that may be beyond our control which are described in the following section entitled "Risk Factors."

Acquisitions

The acquisition of high quality individual properties or portfolios of properties remain an integral component of our growth strategies. On November 1,
2006, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in Mall of Georgia, a regional mall Property, from our partner for $252.6 million, including the assumption of $96.0 million of debt. As a
result, we now own 100% of Mall of Georgia, and the property was consolidated as of the acquisition date.

During
2006, we also acquired an additional 15.3% net ownership in Simon Ivanhoe, increasing our ownership interest in this joint venture to 50% effective in the first quarter of 2006.

Dispositions

As part of our strategic plan to own high quality retail real estate, we continually evaluate our properties and sell those which no longer meet our strategic
criteria. We may use the capital generated from these dispositions to invest in higher-quality and higher-growth properties. We believe that the sale of these non-core Properties will not
have a material impact on our future results of operations or cash flows nor will their sale materially affect our ongoing operations. We expect that any earnings dilution from the sales on our
results of operations from these dispositions will be offset by the positive impact of acquisition, development and redevelopment activities.

During
the year ended December 31, 2006, we disposed of three consolidated properties and one joint venture property in which we held a 50% interest and accounted for under the
equity method. We received net proceeds of $52.7 million and recorded our share of a net gain on the disposals totaling $12.2 million. We do not believe the sale of these properties will
have a material impact on our future results of operations or cash flows. We believe the disposition of these properties will enhance the average overall quality of our Portfolio. In addition, we also
received capital transaction proceeds related to a beneficial interest that we held during 2006 in a mall partnership, which resulted in an $86.5 million gain, terminating our beneficial
interests in this entity.

Competition

We consider our principal competitors to be ten other major United States or internationally publicly-held companies that own or operate regional
malls, outlet centers, and other shopping centers in the United States and abroad. We also compete with many commercial developers, real estate companies and other owners of retail real estate that
operate in our trade areas. Some of our Properties and investments are of the same type and are within the same market area as competitor properties. The existence of competitive properties could have
a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the level of rents we can obtain. This results in competition for both the acquisition of prime sites (including land for development and
operating properties) and for tenants to occupy the space that we and our competitors develop and manage. In addition, our Properties compete against other forms of retailing, such as catalog and
e-commerce websites, that offer retail products and services.

We
believe that our Portfolio is the largest, as measured by gross leasable area ("GLA"), of any publicly-traded retail REIT. In addition, we own or have an interest in more regional
malls than any other publicly-traded REIT. We believe that we have a competitive advantage in the retail real estate business as a result of:

•

the
size, quality and diversity of our Properties;

•

our
management and operational expertise;

•

our
extensive experience and relationships with retailers and lenders;

•

our
mall marketing initiatives and consumer focused strategic corporate alliances, including those developed by Simon Brand and Simon Business; and

•

our
ability to use our size to reduce the total occupancy cost of our tenants.


Our
size reduces our dependence upon individual retail tenants. Approximately 4,200 different retailers occupy more than 24,000 stores in our Properties and no retail tenant represents
more than 3.8% of our Properties' total minimum rents.

Certain Activities

During the past three years, we have:

•

issued
7,365,739 shares of common stock upon the conversion of common units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership;

•

issued
1,181,241 restricted shares of common stock, net of forfeitures, under The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1998 Plan");

•

issued
1,014,066 shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options under 1998 Plan;

•

purchased
and retired 181,000 shares of common stock;

•

purchased
3,132,700 shares of common stock in the open market;

•

issued
12,978,795 shares of common stock in the Chelsea Property Group, Inc. ("Chelsea") acquisition;

•

issued
222,933 shares of common stock upon the conversion of 283,907 shares of Series I Preferred Stock;

•

repurchased
78,012 shares of Series H preferred stock in 2004;

•

issued
1,156,039 shares of Series D preferred stock in 2004 upon the conversion of Series D preferred units and repurchased 1,156,039 shares of Series D
preferred stock in 2004;

•

redeemed
all of the 1,000,000 shares of Series E preferred stock;

•

redeemed
all of the 8,000,000 shares of Series F preferred stock;

•

issued
13,261,712 shares of Series I preferred stock in the Chelsea acquisition;

•

issued
803,948 shares of Series I preferred stock upon the exchange of Series I preferred units;

•

issued
796,948 shares of Series J preferred stock in the Chelsea acquisition;

•

issued
and repurchased 8,000,000 shares of Series K preferred stock in 2006;

•

borrowed
a maximum amount of $2.0 billion under our unsecured revolving credit facility; the outstanding amount of borrowings under this facility as of
December 31, 2006 was $305.1 million;

•

as
a co-borrower with the Operating Partnership, borrowed $1.8 billion under an unsecured acquisition facility in connection with the Chelsea acquisition,
that has been fully repaid as of December 31, 2006;

•

provided
annual reports containing financial statements certified by our independent registered public accounting firm and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial
statements to our security holders.

•

not
made loans to other entities or persons, including our officers and directors, other than to certain joint venture properties;

•

not
invested in the securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control, other than the Operating Partnership, certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and to acquire
interests in real estate;

•

not
underwritten securities of other issuers; and

•

not
engaged in the purchase and sale or turnover of investments for the purpose of trading.

Employees

At January 26, 2007, we and our affiliates employed approximately 4,300 persons at various properties and offices throughout the United States, of which
approximately 1,600 were part-time. Approximately 1,000 of these employees were located at our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, IN and 140 were located at our Chelsea offices in
Roseland, NJ.

Corporate Headquarters

Our corporate headquarters are located at 225 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is (317) 636-1600.

Available Information

Our Internet website address is www.simon.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available or may be accessed free of charge
through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Financial Information" section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we


electronically
file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

The
following corporate governance documents are also available through the About Simon/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section of our Internet website or may be obtained in
print form by request of our Investor Relations Department: Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating Committee
Charter, Governance Committee Charter, and Executive Committee Charter.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the executive officers of Simon Property as of December 31, 2006.

Name

Age

Position

Melvin Simon (1)


Co-Chairman

Herbert Simon (1)


Co-Chairman

David Simon (1)


Chief Executive Officer

Richard S. Sokolov


President and Chief Operating Officer

Gary L. Lewis


Executive Vice President — Leasing

Stephen E. Sterrett


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

J. Scott Mumphrey


Executive Vice President — Property Management

John Rulli


Executive Vice President — Chief Operating Officer — Operating Properties

James M. Barkley


General Counsel; Secretary

Andrew A. Juster


Senior Vice President and Treasurer

(1)

Melvin
Simon is the brother of Herbert Simon and the father of David Simon.

Set
forth below is a summary of the business experience of the executive officers of Simon Property. The executive officers of Simon Property serve at the pleasure of
the Board. For biographical information of Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon, Richard S. Sokolov, Stephen E. Sterrett, and James M. Barkley, see Item 10 of this report.

Mr. Lewis
is the Executive Vice President — Leasing of Simon Property. Mr. Lewis joined Melvin Simon & Associates, Inc. ("MSA") in 1986 and held
various positions with MSA and Simon Property prior to becoming Executive Vice President in charge of Leasing of Simon Property in 2002.

Mr. Mumphrey
serves as Simon Property's Executive Vice President — Property Management. He joined MSA in 1974 and also held various positions with MSA before becoming
Senior Vice President of Property Management in 1993. In 2000, he became the President of Simon Business Network. Mr. Mumphrey became Executive Vice President — Property
Management in 2002.

Mr. Rulli
serves as Simon Property's Executive Vice President — Chief Operating Officer — Operating Properties and previously served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Administrative
Officer. He joined MSA in 1988 and held various positions with MSA before becoming Simon Property's Executive Vice President in 1993 and Chief Administrative Officer in 2000. In December 2003,
he was appointed to Executive Vice President — Chief Operating Officer — Operating Properties.

Mr. Juster
serves as Simon Property's Senior Vice President and Treasurer. He joined MSA in 1989 and held various financial positions with MSA until 1993 and thereafter has held
various positions with Simon Property. Mr. Juster became Treasurer in 2001.


Item 1A. Risk Factors

The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements
made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should not consider this list to be a
complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance.

Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets

We have a substantial debt burden that could affect our future operations.

As of December 31, 2006, our consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the related premium and discount, totaled $15.3 billion, of
which approximately $1.7 billion matures during 2007, including recurring principal amortization. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that
our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the Property, such as the entry of new
competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the Property. Should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. If a Property is mortgaged to secure
payment of indebtedness and income from the Property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the Property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our
total asset value.

We depend on external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service requirements.

We depend primarily on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet ongoing maturities of
our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets in general. We cannot assure you that we will
be able to obtain the financing we need for future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing available to us will be on acceptable terms.

Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.

Our outstanding senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The credit ratings are based on
our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and the economic outlook in
general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. Since we depend primarily on debt financing to fund our growth, adverse
changes in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our future growth.

Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk.

We manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of our variable rate
debt, or in the case of a fair value hedge, effectively convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are
appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be successful.

Our
use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a
hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest
rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of these hedging
agreements typically involve costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.

Rising interest rates could also make our equity securities less attractive.

One of the factors that may influence the price of our equity securities in public markets is the annual distribution rate we pay as compared with the yields on
alternative investments. Any significant increase in interest


rates
could lead holders of our equity securities to seek higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our equity securities.

Rising interest rates could adversely affect our debt service costs.

As of December 31, 2006, approximately $0.8 billion of our total consolidated debt, adjusted to reflect outstanding derivative instruments, was
subject to floating interest rates. In a rising interest rate environment, these debt service costs will increase. Increased debt service costs would adversely affect our cash flow. The impact of
changes in market rates of interest on the fair value of our debt and, in turn, our future earnings and cash flows appears elsewhere in this report.

Factors Affecting Real Estate Investments and Operations

We face risks associated with the acquisition, development and expansion of properties.

We regularly acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing Properties, and these activities are subject to various risks. We may not be
successful in pursuing acquisition, development or redevelopment/expansion opportunities. In addition, newly acquired, developed or redeveloped/expanded properties may not perform as well as expected.
We are subject to other risks in connection with any acquisition, development and redevelopment/expansion activities, including the following:

•

construction
costs of a project may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;

•

we
may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance construction loans on favorable terms, if at all;

•

we
may be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals;

•

occupancy
rates and rents may not meet our projections and the project may not be profitable; and

•

we
may need the consent of third parties such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners, and those consents may be withheld.

If
a development or redevelopment/expansion project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project
planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Further, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project.

We are subject to risks related to owning retail real estate.

We are subject to risks incidental to the ownership and operation of retail real estate. These risks include, among others:

•

the
risks normally associated with changes in the general economic climate;

•

trends
in the retail industry;

•

creditworthiness
of tenants;

•

competition
for tenants and customers;

•

consumer
confidence;

•

impact
of terrorist activities;

•

changes
in tax laws;

•

interest
and foreign currency exchange rates;

•

the
availability of financing; and

•

potential
liability under environmental and other laws.

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.

Our Properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These investments are relatively illiquid. As a result, our ability to sell one
or more of our Properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell a Property, we cannot assure you that we will be able
to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price of a Property will exceed the cost of our investment.


Environmental Risks

As owners of real estate, we can face liabilities for environmental contamination.

Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require us, as a current or previous owner or operator of real
property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a Property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws often impose liability regardless of
whether the property owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the abatement or removal of asbestos
containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a Property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Those laws and
regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our Properties contain, or at one time
contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs of
investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition but is not estimable. The presence
of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, may also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a Property or to borrow using a Property as collateral.

Our efforts to identify environmental liabilities may not be successful.

Although we believe that our Portfolio is in substantial compliance with Federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regarding
hazardous or toxic substances, this belief is based on limited testing. Nearly all of our Properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits. These environmental audits have not
revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, we cannot assure you that:

•

existing
environmental studies with respect to the Portfolio reveal all potential environmental liabilities;

•

any
previous owner, occupant or tenant of a Property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us;

•

the
current environmental condition of the Portfolio will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of nearby properties, or by other unrelated third
parties; or

•

future
uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation thereof) will not result in
environmental liabilities.

Retail Operations Risks

We are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment.

Our concentration in the retail real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the levels of
consumer spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence and terrorist activities.
Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.

We may not be able to lease newly developed Properties and renew leases and relet space at existing Properties.

We may not be able to lease new Properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections. Also, when leases for our
existing Properties expire, the premises may not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than the current lease terms. To
the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures could be adversely affected.

Some of our Properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of or a store closure by one or more of these tenants.

Regional malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of our Properties could be adversely
affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations. Department store and larger store, also
referred to as "big box", consolidations typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate or


geographically
overlapping store locations. We do not control the disposition of those department stores or larger stores that we do not own. We also may not control the vacant space that is not
re-leased in those stores we do own. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us
as the lessor and could decrease rents or expense recovery charges. Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If
the sales of stores operating in our Properties were to decline significantly due to closing of anchors, economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or
expense recovery charges. In the event of default by a tenant or anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of
our agreements with those parties.

We face potential adverse effects from tenants' bankruptcies.

Bankruptcy filings by retailers occur frequently in the course of our operations. We are continually re-leasing vacant spaces resulting from tenant
terminations. The bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected Properties. Future tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect
our Properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy.

Risks Relating to Joint Venture Properties

We have limited control with respect to some of our Properties that are partially owned or managed by third parties, which may adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance the Properties.

As of December 31, 2006, we owned interests in 146 income-producing properties with other parties. Of those, 19 Properties are included in our consolidated
financial statements. We account for the other 127 properties under the equity method of accounting, which we refer to as joint venture properties. We serve as general partner or property manager for
58 of these 127 properties; however, certain major decisions, such as selling or refinancing these properties, require the consent of the other owners. Of these properties we do not serve as general
partner or property manager, 59 are in our international joint ventures. The other owners also have other participating rights that we consider substantive for purposes of determining control over the
properties' assets. The remaining joint venture properties are managed by third parties. These limitations may adversely affect our ability to sell, refinance, or otherwise operate these properties.

We guarantee debt or otherwise provide support for a number of joint venture Properties.

Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture Property. As of December 31, 2006, we
have loan guarantees and other guarantee obligations to support $43.6 million and $19.0 million, respectively, of our total $3.5 billion share of joint venture mortgage and other
indebtedness. A default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us to liability under a guaranty or letter of credit.

Other Factors Affecting Our Business

Our Common Area Maintenance (CAM) contributions may not allow us to recover the majority of our operating expenses from tenants.

CAM costs typically include allocable energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, janitorial services, administrative, property
and liability insurance costs, and security costs. We historically have used leases with variable CAM provisions that adjust to reflect inflationary increases. However, we are making a concerted
effort to shift from variable to fixed CAM contributions for our cost recoveries which will fix our tenants' CAM contributions to us. As a result, our CAM contributions may not allow us to recover all
operating costs and, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in our efforts to recover a substantial portion of these costs in the future.

We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.

Our Properties compete with other retail properties for tenants on the basis of the rent charged and location. The principal competition may come from existing or
future developments in the same market areas and from discount shopping centers, outlet malls, catalogues, discount shopping clubs and electronic commerce. The presence of competitive properties also
affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. Renovations and expansions at competing malls could also negatively affect our Properties.


We
also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for attractive tenants and
qualified management.

We expect to continue to pursue international expansion opportunities that may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations.

We hold interests in joint venture properties that are under operation in Europe, Japan and Mexico. We have also established arrangements to develop joint venture
properties in China and South Korea, and expect to pursue additional expansion opportunities outside the United States. International development and ownership activities carry risks that are
different from those we face with our domestic Properties and operations. These risks include:

•

adverse
effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;

•

changes
in foreign political environments, regionally, nationally, and locally;

•

challenges
of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and litigation;

•

differing
lending practices;

•

differences
in cultures;

•

changes
in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations;

•

difficulties
in managing international operations; and

•

obstacles
to the repatriation of earnings and cash.

Although
our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented less than 7% of the GLA of all of our properties at
December 31, 2006), to the extent that we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition.

Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.

We maintain commercial general liability "all risk" property coverage including fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on our Properties. One of
our subsidiaries indemnifies our general liability carrier for a specific layer of losses. A similar policy written through our subsidiary also provides a portion of our initial coverage for property
insurance and certain windstorm risks at the Properties located in Florida. Even insured losses could result in a serious disruption to our business and delay our receipt of revenue.

There
are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could
lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a Property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the Property. If this happens, we may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt
or other financial obligations related to the Property.

The
events of September 11, 2001 significantly affected our insurance programs. Although insurance rates remain high, since the President signed into law the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act (TRIA) in November of 2002, the price of terrorism insurance has steadily decreased, while the available capacity has been substantially increased. We have purchased terrorism insurance
covering all Properties. The program provides limits up to $1 billion per occurrence for Certified (Foreign) acts of terrorism and $500 million per occurrence for
Non-Certified (Domestic) acts of terrorism. The coverage is written on an "all risk" policy form. In December of 2005, the President signed into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension
Act (TRIEA) of 2005, thereby extending the federal terrorism insurance backstop through 2007. TRIEA narrows terms and conditions afforded by TRIA for 2006 and 2007 by: 1) excluding lines of
coverage for commercial automobile, surety, burglary and theft, farm owners' multi-peril and professional liability; 2) raising the certifiable event trigger mechanism from $5 million to
$50 million during 2006 and to $100 million during 2007; and 3) increasing the deductibles and co-pays assigned to insurance companies. Upon the expiration of TRIEA in
2007, we could pay
higher premiums for comparable terrorism coverage and/or obtain or be otherwise able to secure less coverage than we have currently.

Terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties.

Our higher profile Properties or markets they operate in could be potential targets for terrorism attacks, due to the large quantities of people at the Property
or in the surrounding areas. Threatened or actual terrorist attacks in these high profile markets could directly or indirectly impact our Properties by resulting in lower property values, a decline in
revenue, or a decline in customer traffic and, in turn, a decline in our tenants' sales.


Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Although inflation has not materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a more pronounced negative impact on our mortgage
and debt interest and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. Also, inflation may adversely affect tenant leases with stated rent increases,
which could be lower than the increase in inflation at any given time. Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our overage
rents, where applicable.

Risks Relating to Federal Income Taxes

Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have adverse tax consequences to us and our stockholders.

We cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex
Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. If we fail to qualify as a REIT and any available relief provisions do not apply:

•

we
will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;

•

we
will be subject to corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; and

•

unless
entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during
which qualification was lost.

As
a result, net income and funds available for distribution to our stockholders will be reduced for those years in which we fail to qualify as a REIT. Also, we would no longer be
required to distribute money to our stockholders. Although we currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations might cause us to
revoke our REIT election.

On
October 22, 2004, President Bush signed the American Jobs Creation Act which included several provisions of the REIT Improvement Act, which added some flexibility to the REIT
rules. This Act provided for monetary penalties in lieu of REIT disqualification. This better matches the severity of the penalty to the REIT's error and therefore reduces the possibility of
disqualification.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties

United States Properties

Our Properties primarily consist of regional malls, Premium Outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other properties. Our Properties contain an aggregate
of approximately 200 million square feet of GLA, of which we own approximately 120.2 million square feet ("Owned GLA"). Total estimated retail sales at the Properties in 2006 were
approximately $53 billion.

Regional
malls typically contain at least one traditional department store anchor or a combination of anchors and big box retailers with a wide variety of smaller stores ("Mall" stores)
connecting the anchors. Additional stores ("Freestanding" stores) are usually located along the perimeter of the parking area. Our 171 regional malls are generally enclosed centers and range in size
from approximately 400,000 to 2.0 million square feet of GLA. Our regional malls contain in the aggregate more than 17,800 occupied stores, including approximately 675 anchors, which are mostly
national retailers.

Premium
Outlet centers generally contain a wide variety of retailers located in open-air manufacturers' outlet centers. Our 36 Premium Outlet centers range in size from
approximately 200,000 to 600,000 square feet of GLA. The Premium Outlet centers are generally located near metropolitan areas including New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, Boston, Washington, D.C.,
and San Francisco; or within 20 miles of major tourist destinations including Palm Springs, Napa Valley, Orlando, Las Vegas, and Honolulu.


Community/lifestyle
centers are generally unenclosed and smaller than our regional malls. Our 69 community/lifestyle centers generally range in size from approximately 100,000 to
600,000 square feet of GLA. Community/lifestyle centers are designed to serve a larger trade area and typically contain anchor stores and other tenants that are usually national retailers among the
leaders in their markets. These tenants generally occupy a significant portion of the GLA of the center. We also own traditional community shopping centers that focus primarily on value-oriented and
convenience goods and services. These centers are usually anchored by a supermarket, discount retailer, or drugstore and are designed to service a neighborhood area. Finally, we own
open-air centers adjacent to our regional malls designed to take advantage of the drawing power of the mall.

We
also have interests in 10 other shopping centers or outlet centers. These other Properties range in size from approximately 85,000 to 300,000 square feet of GLA. The combined other
Properties represent less than 1% of our total operating income before depreciation.

The
following table provides representative data for our Properties as of December 31, 2006:

Regional

Malls

Premium

Outlet

Centers

Community/

Lifestyle

Centers

Other Properties

% of total Property annualized base rent

80.7

%

12.8

%

6.1

%

0.4

%

% of total Property GLA

82.8

%

6.9

%

9.5

%

0.8

%

% of Owned Property GLA

76.0

%

11.6

%

11.1

%

1.3

%

As of December 31, 2006, approximately 93.2% of the Mall and Freestanding Owned GLA in regional malls and the retail space of the other Properties was
leased, approximately 99.4% of Owned GLA in the Premium Outlet centers was leased and approximately 93.2% of Owned GLA in the community/lifestyle centers was leased.

We
own 100% of 199 of our 286 Properties, effectively control 19 Properties in which we have a joint venture interest, and hold the remaining 68 Properties through unconsolidated joint
venture interests. We are the managing or co-managing general partner or member of 276 of our Properties. Substantially all of our joint venture Properties are subject to rights of first
refusal, buy-sell provisions, or other sale rights for all partners which are customary in real estate partnership agreements and the industry. Our partners in our joint ventures may
initiate these provisions at any time, which will result in either the use of available cash or borrowings to acquire their partnership interest or the disposal of our partnership interest.

The
following property table summarizes certain data on our regional malls, Premium Outlet centers, and community/lifestyle centers located in the United States, including Puerto Rico,
as of December 31, 2006.


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

REGIONAL MALLS

1.

Alton Square

IL

Alton (St. Louis)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1993

64.3

%

426,315

211,655

637,970

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Old Navy

2.

Anderson Mall

SC

Anderson (Greenville)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1972

95.8

%

404,394

229,988

634,382

Belk Ladies Fashion Store, Belk Men's & Home Store, JCPenney, Sears

3.

Apple Blossom Mall

VA

Winchester

Fee

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

95.9

%

229,011

213,619

442,630

Belk, JCPenney, Sears, Dick's Sporting Goods (6)

4.

Arsenal Mall

MA

Watertown (Boston)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1999

95.8

%

191,395

310,130

(18)

501,525

Marshalls, The Home Depot, Linens 'n Things, Filene's Basement, Old Navy

5.

Atrium Mall

MA

Chestnut Hill (Boston)

Fee

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

99.4

%

—

205,751

205,751

Borders Books & Music

6.

Auburn Mall

MA

Auburn (Boston)

Fee

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

93.3

%

417,620

174,350

591,970

Macy's, Macy's Home Store, Sears

7.

Aventura Mall (1)

FL

Miami Beach

Fee

33.3

% (4)

Built 1983

96.1

%

1,257,638

662,622

1,920,260

Bloomingdale's, Macy's, Macy's Mens & Home Furniture, JCPenney, Sears, Nordstrom (6)

8.

Avenues, The

FL

Jacksonville

Fee

25.0

% (4) (2)

Built 1990

99.1

%

754,956

362,409

1,117,365

Belk, Dillard's, JCPenney, Parisian (19), Sears

9.

Bangor Mall

ME

Bangor

Fee

66.4

% (15)

Acquired 2003

92.2

%

416,582

237,494

654,076

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Dick's Sporting Goods

10.

Barton Creek Square

TX

Austin

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1981

97.5

%

922,266

508,229

1,430,495

Nordstrom, Macy's, Dillard's Women's & Home, Dillard's Men's & Children's, JCPenney, Sears

11.

Battlefield Mall

MO

Springfield

Fee and Ground Lease (2056)

100.0

%

Built 1970

92.1

%

770,111

433,482

1,203,593

Macy's, Dillard's Women's, Dillard's Men's, Children's & Home, JCPenney, Sears

12.

Bay Park Square

WI

Green Bay

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1980

98.1

%

447,508

267,756

715,264

Younkers, Elder-Beerman, Kohl's, ShopKo

13.

Bowie Town Center

MD

Bowie (Washington, D.C.)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 2001

99.3

%

355,557

328,588

684,145

Macy's, Sears, Barnes & Noble, Bed Bath & Beyond

14.

Boynton Beach Mall

FL

Boynton Beach (W. Palm Beach)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1985

87.7

%

714,210

300,364

1,014,574

Macy's, Dillard's Men's & Home, Dillard's Women, JCPenney, Sears

15.

Brea Mall

CA

Brea (Orange County)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

99.6

%

874,802

443,789

1,318,591

Nordstrom, Macy's, JCPenney, Sears

16.

Broadway Square

TX

Tyler

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1994

99.8

%

427,730

200,966

628,696

Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears

17.

Brunswick Square

NJ

East Brunswick (New York)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1973

98.6

%

467,626

299,792

767,418

Macy's, JCPenney, Barnes & Noble

18.

Burlington Mall

MA

Burlington (Boston)

Ground Lease (2048)

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

96.8

%

642,411

432,201

1,074,612

Macy's, Lord & Taylor, Sears, Nordstrom (20)

19.

Cape Cod Mall

MA

Hyannis (Barnstable — Yarmouth)

Ground Leases (2009-2073) (7)

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

98.9

%

420,199

303,618

723,817

Macy's, Macy's, Sears, Best Buy, Marshalls, Barnes & Noble

20.

Castleton Square

IN

Indianapolis

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1972

97.3

%

908,481

352,398

1,260,879

Macy's, Von Maur, JCPenney, Sears, Dick's Sporting Goods, Borders Books & Music (6)

21.

Century III Mall

PA

West Mifflin (Pittsburgh)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1979

85.8

%

831,439

459,191

(18)

1,290,630

Macy's, Macy's Furniture Galleries, JCPenney, Sears, Dick's Sporting Goods, Steve & Barry's University Sportswear

22.

Charlottesville Fashion Square

VA

Charlottesville

Ground Lease (2076)

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

100.0

%

381,153

190,533

571,686

Belk Women's & Children's, Belk Men's & Home, JCPenney, Sears

23.

Chautauqua Mall

NY

Lakewood (Jamestown)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1971

84.4

%

213,320

218,858

432,178

Sears, JCPenney, Bon Ton, Office Max


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

24.

Chesapeake Square

VA

Chesapeake (Norfolk — VA Beach)

Fee and Ground Lease (2062)

75.0

% (12)

Built 1989

93.0

%

534,760

271,842

806,602

Macy's, Dillard's Women's, Dillard's Men's, Children's & Home, JCPenney, Sears, Target

25.

Cielo Vista Mall

TX

El Paso

Fee and Ground Lease (2012) (7)

100.0

%

Built 1974

96.7

%

793,716

443,825

1,237,541

Macy's, Dillard's Women's & Furniture, Dillard's Men's, Children's & Home, JCPenney, Sears

26.

Circle Centre

IN

Indianapolis

Property Lease (2098)

14.7

% (4) (2)

Built 1995

87.0

%

350,000

435,963

(18)

785,963

Nordstrom, Carson Pirie Scott

27.

Coconut Point

FL

Estero

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Built 2006

94.6

%

424,636

594,758

1,019,394

Dillard's, Barnes & Noble, Bed Bath & Beyond, Best Buy, DSW, Office Max, Old Navy, PetsMart, Pier 1 Imports, Ross Dress for Less, Cost Plus World Market, T.J. Maxx

28.

Coddingtown Mall

CA

Santa Rosa

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 2005

77.2

%

547,090

309,812

856,902

Macy's, JCPenney, Gottschalk's, (8)

29.

College Mall

IN

Bloomington

Fee and Ground Lease (2048) (7)

100.0

%

Built 1965

88.7

%

356,887

286,028

642,915

Macy's, Sears, Target, Dick's Sporting Goods, Bed Bath & Beyond, Pier One (6)

30.

Columbia Center

WA

Kennewick

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1987

92.0

%

408,052

346,895

754,947

Macy's, Macy's Mens & Children, JCPenney, Sears, Toys 'R Us, Barnes & Noble

31.

Copley Place

MA

Boston

Fee

98.1

%

Acquired 2002

98.0

%

150,847

1,080,822

(18)

1,231,669

Nieman Marcus, Barneys New York

32.

Coral Square

FL

Coral Springs (Miami — Ft. Lauderdale)

Fee

97.2

%

Built 1984

96.9

%

648,144

296,802

944,946

Macy's Mens, Children & Home, Macy's Women, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears

33.

Cordova Mall

FL

Pensacola

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

90.4

%

395,875

463,085

858,960

Dillard's Men's, Dillard's Women's, Parisian (19), Best Buy, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Cost Plus World Market, Ross Dress for Less

34.

Cottonwood Mall

NM

Albuquerque

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1996

96.9

%

631,556

409,278

1,040,834

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, Mervyn's

35.

Crossroads Mall

NE

Omaha

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1994

63.0

%

522,119

231,298

753,417

Dillard's, Sears, Target, Barnes & Noble, Old Navy

36.

Crystal Mall

CT

Waterford (New London — Norwich)

Fee

74.6

% (4)

Acquired 1998

92.1

%

442,311

351,861

794,172

Macy's, JC Penney, Sears, Old Navy, (17)

37.

Crystal River Mall

FL

Crystal River

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1990

76.5

%

302,495

121,844

424,339

JCPenney, Sears, Belk, Kmart

38.

Dadeland Mall

FL

Miami

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1997

96.9

%

1,132,072

335,524

1,467,596

Saks Fifth Avenue, Nordstrom, Macy's, Macy's Children & Home, JCPenney

39.

DeSoto Square

FL

Bradenton (Sarasota — Bradenton)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1973

96.9

%

435,467

244,499

679,966

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears

40.

Eastland Mall

IN

Evansville

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

94.8

%

489,144

375,307

864,451

Macy's, JCPenney, Bed Bath & Beyond, Marshalls, Dillard's (6)

41.

Edison Mall

FL

Fort Myers

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

93.0

%

742,667

310,695

1,053,362

Dillard's, Macy's Mens, Children & Home, Macy's Women, JCPenney, Sears

42.

Emerald Square

MA

North Attleboro (Providence — Fall River)

Fee

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

94.2

%

647,372

375,125

1,022,497

Macy's, Macy's Mens & Home Store, JCPenney, Sears


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

43.

Empire Mall (1)

SD

Sioux Falls

Fee and Ground Lease (2033) (7)

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

92.4

%

497,341

548,004

1,045,345

Macy's, Younkers, JCPenney, Sears, Gordmans, Old Navy

44.

Fashion Centre at Pentagon City, The

VA

Arlington (Washington, DC)

Fee

42.5

% (4)

Built 1989

98.0

%

472,729

517,384

(18)

990,113

Nordstrom, Macy's

45.

Fashion Mall at Keystone

IN

Indianapolis

Ground Lease (2067)

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

99.0

%

249,721

433,601

(18)

683,322

Saks Fifth Avenue, Parisian (16), Crate & Barrel, Nordstrom (20)

46.

Fashion Valley Mall

CA

San Diego

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 2001

100.0

%

1,053,305

655,681

1,708,986

Saks Fifth Avenue, Neiman-Marcus, Bloomingdale's, Nordstrom, Macy's, JCPenney

47.

Firewheel Town Center

TX

Garland

Fee

100.0

%

Built 2005

95.7

%

298,857

618,845

(18)

917,702

Dillard's, Macy's, Barnes & Noble, Circuit City, Linens 'n Things, Old Navy, Pier One, DSW, Cost Plus World Market

48.

Florida Mall, The

FL

Orlando

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Built 1986

99.8

%

1,232,416

615,288

1,847,704

Saks Fifth Avenue, Nordstrom, Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, (8)

49.

Forest Mall

WI

Fond Du Lac

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1973

93.4

%

327,260

174,031

501,291

JCPenney, Kohl's, Younkers, Sears

50.

Forum Shops at Caesars, The

NV

Las Vegas

Ground Lease (2050)

100.0

%

Built 1992

99.4

%

—

635,939

635,939

51.

Galleria, The

TX

Houston

Fee and Ground Lease (2029) (7)

31.5

% (4)

Acquired 2002

93.9

%

1,164,982

1,185,561

2,350,543

Saks Fifth Avenue, Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Macy's (2 locations), Borders Books & Music, University Club

52.

Granite Run Mall

PA

Media (Philadelphia)

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

90.9

%

500,809

535,456

1,036,265

JCPenney, Sears, Boscov's

53.

Great Lakes Mall

OH

Mentor (Cleveland)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1961

90.0

%

879,300

378,525

1,257,825

Dillard's Men's, Dillard's Women's, Macy's, JCPenney, Sears

54.

Greendale Mall

MA

Worcester (Boston)

Fee and Ground Lease (2009) (7)

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

92.6

%

132,634

298,732

(18)

431,366

Marshalls, T.J. Maxx 'N More, Best Buy, DSW

55.

Greenwood Park Mall

IN

Greenwood (Indianapolis)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1979

99.0

%

754,928

408,820

1,163,748

Macy's, Von Maur, JCPenney, Sears, Dick's Sporting Goods, Barnes & Noble (6)

56.

Gulf View Square

FL

Port Richey (Tampa — St. Pete)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1980

98.4

%

461,852

292,028

753,880

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, Best Buy, Linens 'n Things

57.

Gwinnett Place

GA

Duluth (Atlanta)

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

89.5

%

843,609

434,254

1,277,863

Macy's, Parisian (19), JCPenney, Sears, (17)

58.

Haywood Mall

SC

Greenville

Fee and Ground Lease (2017) (7)

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

98.3

%

902,400

328,159

1,230,559

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, Belk

59.

Highland Mall (1)

TX

Austin

Fee and Ground Lease (2070)

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

86.2

%

732,000

359,126

1,091,126

Dillard's Women's & Home, Dillard's Men's & Children's, Macy's

60.

Independence Center

MO

Independence (Kansas City)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1994

98.6

%

499,284

526,154

1,025,438

Dillard's, Macy's, Sears

61.

Indian River Mall

FL

Vero Beach

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Built 1996

94.9

%

445,552

302,881

748,433

Dillard's, Macy's, JCPenney, Sears

62.

Ingram Park Mall

TX

San Antonio

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1979

93.9

%

750,888

375,484

1,126,372

Dillard's, Dillard's Home Store, Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Bealls

63.

Irving Mall

TX

Irving (Dallas — Ft. Worth)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1971

98.1

%

637,415

406,712

1,044,127

Macy's, Dillard's, Sears, Circuit City, Burlington Coat Factory, (8)

64.

Jefferson Valley Mall

NY

Yorktown Heights (New York)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1983

96.3

%

310,095

278,290

588,385

Macy's, Sears


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

65.

King of Prussia Mall

PA

King of Prussia (Philadelphia)

Fee

12.4

% (4) (15)

Acquired 2003

96.4

%

1,545,812

1,065,157

(18)

2,610,969

Neiman Marcus, Bloomingdale's, Nordstrom, Lord & Taylor, Macy's (Plaza), Macy's (Court), JCPenney, Sears

66.

Knoxville Center

TN

Knoxville

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1984

94.0

%

597,028

384,086

981,114

Dillard's, JCPenney, Belk, Sears, The Rush Fitness Center

67.

La Plaza Mall

TX

McAllen

Fee and Ground Lease (2040) (7)

100.0

%

Built 1976

99.9

%

776,397

427,124

1,203,521

Macy's, Macy's Home Store, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, Bealls, Joe Brand

68.

Lafayette Square

IN

Indianapolis

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1968

81.4

%

937,223

269,504

1,206,727

Macy's, Sears, Burlington Coat Factory, Steve & Barry's University Sportswear, (8)

69.

Laguna Hills Mall

CA

Laguna Hills (Orange County)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

88.6

%

536,500

329,260

865,760

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears

70.

Lake Square Mall

FL

Leesburg (Orlando)

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

85.3

%

296,037

264,953

560,990

JCPenney, Sears, Belk, Target, Best Buy (6)

71.

Lakeline Mall

TX

Austin

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1995

97.3

%

745,179

355,783

1,100,962

Dillard's, Macy's, JCPenney, Sears

72.

Lehigh Valley Mall

PA

Whitehall (Allentown — Bethlehem)

Fee

37.6

% (4) (15)

Acquired 2003

98.7

%

564,353

482,855

(18)

1,047,208

Macy's, Boscov's, JCPenney, Linens 'n Things, Barnes & Noble (6)

73.

Lenox Square

GA

Atlanta

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

93.3

%

821,356

628,752

1,450,108

Neiman Marcus, Bloomingdale's, Macy's

74.

Liberty Tree Mall

MA

Danvers (Boston)

Fee

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

97.7

%

498,000

359,251

857,251

Marshalls, The Sports Authority, Target, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Kohl's, Super Stop & Shop, Best Buy, Staples, AC Moore, Old Navy, Pier 1 Imports, K&G Fashion Superstore

75.

Lima Mall

OH

Lima

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1965

95.2

%

541,861

203,770

745,631

Macy's, JCPenney, Elder-Beerman, Sears

76.

Lincolnwood Town Center

IL

Lincolnwood (Chicago)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1990

94.0

%

220,830

201,110

421,940

Kohl's, Carson Pirie Scott

77.

Lindale Mall (1)

IA

Cedar Rapids

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

84.3

%

305,563

388,024

693,587

Von Maur, Sears, Younkers

78.

Livingston Mall

NJ

Livingston (New York)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

96.3

%

616,128

363,871

979,999

Macy's, Lord & Taylor, Sears, Steve & Barry's

79.

Longview Mall

TX

Longview

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1978

87.1

%

402,843

209,472

612,315

Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, Bealls, (17)

80.

Mall at Chestnut Hill

MA

Newton (Boston)

Lease (2039) (9)

47.2

% (4)

Acquired 2002

97.0

%

297,253

180,109

477,362

Bloomingdale's, Bloomingdale's Home Furnishing and Men's Store

81.

Mall at Rockingham Park, The

NH

Salem (Boston)

Fee

24.6

% (4)

Acquired 1999

97.5

%

638,111

381,676

1,019,787

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, (8)

82.

Mall at The Source, The

NY

Westbury (New York)

Fee

25.5

% (4) (2)

Built 1997

96.0

%

210,798

515,250

726,048

Fortunoff, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Nordstrom Rack, Circuit City, David's Bridal, Steve & Barry's, Golf Galaxy

83.

Mall of Georgia

GA

Buford (Atlanta)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1999

91.8

%

1,069,590

716,341

1,785,931

Nordstrom, Dillard's, Macy's, JCPenney, Belk, Dick's Sporting Goods, Barnes & Noble, Haverty's Furniture, Bed Bath & Beyond

84.

Mall of New Hampshire

NH

Manchester (Boston)

Fee

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

97.9

%

444,889

362,807

807,696

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Best Buy, Old Navy, A.C. Moore

85.

Maplewood Mall

MN

Minneapolis

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2002

92.0

%

588,822

341,972

930,794

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Kohl's, Barnes & Noble

86.

Markland Mall

IN

Kokomo

Ground Lease (2041)

100.0

%

Built 1968

94.8

%

273,094

141,692

414,786

Sears, Target, (8)


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

87.

McCain Mall

AR

N. Little Rock

Fee and Ground Lease (2032) (10)

100.0

%

Built 1973

93.5

%

554,156

221,474

775,630

Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, M.M. Cohn

88.

Melbourne Square

FL

Melbourne

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1982

90.5

%

416,167

294,373

710,540

Macy's, Dillard's Men's, Children's & Home, Dillard's Women's, JCPenney, Dick's Sporting Goods, Circuit City

89.

Menlo Park Mall

NJ

Edison (New York)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

95.4

%

527,591

756,358

(18)

1,283,949

Nordstrom, Macy's, Barnes & Noble, Steve & Barry's

90.

Mesa Mall (1)

CO

Grand Junction

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

89.2

%

441,208

443,015

884,223

Sears, Herberger's, JCPenney, Target, Mervyn's

91.

Miami International Mall

FL

South Miami

Fee

47.8

% (4)

Built 1982

97.5

%

778,784

294,825

1,073,609

Macy's Mens & Home, Macy's Women & Children, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears

92.

Midland Park Mall

TX

Midland

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1980

92.3

%

339,113

279,430

618,543

Dillard's, Dillard's Mens & Juniors, JCPenney, Sears, Bealls, Ross Dress for Less

93.

Miller Hill Mall

MN

Duluth

Ground Lease (2008)

100.0

%

Built 1973

97.4

%

429,508

379,884

809,392

JCPenney, Sears, Younkers, Barnes & Noble, Old Navy, DSW

94.

Montgomery Mall

PA

Montgomeryville (Philadelphia)

Fee

53.5

% (15)

Acquired 2003

90.9

%

684,855

434,306

1,119,161

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Boscov's

95.

Muncie Mall

IN

Muncie

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1970

90.5

%

435,756

204,894

640,650

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Elder Beerman

96.

Nanuet Mall

NY

Nanuet (New York)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

74.7

%

583,711

331,764

915,475

Macy's, Boscov's, Sears

97.

North East Mall

TX

Hurst (Dallas — Ft. Worth)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1971

95.2

%

1,194,589

452,659

1,647,248

Nordstrom, Dillard's, Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Dick's Sporting Goods (6)

98.

Northfield Square Mall

IL

Bourbonnais (Chicago)

Fee

31.6

% (12)

Built 1990

79.0

%

310,994

246,672

557,666

Carson Pirie Scott Women's, Carson Pirie Scott Men's, Children's & Home, JCPenney, Sears

99.

Northgate Mall

WA

Seattle

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1987

98.2

%

688,391

291,003

979,394

Nordstrom, Macy's, JCPenney, Toys 'R Us, Barnes & Noble (6), Bed Bath & Beyond (6), DSW (6)

100.

Northlake Mall

GA

Atlanta

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

96.4

%

665,745

296,626

962,371

Macy's, Parisian (19), JCPenney, Sears

101.

NorthPark Mall

IA

Davenport

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

84.7

%

650,456

423,484

1,073,940

Dillard's, Von Maur, Younkers, JCPenney, Sears

102.

Northshore Mall

MA

Peabody (Boston)

Fee

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

91.3

%

677,433

688,876

1,366,309

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Filene's Basement, Nordstrom (20), Macy's Home (6)

103.

Northwoods Mall

IL

Peoria

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1983

93.8

%

472,969

221,068

694,037

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears

104.

Oak Court Mall

TN

Memphis

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

91.3

%

532,817

314,264

(18)

847,081

Dillard's, Dillard's Mens, Macy's

105.

Ocean County Mall

NJ

Toms River (New York)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

93.9

%

616,443

274,856

891,299

Macy's, Boscov's, JCPenney, Sears

106.

Orange Park Mall

FL

Orange Park (Jacksonville)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1994

94.8

%

528,551

381,658

910,209

Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, Belk, Dick's Sporting Goods (6)

107.

Orland Square

IL

Orland Park (Chicago)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

98.2

%

773,295

437,045

1,210,340

Macy's, Carson Pirie Scott, JCPenney, Sears

108.

Oxford Valley Mall

PA

Langhorne (Philadelphia)

Fee

63.2

% (15)

Acquired 2003

94.0

%

762,558

558,957

(18)

1,321,515

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Boscov's

109.

Paddock Mall

FL

Ocala

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1980

93.7

%

387,378

167,723

555,101

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Belk

110.

Palm Beach Mall

FL

West Palm Beach

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1967

92.2

%

749,288

335,086

1,084,374

Dillard's, Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Borders Books & Music, DSW

111.

Penn Square Mall

OK

Oklahoma City

Ground Lease (2060)

94.5

%

Acquired 2002

99.4

%

588,137

462,542

1,050,679

Macy's, Dillard's Women's, Dillard's Men's, Children's & Home, JCPenney

112.

Pheasant Lane Mall

NH

Nashua (Boston)

(14)

(14)

Acquired 2002

96.7

%

675,759

313,615

989,374

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Target


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

113.

Phipps Plaza

GA

Atlanta

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

98.9

%

472,385

347,202

819,587

Saks Fifth Avenue, Nordstrom, Parisian (19)

114.

Plaza Carolina

PR

Carolina (San Juan)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

97.1

%

504,796

609,476

(18)

1,114,272

JCPenney, Sears

115.

Port Charlotte Town Center

FL

Port Charlotte (Punta Gorda)

Fee

80.0

% (12)

Built 1989

87.6

%

458,251

323,692

781,943

Dillard's, Macy's, JCPenney, Bealls, Sears, DSW

116.

Prien Lake Mall

LA

Lake Charles

Fee and Ground Lease (2025) (7)

100.0

%

Built 1972

90.2

%

644,124

177,626

821,750

Dillard's, Macy's, JCPenney, Sears

117.

Quaker Bridge Mall

NJ

Lawrenceville

Fee

38.0

% (4) (15)

Acquired 2003

97.5

%

686,760

412,636

1,099,396

Macy's, Lord & Taylor, JCPenney, Sears, Old Navy

118.

Raleigh Springs Mall

TN

Memphis

Fee and Ground Lease (2018) (7)

100.0

%

Built 1971

66.0

%

691,230

226,100

917,330

Sears, (8), (17)

119.

Richardson Square Mall

TX

Richardson (Dallas — Ft. Worth)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1977

28.6

%

460,055

284,240

744,295

Dillard's, Sears, Super Target, Ross Dress for Less

120.

Richmond Town Square

OH

Richmond Heights (Cleveland)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1966

98.9

%

685,251

331,663

1,016,914

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Barnes & Noble, Steve & Barry's

121.

River Oaks Center

IL

Calumet City (Chicago)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

88.5

%

834,588

533,914

(18)

1,368,502

Macy's, Carson Pirie Scott, JCPenney, Sears

122.

Rockaway Townsquare

NJ

Rockaway (New York)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

97.5

%

786,626

462,038

1,248,664

Macy's, Lord & Taylor, JCPenney, Sears

123.

Rolling Oaks Mall

TX

San Antonio

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1988

83.5

%

596,308

288,109

884,417

Dillard's, Macy's, JC Penney, Sears

124.

Roosevelt Field

NY

Garden City (New York)

Fee and Ground Lease (2090) (7)

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

94.9

%

1,430,425

778,656

(18)

2,209,081

Bloomingdale's, Bloomingdale's Furniture Gallery, Nordstrom, Macy's, JCPenney, Dick's Sporting Goods

125.

Ross Park Mall

PA

Pittsburgh

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1986

98.5

%

622,215

406,902

1,029,117

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Nordstrom (20)

126.

Rushmore Mall (1)

SD

Rapid City

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

88.6

%

470,660

362,653

833,313

JCPenney, Herberger's, Sears, Hobby Lobby, Target

127.

Santa Rosa Plaza

CA

Santa Rosa

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

96.9

%

428,258

270,565

698,823

Macy's, Mervyn's, Sears

128.

Seminole Towne Center

FL

Sanford (Orlando)

Fee

45.0

% (4) (2)

Built 1995

94.1

%

768,798

367,781

1,136,579

Macy's, Dillard's, Belk, JCPenney, Sears

129.

Shops at Mission Viejo, The

CA

Mission Viejo (Orange County)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1979

100.0

%

677,215

472,585

1,149,800

Saks Fifth Avenue, Nordstrom, Macy's (2 locations)

130.

Shops at Sunset Place, The

FL

Miami

Fee

37.5

% (4) (2)

Built 1999

96.0

%

—

510,056

510,056

NikeTown, Barnes & Noble, GameWorks, Virgin Megastore, Z Gallerie, LA Fitness

131.

Smith Haven Mall

NY

Lake Grove (New York)

Fee

25.0

% (4)

Acquired 1995

95.9

%

666,283

416,035

1,082,318

Macy's, Macy's Furniture, JCPenney, Sears, Dick's Sporting Goods (6), Barnes & Noble (6)

132.

Solomon Pond Mall

MA

Marlborough (Boston)

Fee

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

93.0

%

538,843

371,326

910,169

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Linens 'n Things

133.

South Hills Village

PA

Pittsburgh

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

97.6

%

655,987

485,604

1,141,591

Macy's, Sears, Boscov's, Barnes & Noble

134.

South Shore Plaza

MA

Braintree (Boston)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

96.3

%

547,287

613,809

1,161,096

Macy's, Lord & Taylor, Sears, Nordstrom (20)

135.

Southern Hills Mall (1)

IA

Sioux City

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

87.2

%

372,937

431,916

804,853

Younkers, JCPenney, Sears, Sheel's Sporting Goods, Barnes & Noble

136.

Southern Park Mall

OH

Boardman (Youngstown)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1970

94.9

%

811,858

383,660

1,195,518

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears

137.

SouthPark Mall

IL

Moline (Davenport — Moline)

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

87.7

%

578,056

447,804

1,025,860

Dillard's, Von Maur, Younkers, JCPenney, Sears, Old Navy

138.

SouthPark

NC

Charlotte

Fee & Ground Lease (2040) (11)

100.0

%

Acquired 2002

99.8

%

1,044,742

530,839

1,575,581

Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Macy's, Dillard's, Belk, Dick's Sporting Goods, Crate & Barrel


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

139.

SouthRidge Mall (1)

IA

Des Moines

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

76.6

%

388,752

523,443

912,195

JCPenney, Younkers, Sears, Target, (8)

140.

Springfield Mall (1)

PA

Springfield (Philadelphia)

Fee

38.0

% (4) (15)

Acquired 2005

87.5

%

367,176

221,489

588,665

Macy's, (8)

141.

Square One Mall

MA

Saugus (Boston)

Fee

49.1

% (4)

Acquired 1999

94.4

%

608,601

324,669

933,270

Macy's, Sears, Best Buy, T.J. Maxx N More, Best Buy, Old Navy, Dick's Sporting Goods (6)

142.

St. Charles Towne Center

MD

Waldorf (Washington, D.C.)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1990

96.7

%

631,602

350,574

982,176

Macy's, Macy's Home Store, JCPenney, Sears, Kohl's, Dick Sporting Goods

143.

St. Johns Town Center

FL

Jacksonville

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Built 2005

100.0

%

653,291

379,212

1,032,503

Dillard's, Target, Ashley Furniture Home Store, Barnes & Noble, Dick's Clothing & Sporting Goods, Ross Dress for Less, Staples, DSW, JoAnn Fabrics, PetsMart, Old Navy

144.

Stanford Shopping Center

CA

Palo Alto (San Francisco)

Ground Lease (2054)

100.0

%

Acquried 2003

97.7

%

849,153

528,750

(18)

1,377,903

Neiman Marcus, Bloomingdale's, Nordstrom, Macy's, Macy's Mens Store

145.

Summit Mall

OH

Akron

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1965

93.0

%

432,936

330,976

763,912

Dillard's Women's & Children's, Dillard's Men's & Home, Macy's

146.

Sunland Park Mall

TX

El Paso

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1988

94.4

%

575,837

342,234

918,071

Macy's, Dillard's Women's & Children's, Dillard's Men's & Home, Mervyn's, Sears

147.

Tacoma Mall

WA

Tacoma

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1987

98.9

%

924,045

407,010

1,331,055

Nordstrom, Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Mervyn's

148.

Tippecanoe Mall

IN

Lafayette

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1973

89.8

%

537,790

322,694

860,484

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Kohl's, Dick's Sporting Goods, H.H. Gregg

149.

Town Center at Aurora

CO

Aurora (Denver)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

85.2

%

676,637

401,903

1,078,540

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears

150.

Town Center at Boca Raton

FL

Boca Raton (W. Palm Beach)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

99.3

%

1,085,312

493,628

1,578,940

Saks Fifth Avenue, Neiman Marcus, Bloomingdale's, Nordstrom, Macy's, Sears, Crate & Barrel (6)

151.

Town Center at Cobb

GA

Kennesaw (Atlanta)

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

96.1

%

866,381

406,050

1,272,431

Macy's, Macy's Home & Furniture, Parisian (19), JCPenney, Sears

152.

Towne East Square

KS

Wichita

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1975

88.0

%

779,490

358,838

1,138,328

Dillard's, Von Maur, JCPenney, Sears

153.

Towne West Square

KS

Wichita

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1980

83.1

%

619,269

332,287

951,556

Dillard's Women's & Home, Dillard's Men's & Children, JCPenney, Sears, Dick's Sporting Goods

154.

Treasure Coast Square

FL

Jensen Beach (Ft. Pierce)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1987

92.8

%

511,372

350,369

861,741

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, Borders Books & Music

155.

Tyrone Square

FL

St. Petersburg (Tampa — St. Pete)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1972

96.2

%

748,269

372,971

1,121,240

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, Borders Books & Music

156.

University Mall

AR

Little Rock

Ground Lease (2026)

100.0

%

Built 1967

62.0

%

364,992

153,534

518,526

JCPenney, M.M. Cohn, (8)

157.

University Mall

FL

Pensacola

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1994

85.0

%

478,449

230,952

709,401

JCPenney, Sears, Belk

158.

University Park Mall

IN

Mishawaka (South Bend)

Fee

60.0

%

Built 1979

95.3

%

499,876

319,620

819,496

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears

159.

Upper Valley Mall

OH

Springfield (Dayton — Springfield)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1971

77.7

%

479,418

262,978

742,396

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Elder-Beerman

160.

Valle Vista Mall

TX

Harlingen

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1983

82.5

%

389,781

265,886

655,667

Dillard's, JCPenney, Mervyn's, Sears, Marshalls, Steve & Barry's

161.

Valley Mall

VA

Harrisonburg

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

94.6

%

315,078

190,648

505,726

JCPenney, Belk, Target, Old Navy, (8)


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

162.

Virginia Center Commons

VA

Glen Allen (Richmond)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1991

96.6

%

506,639

280,817

787,456

Macy's, Dillard's Women's, Dillard's Men's, Children's & Home, JCPenney, Sears

163.

Walt Whitman Mall

NY

Huntington Station (New York)

Ground Lease (2012)

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

90.6

%

742,214

294,140

1,036,354

Saks Fifth Avenue, Bloomingdale's, Lord & Taylor, Macy's

164.

Washington Square

IN

Indianapolis

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1974

79.2

%

616,109

348,781

964,890

Macy's, Sears, Target, Dick's Sporting Goods, Burlington Coat Factory, Steve & Barry's

165.

West Ridge Mall

KS

Topeka

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1988

86.4

%

716,811

281,646

998,457

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears, Burlington Coat Factory (6)

166.

West Town Mall

TN

Knoxville

Ground Lease (2042)

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1991

97.3

%

878,311

451,465

1,329,776

Parisian (19), Dillard's, JCPenney, Belk, Sears

167.

Westchester, The

NY

White Plains (New York)

Fee

40.0

% (4)

Acquired 1997

97.0

%

349,393

478,254

(18)

827,647

Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom

168.

Westminster Mall

CA

Westminster (Orange County)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

94.1

%

716,939

496,376

1,213,315

Macy's, JCPenney, Sears, Target (6)

169.

White Oaks Mall

IL

Springfield

Fee

77.5

%

Built 1977

94.0

%

556,831

379,688

936,519

Macy's, Bergner's, Sears, Linens'n Things, Cost Plus World Market, Dick's Sporting Goods

170.

Wolfchase Galleria

TN

Memphis

Fee

94.5

%

Acquired 2002

99.3

%

761,648

505,461

1,267,109

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears

171.

Woodland Hills Mall

OK

Tulsa

Fee

94.5

%

Acquired 2002

98.8

%

706,159

382,115

1,088,274

Macy's, Dillard's, JCPenney, Sears

Total Regional Mall GLA

100,739,129

65,637,622

166,376,751

PREMIUM OUTLET CENTERS

1.

Albertville Premium Outlets

MN

Albertville (Minneapolis/St. Paul)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

98.1

%

—

429,534

429,534

Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Kenneth Cole, Liz Claiborne, Gap Outlet, Old Navy, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Coach, Nike

2.

Allen Premium Outlets

TX

Allen (Dallas)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

98.9

%

—

412,792

412,792

Brooks Brothers, Cole-Haan, Kenneth Cole, Liz Claiborne, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Ann Taylor, Nike

3.

Aurora Farms Premium Outlets

OH

Aurora (Cleveland)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

95.4

%

—

300,181

300,181

Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Gap Outlet, Liz Claiborne, Nautica, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Coach

4.

Camarillo Premium Outlets

CA

Camarillo (Los Angeles)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

454,089

454,089

Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Barneys New York, Coach, Hugo Boss, Polo Ralph Lauren, St. John, Diesel, Kenneth Cole, Nike, Sony

5.

Carlsbad Premium Outlets

CA

Carlsbad

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

287,936

287,936

Adidas, Banana Republic, Barneys New York, BCBG Max Azria, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Polo Ralph Lauren

6.

Carolina Premium Outlets

NC

Smithfield (Raleigh — Durham — Chapel Hill)

Ground Lease (2029)

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

439,445

439,445

Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Gap Outlet, Liz Claiborne, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger, Coach

7.

Chicago Premium Outlets

IL

Aurora (Chicago)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 2004

100.0

%

—

437,800

437,800

Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Diesel, Dooney & Bourke, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Giorgio Armani, Max Mara, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

8.

Clinton Crossing Premium Outlets

CT

Clinton (Hartford)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

276,163

276,163

Barneys New York, Calvin Klein, Coach, Dooney & Bourke, Gap Outlet, Kenneth Cole, Liz Claiborne, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren

9.

Columbia Gorge Premium Outlets

OR

Troutdale (Portland — Vancouver)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

99.2

%

—

163,815

163,815

Adidas, Carter's, Gap Outlet, Samsonite, Van Heusen, Liz Claiborne

10.

Desert Hills Premium Outlets

CA

Cabazon (Palm Springs — Los Angeles)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

498,837

498,837

Burberry, Coach, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, MaxMara, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Versace, Yves Saint Laurent Rive Gauche, Zegna

11.

Edinburgh Premium Outlets

IN

Edinburgh (Indianapolis)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

377,717

377,717

Banana Republic, Coach, Gap Outlet, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein, J. Crew

12.

Folsom Premium Outlets

CA

Folsom (Sacramento)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

299,351

299,351

Brooks Brothers, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Liz Claiborne, Nautica, Nike, Nine West, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue

13.

Gilroy Premium Outlets

CA

Gilroy (San Jose)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

577,305

577,305

Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, J. Crew, Hugo Boss, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger

14.

Jackson Premium Outlets

NJ

Jackson

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

285,775

285,775

Calvin Klein, Gap Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Banana Republic, J. Crew, Liz Claiborne

15.

Johnson Creek Premium Outlets

WI

Johnson Creek

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

96.7

%

—

277,585

277,585

Calvin Klein, Gap Outlet, Lands' End, Nike, Old Navy Outlet, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Adidas, Banana Republic

16.

Kittery Premium Outlets

ME

Kittery (Boston)

Ground Lease (2009)

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

91.5

%

—

150,491

150,491

Ann Klein, Banana Republic, Gap Outlet, Coach, J. Crew, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok

17.

Las Vegas Premium Outlets

NV

Las Vegas

Fee

100.0

%

Built 2003

100.0

%

—

434,978

434,978

Ann Taylor, A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Dolce & Gabbana, Elie Tahari, Polo Ralph Lauren

18.

Las Vegas Outlet Center

NV

Las Vegas

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

477,002

477,002

Liz Claiborne, Nike, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, VF Outlet, Adidas, Calvin Klein

19.

Leesburg Corner Premium Outlets

VA

Leesburg (Washington DC)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

463,288

463,288

Barneys New York, Kenneth Cole, Liz Claiborne, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Williams-Sonoma, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Coach, Restoration Hardware

20.

Liberty Village Premium Outlets

NJ

Flemington (New York — Philadelphia)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

97.8

%

—

173,067

173,067

Calvin Klein, Ellen Tracy, Jones New York, L.L. Bean, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Timberland, Waterford Wedgwood

21.

Lighthouse Place Premium Outlets

IN

Michigan City (Chicago)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

456,466

456,466

Burberry, Coach, Gap Outlet, Liz Claiborne, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Ann Taylor, Nike

22.

Napa Premium Outlets

CA

Napa (Napa Valley)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

179,348

179,348

Banana Republic, Barneys New York, Calvin Klein, J. Crew, Kenneth Cole, Nautica, Tommy Hilfiger, TSE, Coach


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

23.

North Georgia Premium Outlets

GA

Dawsonville (Atlanta)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

539,757

539,757

Calvin Klein, Coach, Hugo Boss, Liz Claiborne, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Williams-Sonoma, J. Crew, Nike, Restoration Hardware

24.

Orlando Premium Outlets

FL

Orlando

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

435,695

435,695

Barneys New York, Burberry, Coach, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Hugo Boss, MaxMara, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Dior, LaCoste, Salvatore Ferragamo

25.

Osage Beach Premium Outlets

MO

Osage Beach

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

99.0

%

—

391,381

391,381

Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Liz Claiborne, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger

26.

Petaluma Village Premium Outlets

CA

Petaluma (San Francisco)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

99.6

%

—

195,837

195,837

Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, Liz Claiborne, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Puma

27.

Rio Grande Valley Premium Outlets

TX

Mercedes

Fee

100.0

%

Built 2006

95.2

%

403,207

403,207

Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Nike, Sony

28.

Round Rock Premium Outlets

TX

Round Rock (Austin)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 2006

99.2

%

431,621

431,621

Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory

29.

Seattle Premium Outlets

WA

Seattle

Ground Lease (2035)

100.0

%

Built 2005

100.0

%

—

402,668

402,668

Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Liz Claiborne, Adidas, Adrienne Vittadini, Restoration Hardware

30.

St. Augustine Premium Outlets

FL

St. Augustine (Jacksonsville)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

99.0

%

—

328,489

328,489

Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Bahama

31.

The Crossings Premium Outlets

PA

Tannersville

Fee and Ground Lease (2009) (7)

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

411,774

411,774

Ann Taylor, Coach, Liz Claiborne, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Burberry

32.

Vacaville Premium Outlets

CA

Vacaville

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

444,252

444,252

Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware

33.

Waikele Premium Outlets

HI

Waipahu (Honolulu)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

209,846

209,846

A -- X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Barneys New York, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, Kenneth Cole, MaxMara, Polo Ralph Lauren

34.

Waterloo Premium Outlets

NY

Waterloo

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

98.3

%

—

417,577

417,577

Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J. Crew, Liz Claiborne, Polo Ralph Lauren, Banana Republic

35.

Woodbury Common Premium Outlets

NY

Central Valley (New York City)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

844,553

844,553

Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Chanel, Dior, Coach, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Neiman Marcus Last Call, Polo Ralph Lauren, Frette

36.

Wrentham Village Premium Outlets

MA

Wrentham (Boston)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

615,713

615,713

Barneys New York, Burberry, Coach, Hugo Boss, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragmo, Sony, Williams Sonoma

Total Premium Outlet Center GLA

—

13,925,335

13,925,335


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

COMMUNITY/LIFESTYLE CENTERS

1.

Arboretum at Great Hills

TX

Austin

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

93.6

%

35,773

167,628

203,401

Barnes & Noble, Pottery Barn

2.

Bloomingdale Court

IL

Bloomingdale

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1987

98.3

%

467,513

162,846

630,359

Best Buy, T.J. Maxx N More, Office Max, Old Navy, Linens 'n Things, Wal-Mart, Circuit City, Dick's Sporting Goods, Jo-Ann Fabrics

3.

Boardman Plaza

OH

Youngstown

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1951

73.2

%

365,507

240,730

606,237

Hobby Lobby, Alltel, Linens 'n Things, Burlington Coat Factory, Giant Eagle, (8)

4.

Brightwood Plaza

IN

Indianapolis

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1965

100.0

%

—

38,493

38,493

Safeway

5.

Celina Plaza

TX

El Paso

Fee and Ground Lease (2012) (11)

100.0

%

Built 1978

100.0

%

—

8,695

8,695

6.

Charles Towne Square

SC

Charleston

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1976

100.0

%

71,794

—

71,794

7.

Chesapeake Center

VA

Chesapeake

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1989

70.4

%

213,651

92,284

305,935

K-Mart, Movies 10, Petsmart, Michaels, Value City Furniture (6)

8.

Clay Terrace

IN

Carmel (Indianapolis)

Fee

50.0

% (4) (18)

Built 2004

90.0

%

161,281

336,375

497,656

Dick's Sporting Goods, Wild Oats Natural Marketplace, DSW, Circuit City Superstore

9.

Cobblestone Court

NY

Victor

Fee and Ground Lease (2038) (7)

35.0

% (4) (13)

Built 1993

99.4

%

206,680

58,781

265,461

Dick's Sporting Goods, Kmart, Office Max

10.

Countryside Plaza

IL

Countryside

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1977

82.1

%

308,489

95,267

403,756

Best Buy, Home Depot, PetsMart, Jo-Ann Fabrics, Office Depot, Value City Furniture, (8)

11.

Crystal Court

IL

Crystal Lake

Fee

35.0

% (4) (13)

Built 1989

78.4

%

201,993

76,977

278,970

Wal-Mart, Garden Fresh (6)

12.

Dare Centre

NC

Kill Devil Hills

Ground Lease (2058)

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

98.7

%

127,172

41,391

168,563

Belk, Food Lion

13.

DeKalb Plaza

PA

King of Prussia

Fee

50.3

% (15)

Acquired 2003

81.9

%

81,368

20,374

101,742

Lane Home Furnishings, ACME Grocery

14.

Eastland Convenience Center

IN

Evansville

Ground Lease (2075)

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

96.1

%

126,699

48,940

175,639

Marshalls, Toys 'R Us, Bed Bath & Beyond

15.

Eastland Plaza

OK

Tulsa

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1986

70.9

%

152,451

33,623

186,074

Marshalls, Target, Toys 'R Us

16.

Empire East (1)

SD

Sioux Falls

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Acquired 1998

98.1

%

248,181

49,097

297,278

Kohl's, Target, Bed Bath & Beyond

17.

Fairfax Court

VA

Fairfax

Fee

26.3

% (4) (13)

Built 1992

100.0

%

169,043

80,615

249,658

Burlington Coat Factory, Circuit City Superstore, Offenbacher's

18.

Forest Plaza

IL

Rockford

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1985

84.5

%

324,794

100,584

425,378

Kohl's, Marshalls, Michael's, Factory Card Outlet, Office Max, T.J. Maxx, Bed Bath & Beyond, Petco, Circuit City (6), Babies 'R Us (6)

19.

Gaitway Plaza

FL

Ocala

Fee

23.3

% (4) (13)

Built 1989

99.1

%

123,027

85,713

208,740

Books-A-Million, Office Depot, T.J. Maxx, Ross Dress for Less, Bed Bath & Beyond

20.

Gateway Shopping Centers

TX

Austin

Fee

95.0

%


99.4

%

329,576

182,790

512,366

Star Furniture, Best Buy, Linens 'n Things, Recreational Equipment, Inc., Whole Foods, Crate & Barrel, CompUSA, The Container Store, Old Navy

21.

Great Lakes Plaza

OH

Mentor (Cleveland)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1976

100.0

%

142,229

21,875

164,104

Circuit City, Michael's, Best Buy, Cost Plus World Market, Linens 'n Things

22.

Greenwood Plus

IN

Greenwood

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1979

100.0

%

134,141

21,178

155,319

Best Buy, Kohl's

23.

Griffith Park Plaza

IN

Griffith

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1979

73.4

%

175,595

88,455

264,050

K-Mart

24.

Henderson Square

PA

King of Prussia

Fee

76.0

% (15)

Acquired 2003

100.0

%

72,683

34,690

107,373

Staples, Genuardi's Family Market


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

25.

Highland Lakes Center

FL

Orlando

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1991

79.2

%

352,405

140,862

493,267

Marshalls, Bed Bath & Beyond, American Signature Furniture, Save-Rite Supermarkets, Ross Dress for Less, Office Max, Burlington Coat Factory, K&G Menswear, (8)

26.

Indian River Commons

FL

Vero Beach

Fee

50.0

% (4)

Built 1997

100.0

%

233,358

19,396

252,754

Lowe's, Best Buy, Ross Dress for Less, Bed Bath & Beyond, Michael's

27.

Ingram Plaza

TX

San Antonio

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1980

100.0

%

—

111,518

111,518

Bealls, Cost Plus World Market

28.

Keystone Shoppes

IN

Indianapolis

Ground Lease (2067)

100.0

%

Acquired 1997

100.0

%

—

29,140

29,140

29.

Knoxville Commons

TN

Knoxville

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1987

100.0

%

91,483

88,980

180,463

Office Max, Circuit City, Carolina Pottery

30.

Lake Plaza

IL

Waukegan

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1986

100.0

%

170,789

44,673

215,462

Pick and Save Mega Mart, Home Owners Bargain Outlet

31.

Lake View Plaza

IL

Orland Park (Chicago)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1986

94.6

%

261,856

109,396

371,252

Factory Card Outlet, Linens 'n Things, Best Buy, Petco, Jo-Ann Fabrics, Golf Galaxy, Value City Furniture, Loehmann's

32.

Lakeline Plaza

TX

Austin

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1998

98.5

%

275,754

111,709

387,463

Linens 'n Things, T.J. Maxx, Old Navy, Best Buy, Ross Dress for Less, Office Max, PetsMart, Party City, Cost Plus World Market, Toys 'R Us

33.

Lima Center

OH

Lima

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1978

89.0

%

189,584

47,294

236,878

Kohl's, Hobby Lobby, T.J. Maxx

34.

Lincoln Crossing

IL

O'Fallon

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1990

100.0

%

229,820

13,446

243,266

Wal-Mart, PetsMart, The Home Depot

35.

Lincoln Plaza

PA

King of Prussia

Fee

63.2

% (15)

Acquired 2003

99.7

%

143,649

123,582

267,231

Burlington Coat Factory, Circuit City, Lane Home Furnishings, AC Moore, Michaels, T.J. Maxx, Home Goods (6)

36.

MacGregor Village

NC

Cary

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

83.7

%

—

143,563

143,563

Spa Health Club, Tuesday Morning

37.

Mall of Georgia Crossing

GA

Buford (Atlanta)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1999

98.7

%

341,503

99,109

440,612

Best Buy, American Signature Furniture, T.J. Maxx, Nordstrom Rack, Staples, Target

38.

Markland Plaza

IN

Kokomo

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1974

100.0

%

49,051

41,476

90,527

Best Buy, Bed Bath & Beyond

39.

Martinsville Plaza

VA

Martinsville

Space Lease (2046)

100.0

%

Built 1967

97.1

%

60,000

42,105

102,105

Rose's

40.

Matteson Plaza

IL

Matteson

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1988

94.3

%

230,885

40,070

270,955

Michael's, Dominick's, Value City Department Store, (8)

41.

Muncie Plaza

IN

Muncie

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1998

98.6

%

271,626

27,195

298,821

Kohl's, Shoe Carnival, T.J. Maxx, (17)

42.

New Castle Plaza

IN

New Castle

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1966

100.0

%

24,912

66,736

91,648

Goody's, Jo-Ann Fabrics

43.

North Ridge Plaza

IL

Joliet

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1985

97.5

%

190,323

114,747

305,070

Hobby Lobby, Office Max, Fun In Motion, Minnesota Fabrics, Burlington Coat Factory (6)

44.

North Ridge Shopping Center

NC

Raleigh

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

97.1

%

43,247

122,906

166,153

Ace Hardware, Kerr Drugs, Harris-Teeter Grocery

45.

Northwood Plaza

IN

Fort Wayne

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1974

85.4

%

136,404

71,841

208,245

Target

46.

Park Plaza

KY

Hopkinsville

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1968

91.8

%

82,398

32,526

114,924

Big Lots, Peddler's Mall

47.

Plaza at Buckland Hills, The

CT

Manchester

Fee

35.0

% (4) (13)

Built 1993

95.6

%

252,179

82,348

334,527

Linens 'n Things, CompUSA, Jo-Ann Fabrics, Party City, The Maytag Store, Toys 'R Us, Michaels, PetsMart, (17)


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

48.

Regency Plaza

MO

St. Charles

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1988

95.5

%

210,627

76,846

287,473

Wal-Mart, Sam's Wholesale Club

49.

Ridgewood Court

MS

Jackson

Fee

35.0

% (4) (13)

Built 1993

96.9

%

185,939

54,732

240,671

T.J. Maxx, Lifeway Christian Bookstore, Bed Bath & Beyond, Best Buy, Michaels, Marshalls

50.

Rockaway Convenience Center

NJ

Rockaway (New York)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

94.1

%

44,518

104,393

148,911

Best Buy, Acme, Cost Plus World Market, Office Depot

51.

Rockaway Town Plaza

NJ

Rockaway (New York)

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 1998

100.0

%

407,501

51,316

458,817

Target, Pier 1 Imports, PetsMart, Dick's Sporting Goods

52.

Royal Eagle Plaza

FL

Coral Springs (Miami — Ft. Lauderale)

Fee

35.0

% (4) (13)

Built 1989

98.4

%

124,479

77,624

202,103

K Mart, Stein Mart

53.

Shops at Arbor Walk, The

TX

Austin

Ground Lease (2055)

100.0

%

Built 2006

89.1

%

126,610

223,298

349,908

Home Depot, Marshall's, DSW, Golf Galaxy, Jo-Ann Fabrics (6)

54.

Shops at North East Mall, The

TX

Hurst

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1999

98.2

%

265,595

99,148

364,743

Michael's, PetsMart, Old Navy, Pier 1 Imports, T.J. Maxx, Bed Bath & Beyond, Nordstrom Rack, Best Buy

55.

St. Charles Towne Plaza

MD

Waldorf (Washington, D.C.)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1987

79.1

%

286,081

108,690

394,771

T.J. Maxx, Jo-Ann Fabrics, K & G Menswear, CVS, Shoppers Food Warehouse, Dollar Tree, Value City Furniture, Gallo, (8)

56.

Teal Plaza

IN

Lafayette

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1962

100.0

%

98,337

2,750

101,087

Hobby Lobby, Circuit City, Pep Boys

57.

Terrace at the Florida Mall

FL

Orlando

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1989

97.9

%

289,252

42,731

331,983

Marshalls, American Signature Furniture, Global Import, Target, Bed Bath & Beyond, (8)

58.

Tippecanoe Plaza

IN

Lafayette

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1974

100.0

%

85,811

4,711

90,522

Best Buy, Barnes & Noble

59.

University Center

IN

Mishawaka

Fee

60.0

%

Built 1980

87.5

%

104,347

46,177

150,524

Michael's, Best Buy, Linens 'n Things

60.

Village Park Plaza

IN

Carmel (Indianapolis)

Fee

35.0

% (4) (13)

Built 1990

98.8

%

414,593

134,923

549,516

Bed Bath & Beyond, Ashley Furniture HomeStore, Kohl's, Wal-Mart, Marsh, Menards

61.

Washington Plaza

IN

Indianapolis

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1976

100.0

%

21,500

28,607

50,107

62.

Waterford Lakes Town Center

FL

Orlando

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1999

100.0

%

622,244

329,446

951,690

Ross Dress for Less, T.J. Maxx, Bed Bath & Beyond, Old Navy, Barnes & Noble, Best Buy, Jo-Ann Fabrics, Office Max, PetsMart, Target, Ashley Furniture HomeStore, L.A. Fitness

63.

West Ridge Plaza

KS

Topeka

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1988

89.5

%

182,161

59,226

241,387

Famous Footwear, T.J. Maxx, Toys 'R Us, Target

64.

West Town Corners

FL

Altamonte Springs

Fee

23.3

% (4) (13)

Built 1989

99.2

%

263,782

121,477

(18)

385,259

Sports Authority, PetsMart, Winn-Dixie Marketplace, American Signature Furniture, Wal-Mart

65.

Westland Park Plaza

FL

Orange Park

Fee

23.3

% (4) (13)

Built 1989

99.1

%

123,548

39,606

163,154

Sports Authority, PetsMart, Burlington Coat Factory

66.

White Oaks Plaza

IL

Springfield

Fee

100.0

%

Built 1986

98.9

%

275,703

115,723

391,426

T.J. Maxx, Office Max, Kohl's Babies 'R Us, Kids 'R Us, Cub Foods

67.

Whitehall Mall

PA

Whitehall

Fee

38.0

% (15) (4)

Acquired 2003

91.2

%

444,916

143,168

588,084

Sears, Kohl's, Bed Bath & Beyond, Borders Books & Music, Gold's Gym


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

68.

Willow Knolls Court

IL

Peoria

Fee

35.0

% (4) (13)

Built 1990

98.4

%

309,440

72,937

382,377

Willow Knolls 14, Burlington Coat Factory, Kohl's, Sam's Wholesale Club

69.

Wolf Ranch

TX

Georgetown (Austin)

Fee

100.0

%

Built 2005

77.4

%

395,071

218,908

613,979

Kohl's, Target, Linens 'n Things, Michaels, Best Buy, Office Depot, Old Navy, Pier 1 Imports, PetsMart, T.J. Maxx, DSW

Total Community/Lifestyle Center GLA

13,152,921

5,968,456

19,121,377

OTHER PROPERTIES

1.

Crossville Outlet Center

TN

Crossville

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

151,256

151,256

Bass, Dress Barn, Liz Claiborne, Van Heusen, VF Outlet

2.

Factory Merchants Branson

MO

Branson

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

83.3

%

—

269,307

269,307

Carter's, Izod, Nautica, Pfaltzgraff, Reebok, Pendelton, Tuesday Morning

3.

Factory Stores of America-Boaz

AL

Boaz

Ground Lease (2007)

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

72.8

%

—

111,909

111,909

Banister/Easy Spirit, Bon Worth, VF Outlet

4.

Factory Stores of America-Georgetown

KY

Georgetown

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

96.5

%

—

176,615

176,615

Bass, Dress Barn, Van Heusen

5.

Factory Stores of America-Graceville

FL

Graceville

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

98.0

%

—

83,962

83,962

Factory Brand Shoes, VF Outlet, Van Heusen

6.

Factory Stores of America-Lebanon

MO

Lebanon

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

86,249

86,249

Dress Barn, VF Outlet, Van Heusen

7.

Factory Stores of America-Nebraska City

NE

Nebraska City

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

100.0

%

—

89,646

89,646

Bass, Dress Barn, VF Outlet

8.

Factory Stores of America-Story City

IA

Story City

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

84.0

%

—

112,405

112,405

Dress Barn, Factory Brand Shoes, VF Outlet, Van Heusen

9.

Factory Stores of North Bend

WA

North Bend

Fee

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

98.4

%

—

223,402

223,402

Adidas, Bass, Carter's, Eddie Bauer, Nike, OshKosh B'Gosh, Samsonite, Gap Outlet

10.

The Factory Shoppes at Branson Meadows

MO

Branson

Ground Lease (2021)

100.0

%

Acquired 2004

88.6

%

286,924

286,924

Branson Meadows Cinemas, Dress Barn Woman, VF Outlet

Total Other GLA

—

1,591,675

1,591,675

Total U.S. Properties GLA

113,892,050

87,123,088

201,015,138


Simon Property Group

Property Table

U.S. Properties

Gross Leasable Area

Property Name

State

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership Interest (Expiration if Lease) (3)

Legal Ownership

Year Built or Acquired

Occupancy (5)

Anchor

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

PROPERTIES UNDER CONSTRUCTION

Expected Opening

1.

Domain, The

TX

Austin

Fee

100.0

%

3/07

N/A

—

—

—

Neiman Marcus, Macy's

2.

Philadelphia Premium Outlets

PA

Limerick

Fee

100.0

%

11/07

N/A

—

—

—

3.

Palms Crossing

TX

McAllen

Fee

100.0

%

11/07

N/A

—

—

—

Bealls, DSW, Barnes & Noble, Babies 'R Us, Sports Authority, Guitar Center, Cavendar's Boot City

4.

Pier Park

FL

Panama City Beach

Fee

100.0

%

3/08

N/A

—

—

—

Dillard's, JCPenney, Target, Old Navy, Borders Books & Music

5.

Hamilton Town Center

IN

Noblesville (Indianapolis)

Fee

50.0

%

3/08

N/A

—

—

—

JCPenney

FOOTNOTES:

(1)

This
Property is managed by a third party.

(2)

The
Operating Partnership's direct and indirect interests in some of the Properties held as joint venture interests are subject to preferences on distributions in favor
of other partners or the Operating Partnership.

(3)

The
date listed is the expiration date of the last renewal option available to the operating entity under the ground lease. In a majority of the ground leases, we have a
right of first refusal or the right to purchase the lessor's interest. Unless otherwise indicated, each ground lease listed in this column covers at least 50% of its respective Property.

(4)

Joint
Venture Properties accounted for under the equity method.

(5)

Regional
Malls—Executed leases for all company-owned GLA in mall and freestanding stores, excluding majors. Premium Outlet Centers—Executed
leases for all company-owned GLA (or total center GLA). Community Centers—Executed leases for all company-owned GLA including majors, mall stores and freestanding stores.

(6)

Indicates
anchor is currently under development.

(7)

Indicates
ground lease covers less than 50% of the acreage of this Property.

(8)

Indicates
vacant anchor space(s).

(9)

The
lease at the Mall at Chestnut Hill includes the entire premises including land and building.

(10)

Indicates
ground lease covers all of the Property except for parcels owned in fee by anchors.

(11)

Indicates
ground lease covers outparcel only.

(12)

The
Operating Partnership receives substantially all the economic benefit of the property due to a preference or advance.

(13)

Outside
partner receives substantially all of the economic benefit due to a partner preference.

(14)

The
Operating Partnership owns a mortgage note that encumbers Pheasant Lane Mall that entitles it to 100% of the economics of this property.

(15)

The
Operating Partnership's indirect ownership interest is through an approximately 76% ownership interest in Kravco Simon Investments.

(16)

Indicates
anchor has announced its intent to close this location.

(17)

Indicates
anchor has closed, but the Operating Partnership still collects rents and/or fees under an agreement.


(18)

Mall &
Freestanding GLA includes office space as follows:

Arsenal Mall—105,807 sq. ft.

Lenox Square—2,674 sq. ft.

Century III Mall—35,929 sq. ft.

Menlo Park Mall—50,615 sq. ft.

Circle Centre Mall—9,123 sq. ft.

Oak Court Mall—126,319 sq. ft.

Copley Place—856,586 sq. ft.

Oxford Valley Mall—109,832 sq. ft.

Fashion Centre at Pentagon City, The—169,089 sq. ft.

Plaza Carolina—28,192 sq. ft.

Fashion Mall at Keystone, The—10,927 sq. ft.

River Oaks Center—118,311 sq. ft.

Firewheel Town Center—75,000 sq. ft.

Roosevelt Field—1,610 sq. ft.

Greendale Mall—119,860 sq. ft.

Stanford Shopping Center—5,748 sq. ft.

The Plaza & Court at King of Prussia—13,627 sq. ft.

The Westchester—820 sq. ft.

Lehigh Valley Mall—11,754 sq. ft.

(19)

Parisian locations will convert to Belk nameplate in 2007.

(20)

Nordstrom
to open stores in locations previously operated by others at Burlington Mall (2008), Ross Park Mall (2008), Fashion Mall at Keystone (2008), South Shore Plaza
(2009), and Northshore Mall (2010).


International Properties

We own interests in properties outside the United States through the following international joint venture arrangements.

European Investments

The following summarizes our joint venture investments in Europe and the underlying countries in which these joint ventures own and operate real estate properties
as of December 31, 2006:

Joint Venture Investment

Ownership

Interest

Properties open and operating

Countries of Operation

Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A. ("GCI")

49.0

%


Italy

Simon Ivanhoe S.à.r.l. ("Simon Ivanhoe")

50.0

%


France, Poland

In addition, we jointly hold with a third party an interest in one parcel of land for development near Paris, France outside of these two joint ventures. Simon
Ivanhoe also operates through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Groupe BEG, S.A. ("BEG"). Simon Ivanhoe and BEG are fully integrated European retail real estate developers, owners and managers.

Our
properties in Europe consist primarily of hypermarket-anchored shopping centers. Substantially all of our European properties are anchored by either the hypermarket retailer Auchan,
primarily in Italy, who is also our partner in GCI, or are anchored by the hypermarket Carrefour in France and Poland. Certain of these properties are subject to leaseholds whereby GCI leases all or a
portion of the premises from a third party who is entitled to receive substantially all the economic benefits of that portion of the properties. Auchan and Carrefour are the two largest hypermarket
operators in Europe.

Other International Investments

We also hold real estate interests in five joint ventures in Japan and one in Mexico. The five joint ventures in Japan operate Premium Outlet centers in various
cities in Japan and have over 1.4 million square feet of GLA. These centers were 100% leased as of December 31, 2006 and contained 600 stores with approximately 300 different tenants.
The Premium Outlet center in Mexico is 85% leased as of December 31, 2006.

The
following summarizes these six Premium Outlet centers in international joint ventures:

Joint Venture Investment Holdings

Ownership

Interest

Gotemba Premium Outlets — Gotemba City (Tokyo), Japan

40.0

%

Rinku Premium Outlets — Izumisano (Osaka), Japan

40.0

%

Sano Premium Outlets — Sano (Tokyo), Japan

40.0

%

Toki Premium Outlets — Toki (Nagoya), Japan

40.0

%

Tosu Premium Outlets — Fukuoka (Kyushu), Japan

40.0

%

Punta Norte Premium Outlets — Mexico City, Mexico

50.0

%

We also have begun construction on Yeoju Premium Outlets, a 253,000 square foot center located in South Korea. We have a 50% interest in this property with the
remaining 50% interest owned by Shinsegae. Also, through a joint venture arrangement with MSREF and SZITIC CP, we have a 32.5% interest in four shopping centers that are under construction in China
aggregating 1.9 million square feet of GLA.

The
following property table summarizes certain data on our properties that are under operation in Europe, Japan, and Mexico at December 31, 2006.


Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

International Property Table

Gross Leasable Area (1)

COUNTRY/Property Name

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership

Interest

SPG

Ownership

Year Built

Hypermarket/Anchor (4)

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

FRANCE

1.

Bay 2

Torcy (Paris)

Fee

50.0

%


132,400

408,900

541,300

Carrefour, Leroy Merlin

2.

Bay 1

Torcy (Paris)

Fee

50.0

%


—

336,300

336,300

Conforama, Go Sport

3.

Bel'Est

Bagnolet (Paris)

Fee

17.5

%


150,700

63,000

213,700

Auchan

4.

Villabé A6

Villabé (Paris)

Fee

7.5

%


102,300

104,500

206,800

Carrefour

5.

Wasquehal

Wasquehal (Lille)

Fee

50.0

%


129,200

102,100

231,300

Carrefour

Subtotal France

514,600

1,014,800

1,529,400

ITALY

6.

Ancona — Senigallia

Senigallia (Ancona)

Fee

49.0

%


41,200

41,600

82,800

Cityper

7.

Ascoli Piceno — Grottammare

Grottammare (Ascoli Piceno)

Fee

49.0

%


38,900

55,900

94,800

Cityper, Scarpe & Scarpe

8.

Ascoli Piceno — Porto Sant'Elpidio

Porto Sant'Elpidio (Ascoli Piceno)

Fee

49.0

%


48,000

114,300

162,300

Cityper, Comet

9.

Bari — Casamassima

Casamassima (Bari)

Fee

49.0

%


159,000

388,800

547,800

Auchan, Coin, Eldo, Leroy Merlin, Decathlon, Oviesse, Kiabi, Upim

10.

Bari — Modugno (5)

Modugno (Bari)

Fee

49.0

%


96,900

46,600

143,500

Auchan

11.

Brescia — Mazzano

Mazzano (Brescia)

Fee/Leasehold (2)

49.0

% (2)


103,300

127,400

230,700

Auchan, Bricocenter, Upim, Trony

12.

Brindisi — Mesagne

Mesagne (Brindisi)

Fee

49.0

%


88,000

140,600

228,600

Auchan, Euronics

13.

Cagliari — Santa Gilla

Cagliari

Fee/Leasehold (2)

49.0

% (2)


75,900

114,800

190,700

Auchan, Bricocenter, Trony

14.

Catania — La Rena

Catania

Fee

49.0

%


124,100

22,100

146,200

Auchan

15.

Cuneo

Cuneo (Torino)

Fee

49.0

%


80,700

201,500

282,200

Auchan, Bricocenter, Decathlon, Upim, Euronics

16.

Giugliano

Giugliano (Napoli)

Fee

19.6

%


130,000

618,300

748,300

Auchan, Decathlon, Leroy Merlin, Oviesse, Conbipel, Scarpe & Scarpe, Eldo, Euronics

17.

Milano — Rescaldina

Rescaldina (Milano)

Fee

49.0

%


165,100

212,000

377,100

Auchan, Bricocenter, Decathlon, Media World, Upim

18.

Milano — Vimodrone

Vimodrone (Milano)

Fee

49.0

%


110,400

80,200

190,600

Auchan, Bricocenter

19.

Napoli — Pompei

Pompei (Napoli)

Fee

49.0

%


74,300

17,100

91,400

Auchan

20.

Padova

Padova

Fee

49.0

%


73,300

32,500

105,800

Auchan

21.

Palermo

Palermo

Fee

49.0

%


73,100

9,800

82,900

Auchan

22.

Pesaro — Fano

Fano (Pesaro)

Fee

49.0

%


56,300

56,000

112,300

Auchan

23.

Pescara

Pescara

Fee

49.0

%


96,300

65,200

161,500

Auchan, Upim, Euronics

24.

Pescara — Cepagatti

Cepagatti (Pescara)

Fee

49.0

%


80,200

189,600

269,800

Auchan, Bata, Emmezeta Marcatone Z

25.

Piacenza — San Rocco al Porto

San Rocco al Porto (Piacenza)

Fee

49.0

%


104,500

74,700

179,200

Auchan, Darty

26.

Roma — Collatina

Collatina (Roma)

Fee

49.0

%


59,500

4,100

63,600

Auchan

27.

Sassari — Predda Niedda

Predda Niedda (Sassari)

Fee/Leasehold (2)

49.0

% (2)


79,500

154,200

233,700

Auchan, Bricocenter, Upim, Media World


Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

International Property Table

Gross Leasable Area (1)

COUNTRY/Property Name

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership

Interest

SPG

Ownership

Year Built

Hypermarket/Anchor (4)

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

ITALY (continued)

28.

Taranto

Taranto

Fee

49.0

%


75,200

126,500

201,700

Auchan, Bricocenter, Upim

29.

Torino

Torino

Fee

49.0

%


105,100

66,700

171,800

Auchan, Upim

30.

Torino — Venaria

Venaria (Torino)

Fee

49.0

%


101,600

64,000

165,600

Auchan, Bricocenter

31.

Venezia — Mestre

Mestre (Venezia)

Fee

49.0

%


114,100

132,600

246,700

Auchan, Oviesse

32.

Vicenza

Vicenza

Fee

49.0

%


78,400

20,100

98,500

Auchan

33.

Ancona

Ancona

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


82,900

82,300

165,200

Auchan, Upim

34.

Bergamo

Bergamo

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


103,000

16,900

119,900

Auchan

35.

Brescia — Concesio

Concesio (Brescia)

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


89,900

27,600

117,500

Auchan, Bata

36.

Cagliari — Marconi

Cagliari

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


83,500

109,900

193,400

Auchan, Bricocenter, Bata, Trony

37.

Catania — Misterbianco

Misterbianco (Catania)

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


83,300

16,000

99,300

Auchan

38.

Merate — Lecco

Merate (Lecco)

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


73,500

88,500

162,000

Auchan, Bricocenter

39.

Milano — Cesano Boscone

Cesano Boscone (Milano)

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


163,800

120,100

283,900

Auchan

40.

Milano — Nerviano

Nerviano (Milano)

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


83,800

27,800

111,600

Auchan

41.

Napoli — Mugnano di Napoli

Mugnano di Napoli

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


98,000

94,900

192,900

Auchan, Bricocenter, Upim

42.

Olbia

Olbia

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


49,000

48,800

97,800

Auchan

43.

Roma — Casalbertone

Roma

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


62,700

84,900

147,600

Auchan, Upim

44.

Sassari — Centro Azuni

Sassari

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


—

35,600

35,600

Oviesse

45.

Torino — Rivoli

Rivoli (Torino)

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


61,800

32,300

94,100

Auchan

46.

Verona — Bussolengo

Bussolengo (Verona)

Leasehold (3)

49.0

% (3)


89,300

75,300

164,600

Auchan, Bricocenter

Subtotal Italy

3,557,400

4,038,100

7,595,500

POLAND

47.

Arkadia Shopping Center

Warsaw

Fee

50.0

%


202,100

902,200

1,104,300

Carrefour, Leroy Merlin, Media, Saturn, Cinema City, H & M, Zara, Royal Collection, Peek & Clopperburg

48.

Borek Shopping Center

Wroclaw

Fee

50.0

%


119,900

129,300

249,200

Carrefour

49.

Dabrowka Shopping Center

Katowice

Fee

50.0

%


121,000

172,900

293,900

Carrefour, Castorama

50.

Gliwice Shopping Center

Gliwice

Fee

50.0

%


140,700

239,000

379,700

Carrefour

51.

Turzyn Shopping Center

Szczecin

Fee

50.0

%


87,200

121,900

209,100

Carrefour

52.

Wilenska Station Shopping Center

Warsaw

Fee

50.0

%


92,700

215,900

308,600

Carrefour

53.

Zakopianka Shopping Center

Krakow

Fee

50.0

%


120,200

425,400

545,600

Carrefour, Castorama

Subtotal Poland

883,800

2,206,600

3,090,400


Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

International Property Table

Gross Leasable Area (1)

COUNTRY/Property Name

City (Metropolitan area)

Ownership

Interest

SPG

Ownership

Year Built

Hypermarket/Anchor (4)

Mall & Freestanding

Total

Retail Anchors and Major Tenants

JAPAN

54.

Gotemba Premium Outlets

Gotemba City (Tokyo)

Fee

40.0

%


—

390,000

390,000

Bally, Coach, Diesel, Gap, Gucci, Jill Stuart, L.L. Bean, Nike, Tod's

55.

Rinku Premium Outlets

Izumisano (Osaka)

Ground Lease (2020)

40.0

%


—

321,000

321,000

Bally, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap, Nautica, Nike, Timberland, Versace

56.

Sano Premium Outlets

Sano (Tokyo)

Ground Lease (2022)

40.0

%


—

318,200

318,200

Bally, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Nautica, New Yorker, Nine West, Timberland

57.

Toki Premium Outlets

Toki (Nagoya)

Ground Lease (2024)

40.0

%


—

231,200

231,200

Adidas, Brooks Brothers, Bruno Magli, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Furla, Nautica, Nike, Timberland, Versace

58.

Tosu Premium Outlets

Fukuoka (Kyushu)

Ground Lease (2023)

40.0

%


—

187,000

187,000

BCBG, Bose, Coach, Cole Haan, Lego, Nike, Petit Bateau, Max Azria, Theory

Subtotal Japan

—

1,447,400

1,447,400

MEXICO

59.

Punta Norte Premium Outlets

Mexico City

Fee

50.0

%


—

232,000

232,000

Christian Dior, Sony, Nautica, Levi's, Nike Rockport, Reebok, Adidas, Samsonite

Subtotal Mexico

—

232,000

232,000

TOTAL INTERNATIONAL ASSETS

4,955,800

8,938,900

13,894,700

FOOTNOTES:

(1)

All
gross leasable area listed in square feet.

(2)

This
property is held partially in fee and partially encumbered by a leasehold on the premise which entitles the lessor to the majority of the economics of the portion of the property
subject to the leasehold.

(3)

These
properties are encumbered by a leasehold on the entire premises which entitles the lessor the majority of the economics of the property.

(4)

Represents
the sales area of the anchor and excludes any warehouse/storage areas.

(5)

Gallerie
Commerciali Italia, in which we have a 49% joint venture interest, has been notified by an Italian appellate court that the center which opened in February 2004, though
properly permitted, was not in accordance the Modugno master plan. The joint venture is appealing the decision of the appellate court and is otherwise working to resolve the issue. The center remains
open. The joint venture partner has indemnified us for the amount of our allocated investment in the project.


Land Held for Development

We have direct or indirect ownership interests in five parcels of land held in the United States for future development, containing an aggregate of approximately
400 acres located in three states.

Also,
on December 28, 2005, we invested $50.0 million of equity for a 40% interest in a joint venture with Toll Brothers, Inc. (Toll Brothers) and Meritage Homes
Corp. (Meritage Homes) to purchase a 5,485-acre land parcel in northwest Phoenix from DaimlerChrysler Corporation for $312 million. Toll Brothers and Meritage Homes each plan to
build a significant number of homes on the site. We have the option to purchase a substantial portion of the commercial property for retail uses. Other parcels may also be sold to third parties. The
site plans call for a mixed-use master planned community, which will include approximately 4,840 acres of single-family homes and attached homes. Approximately 645 acres of commercial and
retail development will include schools, community amenities and open space. The entitlement, planning, and design processes are ongoing and initial home sales are tentatively scheduled to begin in
2009. The joint venture, of which Toll Brothers is the managing member, expects to develop a master planned community of approximately 12,000 to 15,000 residential units.

Energy Costs Conservation

In 2003, we began monitoring and benchmarking our energy consumption and initiated a process to assess energy efficiency across our enclosed mall properties. In
2004, we implemented a comprehensive strategy to improve energy efficiency. This included the launch of our Energy Best Practices Program, which challenged managers of our enclosed mall properties to
examine their operating practices in an effort to reduce energy costs without affecting comfort, safety or reliability. We also developed strategic relationships for investing in
cost-effective, energy-efficiency projects. In 2005, we enhanced the remote monitoring of our malls' Energy Management Systems to help ensure optimal system operations through alarm
delivery to mall operators and reporting of non-optimal operating practices to management. In 2006, we piloted various techniques in the area of demand shifting and response initiatives to
reduce load on utility networks when advised that supply capacity is critically low, while reducing our operating costs.

This
strategy helped us reduce electricity usage by 175 million kWhs for 2004, 2005, and 2006 combined, as compared to 2003. This is an 8.2% reduction in electricity usage which
represents approximately $18 million in avoided annual operating costs at current market prices. This reduction in electricity usage translates to the
avoidance of 110,576 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually, which is equivalent to 23,934 cars not driven for one year, saved electrical energy to power 14,195 U.S. homes for a full year, or 92,147
acres of pine or fir forests storing carbon for one year.

A
substantial portion of savings was generated through low cost/no cost measures ranging from simple actions to complex ones. For example, we minimize costs by keeping tight control
over hours of operation for all lighting systems in the common area, parking lot, and back of the house areas of our properties without affecting comfort or safety. We also optimize the start/stop of
HVAC systems with direct digital controls to meet cooling requirements. Another key strategy for management of energy use is the investment in energy efficient technologies in areas such as lighting,
HVAC and building control systems.

In
recognition of our excellence in energy efficiency, we received the 2005 Bronze Leader in the Light Award from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), in
collaboration with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). In 2006, our leadership was further recognized as we received the Gold Leader in the Light Award from NAREIT. Recipients are judged
on the basis of how effectively they have implemented company-wide operations that generate substantially improved energy efficiency and expense management.

For
the past two years, we also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project's greenhouse emissions information requests to inform investors of our activities in the area of climate
change and energy conservation. We also joined the U.S. EPA's ENERGY STAR program, with the goal of continuing to improve our organization's energy and environmental performance.

Mortgage Financing on Properties

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the mortgages and other debt encumbering our Properties and the properties held by our international
joint venture arrangements. Substantially all of the mortgage and property related debt is nonrecourse to us.


Mortgage and Other Debt on Portfolio Properties

As of December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Property Name

Interest

Rate

Face

Amount

Annual Debt

Service

Maturity

Date

Consolidated Indebtedness:

Secured Indebtedness:

Simon Property Group, LP:

Anderson Mall

6.20

%

$

28,634

$

2,216

10/10/12

Arsenal Mall — 1

6.75

%

31,433

2,724

09/28/08

Arsenal Mall — 2

8.20

%

1,326


05/05/16

Aventura Mall Credit Facility

6.32%

(1)

27,369

1,730

(2)

10/27/07

Bangor Mall

7.06

%

22,038

2,302

12/01/07

Battlefield Mall

4.60

%

97,839

6,154

07/01/13

Bloomingdale Court

7.78

%

27,532

(4)

2,578

11/01/09

Boardman Plaza

5.94

%

23,598

1,402

(2)

07/01/14

Brunswick Square

5.65

%

85,659

5,957

08/11/14

Carolina Premium Outlets — Smithfield

9.10

%

20,231

(6)

2,114

03/10/13

Century III Mall

6.20

%

84,525

(9)

6,541

10/10/12

Chesapeake Square

5.84

%

72,658

5,162

08/01/14

Cielo Vista Mall

9.38

%

47,433

(5)

5,828

05/01/07

College Mall — 1

7.00

%

32,630

(8)

3,908

01/01/09

College Mall — 2

6.76

%

10,710

(8)


01/01/09

Copley Place

7.44

%

171,126

16,266

08/01/07

Coral Square

8.00

%

85,740

8,065

10/01/10

The Crossings Premium Outlets

5.85

%

56,707

4,649

03/13/13

Crossroads Mall

6.20

%

42,451

3,285

10/10/12

Crystal River

7.63

%

15,341

1,385

11/11/10

(25)

Dare Centre

9.10

%

1,684

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

DeKalb Plaza

5.28

%

3,301


01/01/15

Desoto Square

5.89

%

64,153

3,779

(2)

07/01/14

The Factory Shoppes at Branson Meadows

9.10

%

9,409

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

Factory Stores of America — Boaz

9.10

%

2,752

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

Factory Stores of America — Georgetown

9.10

%

6,521

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

Factory Stores of America — Graceville

9.10

%

1,937

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

Factory Stores of America — Lebanon

9.10

%

1,628

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

Factory Stores of America — Nebraska City

9.10

%

1,529

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

Factory Stores of America — Story City

9.10

%

1,891

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

Forest Mall

6.20

%

17,000

(10)

1,316

10/10/12

Forest Plaza

7.78

%

15,101

(4)

1,414

11/01/09

Forum Shops at Caesars, The

4.78

%

541,935

34,564

12/01/10

Gateway Shopping Center

5.89

%

87,000

5,124

(2)

10/01/11

Gilroy Premium Outlets

6.99

%

64,144

(7)

6,236

07/11/08

(25)

Greenwood Park Mall — 1

7.00

%

27,329

(8)

3,273

01/01/09

Greenwood Park Mall — 2

6.76

%

55,331

(8)

4,831

01/01/09

Henderson Square

6.94

%

15,063

1,270

07/01/11

Highland Lakes Center

6.20

%

15,670

(9)

1,213

10/10/12

Ingram Park Mall

6.99

%

79,499

(20)

6,724

08/11/11

Keystone at the Crossing

7.85

%

57,514

5,642

07/31/07

Kittery Premium Outlets

6.99

%

10,619

(7)

1,028

07/11/08

(25)

Knoxville Center

6.99

%

60,201

(20)

5,092

08/11/11

Lake View Plaza

7.78

%

20,073

(4)

1,880

11/01/09

Lakeline Mall

7.65

%

64,999

6,300

05/01/07

Lakeline Plaza

7.78

%

22,008

(4)

2,061

11/01/09

Lighthouse Place Premium Outlets

6.99

%

44,261

(7)

4,286

07/11/08

(25)

Lincoln Crossing

7.78

%

3,038

(4)


11/01/09

Longview Mall

6.20

%

31,814

(9)

2,462

10/10/12

MacGregor Village

9.10

%

6,775

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

Mall of Georgia

7.09

%

191,520

16,649

07/01/10

Markland Mall

6.20

%

22,509

(10)

1,742

10/10/12

Matteson Plaza

7.78

%

8,840

(4)


11/01/09

McCain Mall

9.38

%

22,148

(5)

2,721

05/01/07

Midland Park Mall

6.20

%

32,860

(10)

2,543

10/10/12

Montgomery Mall

5.17

%

92,508

6,307

05/11/14

(25)

Muncie Plaza

7.78

%

7,643

(4)


11/01/09


Northfield Square

6.05

%

30,382

2,485

02/11/14

Northlake Mall

6.99

%

69,450

(20)

5,874

08/11/11

North Ridge Shopping Center

9.10

%

8,275

(6)


03/10/13

(25)

Oxford Valley Mall

6.76

%

79,924

7,801

01/10/11

Palm Beach Mall

6.20

%

52,567

4,068

10/10/12

Penn Square Mall

7.03

%

68,258

6,003

03/01/09

(25)

Plaza Carolina — Fixed

5.10

%

94,714

7,085

05/09/09

Plaza Carolina — Variable Capped

6.22%

(29)

95,744

7,895

05/09/09

(3)

Plaza Carolina — Variable Floating

6.22%

(1)

57,445

4,737

05/09/09

(3)

Port Charlotte Town Center

7.98

%

52,007

4,680

12/11/10

(25)

Regency Plaza

7.78

%

4,143

(4)


11/01/09

Richmond Towne Square

6.20

%

46,156

(10)

3,572

10/10/12

SB Trolley Square Holding

9.03

%

28,408

2,880

08/01/10

St. Charles Towne Plaza

7.78

%

26,518

(4)

2,483

11/01/09

Stanford Shopping Center

3.60%

(11)

220,000

7,920

(2)

09/11/08

Sunland Park Mall

8.63%

(13)

35,315

3,768

01/01/26

Tacoma Mall

7.00

%

126,763

10,778

10/01/11

Towne East Square — 1

7.00

%

44,339

4,711

01/01/09

Towne East Square — 2

6.81

%

22,330

1,958

01/01/09

Towne West Square

6.99

%

52,039

(20)

4,402

08/11/11

University Park Mall

7.43

%

56,825

4,958

10/01/07

Upper Valley Mall

5.89

%

47,904

2,822

(2)

07/01/14

Valle Vista Mall

9.38

%

29,335

(5)

3,598

05/01/07

Washington Square

5.94

%

30,693

1,823

(2)

07/01/14

Waterloo Premium Outlets

6.99

%

35,649

(7)

3,452

07/11/08

(25)

West Ridge Mall

5.89

%

68,711

4,047

(2)

07/01/14

West Ridge Plaza

7.78

%

5,342

(4)


11/01/09

White Oaks Mall

5.54

%

50,000

2,768

(2)

11/01/16

White Oaks Plaza

7.78

%

16,298

(4)

1,526

11/01/09

Wolfchase Galleria

7.80

%

70,716

6,911

06/30/07

Woodland Hills Mall

7.00

%

81,587

7,185

01/01/09

(25)

Total Consolidated Secured Indebtedness

$

4,405,024


Unsecured Indebtedness:

Simon Property Group, LP:

Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility — USD

5.70%

(15)

$

—

$

—

(2)

01/11/11

(3)

Revolving Credit Facility — Yen Currency

0.85%

(15)

14,673


(2)

01/11/11

(3)

Revolving Credit Facility — Euro Currency

4.01%

(15)

290,459

11,643

(2)

01/11/11

(3)

Medium Term Notes — 2

7.13

%

180,000

12,825

(14)

09/20/07

Unsecured Notes — 2B

7.00

%

150,000

10,500

(14)

07/15/09

Unsecured Notes — 4C

7.38

%

200,000

14,750

(14)

06/15/18

Unsecured Notes — 5B

7.13

%

300,000

21,375

(14)

02/09/09

Unsecured Notes — 6B

7.75

%

200,000

15,500

(14)

01/20/11

Unsecured Notes — 7

6.38

%

750,000

47,813

(14)

11/15/07

Unsecured Notes — 8A

6.35

%

350,000

22,225

(14)

08/28/12

Unsecured Notes — 8B

5.38

%

150,000

8,063

(14)

08/28/08

Unsecured Notes — 9A

4.88

%

300,000

14,625

(14)

03/18/10

Unsecured Notes — 9B

5.45

%

200,000

10,900

(14)

03/15/13

Unsecured Notes — 10A

3.75

%

300,000

11,250

(14)

01/30/09

Unsecured Notes — 10B

4.90

%

200,000

9,800

(14)

01/30/14

Unsecured Notes — 11A

4.88

%

400,000

19,500

(14)

08/15/10

Unsecured Notes — 11B

5.63

%

500,000

28,125

(14)

08/15/14

Unsecured Notes — 12 A

5.10

%

600,000

30,600

(14)

06/15/15

Unsecured Notes — 12 B

4.60

%

400,000

18,400

(14)

06/15/10

Unsecured Notes — 13 A

5.38

%

500,000

26,875

(14)

06/01/11

Unsecured Notes — 13 B

5.75

%

600,000

34,500

(14)

12/01/15

Unsecured Notes — 14 A

5.75

%

400,000

23,000

(14)

05/01/12

Unsecured Notes — 14 B

6.10

%

400,000

24,400

(14)

05/01/16

Unsecured Notes — 15 A

5.60

%

600,000

33,600

(14)

09/01/11

Unsecured Notes — 15 B

5.88

%

500,000

29,375

(14)

03/01/17

Unsecured Notes — 16 A

5.00

%

600,000

30,000

(14)

03/01/12

Unsecured Notes — 16 B

5.25

%

650,000

34,125

(14)

12/01/16

Mandatory Par Put Remarketed Securities

7.00

%

200,000

14,000

(14)

06/15/08

(16)

9,935,132

The Retail Property Trust, subsidiary:

Unsecured Notes — CPI 4

7.18

%

75,000

5,385

(14)

09/01/13

Unsecured Notes — CPI 5

7.88

%

250,000

19,688

(14)

03/15/16

325,000

CPG Partners, LP, subsidiary:

Unsecured Notes — CPG 2

7.25

%

125,000

9,063

(14)

10/21/07

Unsecured Notes — CPG 3

3.50

%

100,000

3,500

(14)

03/15/09

Unsecured Notes — CPG 4

8.63

%

50,000

4,313

(14)

08/17/09

Unsecured Notes — CPG 5

8.25

%

150,000

12,375

(14)

02/01/11

Unsecured Notes — CPG 6

6.88

%

100,000

6,875

(14)

06/15/12

Unsecured Notes — CPG 7

6.00

%

150,000

9,000

(14)

01/15/13

675,000

Total Consolidated Unsecured Indebtedness

$

10,935,132

Total Consolidated Indebtedness at Face Amounts

$

15,340,156

Fair Value Interest Rate Swaps

(9,428)

(24)

Net Premium on Indebtedness

93,732

Net Discount on Indebtedness

(29,971

)

Total Consolidated Indebtedness

$

15,394,489

(19)


Joint Venture Indebtedness:

Secured Indebtedness:

Apple Blossom Mall

7.99

%

$

38,219

$

3,607

09/10/09

Arkadia Shopping Center

4.67

%  (31)

135,062

6,312

05/31/12

Atrium at Chestnut Hill

6.89

%

46,025

3,880

03/11/11

(25)

Auburn Mall

7.99

%

44,744

4,222

09/10/09

Aventura Mall

6.61

%

200,000

13,220

(2)

04/06/08

Avenues, The

5.29

%

75,588

5,325

04/01/13

Bay 1 (Torcy)

4.42

%  (31)

18,575


05/31/11

Bay 2 (Torcy)

4.42

%  (31)

69,290

3,065

06/30/11

Borek Shopping Center

5.93

%

16,396


02/06/12

Cape Cod Mall

6.80

%

93,520

7,821

03/11/11

Castleton Storage

7.37

%  (1)



(2)

07/31/09

(3)

Circle Centre Mall

5.02

%

75,624

5,165

04/11/13

Clay Terrace

5.08

%

115,000

5,842

(2)

10/01/15

Coconut Point

5.83

%

230,000

13,409

(2)

12/10/16

Coddingtown Mall

6.57

%  (1)

10,500


(2)

07/14/07

Crystal Mall

5.62

%

99,883

7,319

09/11/12

(25)

Dabrowka Shopping Center

6.04

%  (31)

4,978


07/03/14

Dadeland Mall

6.75

%

189,252

15,566

02/11/12

(25)

Domain Residential

6.47

%  (1)

21,673

1,403

(2)

03/03/11

(3)

Eastland Mall

5.79

%

168,000

9,734

(2)

06/01/16

Emerald Square Mall

5.13

%

137,050

9,479

03/01/13

Empire Mall

5.79

%

176,300

10,215

(2)

06/01/16

Fashion Centre Pentagon Retail

6.63

%

156,904

12,838

09/11/11

(25)

Fashion Centre Pentagon Office

6.07

%  (30)

40,000

2,429

(2)

07/09/09

(3)

Fashion Valley Mall — 1

6.49

%

158,720

13,218

10/11/08

(25)

Fashion Valley Mall — 2

6.58

%

29,124

1,915

(2)

10/11/08

(25)

Firewheel Residential

7.17

%  (1)



(2)

06/20/09

Florida Mall, The

7.55

%

254,151

22,766

12/10/10

Galleria Commerciali Italia — Facility A

4.77

%  (18)

328,859

21,411

12/22/11

(3)

Galleria Commerciali Italia — Facility B

4.87

%  (27)

324,885

22,565

12/22/11

Galleria Commerciali Italia — Cinisello

4.12

%

29,545

1,218

06/20/07

Gaitway Plaza

4.60

%

13,900

(17)


(2)

07/01/15

Granite Run Mall

5.83

%

121,189

8,622

06/01/16

Greendale Mall

6.00

%

45,000

2,699

(2)

10/01/16

Gotemba Premium Outlets — Fixed

2.00

%

8,398

(26)

1,176

10/25/14

Gotemba Premium Outlets — Variable

2.30

%  (12)

16,208

(26)

3,900

09/30/07

Gwinnett Place — 1

7.54

%

35,621

3,412

04/01/07

Gwinnett Place — 2

7.25

%

79,239

7,070

04/01/07

Hamilton Town Center

6.32

%  (1)

9,398


(2)

03/31/07

Highland Mall

6.83

%

66,744

5,634

07/11/11

Houston Galleria — 1

5.44

%

643,583

34,985

(2)

12/01/15

Houston Galleria — 2

5.44

%

177,417

9,644

(2)

12/01/15

Indian River Commons

5.21

%

9,645


(2)

11/01/14

Indian River Mall

5.21

%

65,355

3,408

(2)

11/01/14

King of Prussia Mall — 1

7.49

%

162,777

23,183

01/01/17

King of Prussia Mall — 2

8.53

%

11,314

1,685

01/01/17

Lehigh Valley Mall

5.88

%  (1)

150,000

8,823

(2)

08/09/10

(3)

Liberty Tree Mall

5.22

%

35,000

1,827

(2)

10/11/13

Mall at Rockingham

7.88

%

93,242

8,705

09/01/07

Mall at Chestnut Hill

8.45

%

14,172

1,396

02/02/10

Mall of New Hampshire — 1

6.96

%

96,202

8,345

10/01/08

(25)

Mall of New Hampshire — 2

8.53

%

7,989


10/01/08

Mesa Mall

5.79

%

87,250

5,055

(2)

06/01/16

Miami International Mall

5.35

%

97,198

6,533

10/01/13

Northshore Mall

5.03

%

210,000

10,553

(2)

03/11/14

(25)

Quaker Bridge Mall

7.03

%

21,627

2,407

04/01/16

Plaza at Buckland Hills, The

4.60

%

24,800

(17)

1,142

(2)

07/01/15

Ridgewood Court

4.60

%

14,650

(17)


(2)

07/01/15


Rinku Premium Outlets

2.34

%

31,276

(26)

4,857

10/25/14

Rushmore Mall

5.79

%

94,000

5,446

(2)

06/01/16

Sano Premium Outlets

2.39

%

46,214

(26)

7,371

05/31/16

St. Johns Town Center

5.06

%

170,000

8,602

(2)

03/11/15

St. John's Town Center Phase II

6.17

%  (1)

17,530

1,082

(2)

02/27/07

Seminole Towne Center

5.97

%  (22)

70,000

4,180

(2)

07/09/09

(3)

Shops at Sunset Place, The

6.07

%  (21)

90,867

7,250

05/09/09

(3)

Smith Haven Mall

5.16

%

180,000

9,283

(2)

03/01/16

Solomon Pond

3.97

%

113,206

6,505

08/01/13

Source, The

6.65

%

124,000

8,246

(2)

03/11/09

Southern Hills Mall

5.79

%

101,500

5,881

(2)

06/01/16

SouthPark Residential

6.72

%  (1)

20,319

1,366

(2)

10/31/08

Springfield Mall

6.42

%  (1)

76,500

4,913

(2)

12/01/10

(3)

Square One

6.73

%

90,038

7,380

03/11/12

Surprise Grand Vista

10.61

%

249,306

26,455

(2)

12/28/10

(3)

Toki Premium Outlets

1.22

%  (12)

21,248

(26)

3,283

10/30/09

Tosu Premium Outlets

2.60

%

10,617

(26)

1,852

08/24/13

Town Center at Cobb — 1

7.54

%

45,383

4,347

04/01/07

Town Center at Cobb — 2

7.25

%

60,303

5,381

04/01/07

Turzyn Shopping Center

6.32

%

24,162

1,528

06/06/14

University Storage

7.37

%  (1)

2,344


(2)

07/31/09

(3)

Valley Mall

5.83

%

47,184

3,357

06/01/16

Villabe A6 — Bel'Est

4.72

%  (31)

11,577


08/31/11

Village Park Plaza

4.60

%

29,850

(17)

1,374

(2)

07/01/15

West Town Corners

4.60

%

18,800

(17)


(2)

07/01/15

West Town Mall

6.90

%

76,000

5,244

(2)

05/01/08

(25)

Westchester, The

4.86

%

500,000

24,300

(2)

06/01/10

Whitehall Mall

6.77

%

13,072

1,282

11/01/08

Wilenska Station Shopping Center

5.12

%  (31)

39,524

2,025

08/31/11

Zakopianka Shopping Center

6.60

%

14,865


12/28/11

Total Joint Venture Secured Indebtedness at Face Amounts

$

7,996,332

Unsecured Indebtedness:

Galleria Commerciali Italia — Facility C

4.28

%  (28)

61,129

2,618

(2)

12/22/08

(3)

Total Joint Venture Unsecured Indebtedness

61,129

Net Premium on Indebtedness


Net Discount on Indebtedness

(1,606

)

Total Joint Venture Indebtedness

$

8,055,855

(23)

(Footnotes on following page)


(Footnotes for preceding pages)

(1)

Variable
rate loans based on LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 37.5 bps to 205 bps. LIBOR as of December 31, 2006 was 5.32%.

(2)

Requires
monthly payment of interest only.

(3)

Includes
applicable extension available at the Operating Partnership's option.

(4)

Loans
secured by these eleven Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.

(5)

Loans
secured by these three Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.

(6)

Loans
secured by these eleven Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.

(7)

Loans
secured by these four Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.

(8)

Loans
secured by these two Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.

(9)

Loans
secured by these three Properties are cross-collateralized.

(10)

Loans
secured by these four Properties are cross-collateralized.

(11)

Simultaneous
with the issuance of this loan, the Operating Partnership entered into a $70 million notional amount variable rate swap agreement which is designated as a hedge against
this loan. As of December 31, 2006, after including the impacts of this swap, the terms of the loan are effectively $150 million fixed at 3.60% and $70 million variable rate at 5.37%.

(12)

Variable
rate loans based on Yen LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 50 bps to 187.5 bps. Yen LIBOR as of December 31, 2006 was 0.4738%.

(13)

Lender
also participates in a percentage of certain gross receipts above a specified base. This threshold was met and additional interest was paid in 2006.

(14)

Requires
semi-annual payments of interest only.

(15)

$3,000,000
Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2006, the Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR + 0.375% and provides for different pricing based upon the Operating Partnership's
investment grade rating. As of December 31, 2006, $2.7 billion was available after outstanding borrowings and letter of credits.

(16)

The
MOPPRS have an actual maturity of June 15, 2028, but are subject to mandatory redemption on June 15, 2008.

(17)

Loans
secured by these five Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.

(18)

Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at 3 month Euribor + 1.05%. Debt consists of a Euros 269.0 million tranche of which Euros 249.1 million is drawn.

(19)

Our
share of consolidated indebtedness was $15,203,980.

(20)

Loans
secured by these four Properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.

(21)

LIBOR
+ 0.750%, with LIBOR capped at 7.500%.

(22)

LIBOR
+ 0.650%, with LIBOR capped at 8.500%.

(23)

Our
share of joint venture indebtedness was $3,472,228. Our share of indebtedness for joint ventures excludes our share of indebtedness of $79.5 million in joint venture entities in
which a non-controlling interest is held by Gallerie Commerciali Italia, an entity which we have a 49% interest.

(24)

Represents
the fair market value of interest rate swaps entered into by the Operating Partnership.

(25)

The
maturity date shown represents the Anticipated Maturity Date of the loan which is typically 10-20 years earlier than the stated Maturity Date of the loan. Should the loan not be
repaid at the Anticipated Repayment Date the applicable interest rate shall increase as specified in the loan agreement.

(26)

Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Yen equivalent 15,950.7 million

(27)

Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at 3 month Euribor + 1.15%. Debt consists of a Euros 255 million tranche which Euros 246.1 million is drawn.

(28)

Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at Euribor + 0.650%. Debt consists of a Euros 150 million tranche of which Euros 46.3 million is drawn.

(29)

LIBOR
+ 0.900%, with LIBOR capped at 8.250%.

(30)

LIBOR
+ 0.750%, with LIBOR capped at 8.250%.

(31)

Associated
with these loans are interest rate swap agreements with a total combined Euro 199.3 million notional amount that effectively fixed these loans at a combined 4.66%.


Mortgage and Other Debt on Portfolio Properties

and Investments in Real Estate

As of December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Changes in Mortgages and Other Indebtedness

The changes in mortgages and other indebtedness for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 are as follows:




Balance, Beginning of Year

$

14,106,117

$

14,586,393

$

10,266,388

Additions during period:

New Loan Originations

2,810,239

2,484,264

4,509,640

Loans assumed in acquisitions and consolidations

192,272

—

1,387,182

Net Premium/(Discount)

(5,031

)

(11,328

)

132,905

Deductions during period:

Loan Retirements

(1,619,148

)

(2,764,438

)

(1,652,022

)

Loans Related to Deconsolidations

—

(100,022

)

—

Amortization of Net (Premiums)/Discounts

(25,784

)

(33,710

)

(14,043

)

Scheduled Principal Amortization

(64,176

)

(55,042

)

(43,657

)

Balance, End of Year

$

15,394,489

$

14,106,117

$

14,586,393


Item 3. Legal Proceedings

On November 15, 2004, the Attorneys General of Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Connecticut filed complaints in their respective state Superior Courts
against us and our affiliate, SPGGC, Inc., alleging that the sale of co-branded, bank-issued gift cards sold in certain Properties violated gift certificate statutes and
consumer protection laws in those states. Each of these suits seeks injunctive relief, unspecified civil penalties and disgorgement of any fees determined to be improperly charged to consumers. We
filed our own actions for declaratory judgment actions in Federal district courts in each of the three states.

With
respect to the New Hampshire litigation, on August 1, 2006, the Federal district court in New Hampshire granted our motion for summary judgment and held that the gift card
program that has been in existence since September 1, 2005 is a banking product and state law regulation is preempted by Federal banking laws. However, the Attorney General's appeal of this
judgment in our favor in Federal district court in New Hampshire is pending. In February 2007, we entered into a voluntary, no-fault settlement agreement regarding the elements of
the New Hampshire action which related to the program that existed before September 1, 2005. This settlement did not have a significant impact on the results of our operations.

In
addition, we are a defendant in three other proceedings relating to the gift card program:

Betty Benson and Andrea Nay-Richardson vs. Simon Property
Group, Inc., and Simon Property Group, L.P., Superior Court of Cobb County, State of Georgia, Case No.: 04-1-9617-42, filed December 9,

;

Christopher Lonner vs. Simon Property Group, Inc., Supreme Court of the State of NY, County of Westchester, Case No.: 04-2246, filed
February 18, 2004

; and

Aliza Goldman, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated vs. Simon Property Group, Inc., Supreme Court of the State
of New York, County of Nassau, filed February 7, 2005

. Each of these proceedings has been brought as a purported class action and alleges violation of state consumer protection
laws, state abandoned property and contract laws or state statutes regarding gift certificates or gift cards and seeks a variety of remedies including unspecified damages and injunctive relief.

We
believe that we have viable defenses under both state and federal laws to the pending gift card actions. Although it is not possible to provide any assurance of the ultimate outcome
of any of these pending actions, management does not believe that an adverse outcome would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow.

As
previously disclosed, we were a defendant in a suit brought against us by a partner in a partnership in which we previously held ownership in, Mall of America Associates ("MOAA").
Effective November 2, 2006, all parties
agreed to settle the lawsuit and all claims with no settlement payment due by either party. We had most currently been a beneficial interest holder in the operations of MOAA which entitled us the
right to receive cash flow distributions and capital transaction proceeds, or approximately a 25% interest in the underlying operations. Concurrently with the settlement of the litigation, the Simon
family partner in MOAA sold its entire interest in MOAA. We received $102.2 million of capital transaction proceeds related to this transaction, terminating our beneficial interests, which
resulted in a gain of $86.5 million.

We
are involved in various other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We believe that such routine litigation, claims and administrative proceedings will
not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.


Part II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SPG". The quarterly price range on the NYSE for the shares and the distributions declared
per share for each quarter in the last two fiscal years are shown below:

High

Low

Close

Declared

Distribution



st

Quarter

$

88.48

$

76.21

$

84.14

$

0.76


nd

Quarter

84.88

76.14

82.94

0.76


rd

Quarter

92.35

81.19

90.62

0.76


th

Quarter

104.08

89.75

101.29

0.76



st

Quarter

$

65.60

$

58.29

$

60.58

$

0.70


nd

Quarter

74.06

59.29

72.49

0.70


rd

Quarter

80.97

70.52

74.12

0.70


th

Quarter

79.99

65.75

76.63

0.70

There is no established public trading market for Simon Property's Class B common stock or Class C common stock. Distributions per
share of the Class B and Class C common stock are identical to the common stock.

Holders

The number of holders of record of common stock outstanding was 2,207 as of December 31, 2006. The Class B common stock is held entirely by a voting
trust to which Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon and certain of their affiliates are parties and is exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into shares of common stock, and
the Class C common stock is held entirely by NID Corporation, the successor corporation of Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation, and is also exchangeable on a
one-for-one basis into shares of common stock.

Distributions

Simon Property qualifies as a REIT under the Code. We are required to pay a minimum level of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our dividends and limited
partner distributions typically exceed our net income generated in any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a "non-cash" expense. Our future dividends and the
distributions of the Operating Partnership will be determined by the Board based on actual results of operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, and what may be
required to maintain our status as a REIT. The Board declared and we paid a common stock dividend of $0.76 per share in the fourth quarter of 2006.

Simon
Property offers an Automatic Dividend Reinvestment Plan for its common shares that allows stockholders, at their election, to acquire additional shares by automatically
reinvesting cash dividends. Shares are acquired pursuant to the plan at a price equal to the prevailing market price of such shares, without payment of any brokerage commission or service charge.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

During the fourth quarter of 2006, we issued 8,000,000 shares of Series K Variable Rate Redeemable Preferred Stock (Series K Preferred Stock) to a
single institutional investor for cash proceeds in the amount of $200.0 million. We used the proceeds to fund the redemption of the Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. The
Series K Preferred Stock was not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in reliance upon the exemption contained in Section 4(2) regarding private transactions.


Issuances Under Equity Compensation Plans

For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Item 12 to this report.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

On May 11, 2006, the Board authorized us to repurchase up to 6,000,000 shares of our common stock subject to a maximum aggregate purchase price of
$250 million over the next twelve months as market conditions warrant. We may repurchase the shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There were no purchases under
this program during the fourth quarter of 2006.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Selected Financial Data section of the 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders filed
as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations section of Simon Property's 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.

Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations section of Simon Property's 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources — Market Risk," filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this
Form 10-K.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements contained in Item 15.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.

We carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with
participation of
management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period
covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that evaluation, our management, including the chief executive officer
and chief financial officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2006.

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.

Our management's report on internal control
over financial
reporting is set forth in our 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders as the last page of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, filed as Exhibit 13.1
to this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.

There was no change in our internal control over financial
reporting (as
defined in Rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2006 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information

None.


Part III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Simon Property's definitive Proxy Statement for its 2007 annual meeting of
stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and the information included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrants" in Part I hereof.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Simon Property's definitive Proxy Statement for its 2007 annual meeting of
stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Simon Property's definitive Proxy Statement for its 2007 annual meeting of
stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Simon Property's definitive Proxy Statement for its 2007 annual meeting of
stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Simon Property's definitive Proxy Statement for its 2007 annual meeting of
stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.


Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(1)

Consolidated Financial Statements

Simon
Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' consolidated financial statements and independent registered public accounting firm's reports are included in our 2006 Annual Report
to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.

Page No.

(2)

Financial Statement Schedule

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Schedule III — Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation


Notes to Schedule III


(3)

Exhibits

The Exhibit Index attached hereto is hereby incorporated by reference to this Item.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.

By

/s/

DAVID SIMON

David Simon

Chief Executive Officer

February 28, 2007

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Signature

Capacity

Date

/s/

DAVID SIMON

David Simon

Chief Executive Officer

and Director (Principal Executive Officer)

February 28, 2007

/s/

HERBERT SIMON

Herbert Simon

Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors

February 28, 2007

/s/

MELVIN SIMON

Melvin Simon

Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors

February 28, 2007

/s/

RICHARD S. SOKOLOV

Richard S. Sokolov

President, Chief Operating Officer and Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

BIRCH BAYH

Birch Bayh

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

MELVYN E. BERGSTEIN

Melvyn E. Bergstein

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

LINDA WALKER BYNOE

Linda Walker Bynoe

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

PIETER S. VAN DEN BERG

Pieter S. van den Berg

Director

February 28, 2007


/s/

REUBEN S. LEIBOWITZ

Reuben S. Leibowitz

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

FREDRICK W. PETRI

Fredrick W. Petri

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

J. ALBERT SMITH, JR.

J. Albert Smith, Jr.

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

KAREN N. HORN

Karen N. Horn

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

M. DENISE DEBARTOLO YORK

M. Denise DeBartolo York

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

STEPHEN E. STERRETT

Stephen E. Sterrett

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

February 28, 2007

/s/

JOHN DAHL

John Dahl

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 28, 2007


Exhibits


Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 20, 2004, by and among Simon Property Group, Inc., Simon Property Group, L.P., Simon Acquisition I, LLC, Simon Acquisition II, LLC, Chelsea Property Group, Inc., and CPG
Partners, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 22, 2004).

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Form 8-K filed by the Registrant on October 9, 1998).

3.2

Restated By-laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002).

3.3

Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 7.00% Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant's Form 10-Q filed on
November 15, 1999).

3.3a

Certificate of Correction Filed to Correct Certain Errors in Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 7.00% Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.1a of the Registrant's Form 10-Q filed on November 15, 1999).

3.4

Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 8.00% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Registrant's Form 10-Q filed on
November 15, 1999).

3.4a

Certificate of Correction Filed to Correct Certain Errors in Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 8.00% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.2a of the Registrant's Form 10-Q filed on November 15, 1999).

3.6

Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 7.89% Series G Cumulative Step-Up Premium Rate Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registration Statement
on Form S-4 filed by the Registrant on May 9, 2001 (Reg. No. 333-60526)).

3.7

Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form
8-K filed October 20, 2004).

3.8

Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 8


/


% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the
Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 20, 2004).

9.1

Second Amended and Restated Voting Trust Agreement, Voting Agreement and Proxy dated as of March 1, 2004 between Melvin Simon & Associates, Inc., on the one hand and Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, and David Simon on the
other hand (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9.1 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 10, 2004).

9.2

Voting Trust Agreement, Voting Agreement and Proxy dated as of March 1, 2004 between David Simon, Melvin Simon and Herbert Simon (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9.2 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
filed on May 10, 2004).

10.1

Credit Agreement, dated as of October 12, 2004, among Simon Property Group, L.P., the Lenders named therein, and the Co-Agents named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q filed on November 8, 2004).

10.2

$3,000,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2005, among Simon Property Group, L.P., the Institutions named therein as Lenders and the Institutions named therein as Co-Agents (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 99.2 of Simon Property Group, L.P.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 20, 2005).

10.3

Form of the Indemnity Agreement between the Registrant and its directors and officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Form S-4 filed by the Registrant on August 13, 1998 (Reg. No. 333-61399)
).

10.4

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 24, 1998, by and among the Registrant and the persons named therein. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Form 8-K filed by the Registrant on October 9,
1998).

10.5

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 27, 1999 by and among the Registrant and the persons named therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed March 24, 2004
(Reg. No. 333-113884)).

10.6

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997, by and between O'Connor Retail Partners, L.P. and Simon DeBartolo Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Registration Statement on Form
S-3 filed December 7, 2001 (Reg. No. 333-74722)).

10.7*

Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated October 5, 2006).

10.8*

Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to this same Exhibit number of the 2004 Form 10-K filed by the
Registrant).

10.9*

Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan.


10.10*

Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to this same Exhibit number of the 2004 Form 10-K filed by the
Registrant).

10.11*

Employment Agreement between Richard S. Sokolov, the Registrant, and Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P. Dated March 26, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the 2000 Form 10-K
filed by the Registrant).

10.12*

Description of Director and Executive Compensation Agreements.

10.16

Voting Agreement dated as of June 20, 2004 among the Registrant, Simon Property Group, L.P., and certain holders of shares of common stock of Chelsea Property Group, Inc. and/or common units of CPG Partners, L.P.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 22, 2004).

12.1

Statement regarding computation of ratios.

13.1

Selected Financial Data, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Financial Statements of the Registrant as contained in the Registrant's 2006 Annual Report to
Stockholders.

21.1

List of Subsidiaries of the Company.

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

31.1

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


Certification by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Represents
a management contract, or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Regulation S-K.


SCHEDULE III

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost (Note 3)

Cost Capitalized

Subsequent to Acquisition (Note 3)

Gross Amounts At Which

Carried At Close of Period

Name, Location

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Total (1)

Accumulated

Depreciation (2)

Date of

Construction

Regional Malls

Alton Square, Alton, IL

$

—

$


$

7,641

$

—

$

10,733

$


$

18,374

$

18,528

$

8,640

1993 (Note 4

)

Anderson Mall, Anderson, SC

28,635

1,712

15,227

1,363

9,753

3,075

24,980

28,055

11,301


Arsenal Mall, Watertown, MA

32,759

15,505

47,680

—

4,000

15,505

51,680

67,185

10,370

1999 (Note 4

)

Bangor Mall, Bangor, ME

22,038

5,478

59,740

—

4,953

5,478

64,693

70,171

10,574

2004 (Note 5

)

Barton Creek Square, Austin, TX

—

2,903

20,929

7,983

56,732

10,886

77,661

88,547

30,532


Battlefield Mall, Springfield, MO

97,839

3,919

27,231

3,225

59,011

7,144

86,242

93,386

36,191


Bay Park Square, Green Bay, WI

—

6,358

25,623

4,133

21,884

10,491

47,507

57,998

14,380


Bowie Town Center, Bowie, MD

—

2,710

65,044


4,995

2,945

70,039

72,984

15,244


Boynton Beach Mall, Boynton Beach, FL

—

22,240

78,804

4,636

22,671

26,876

101,475

128,351

26,972


Brea Mall, Brea, CA

—

39,500

209,202

—

19,297

39,500

228,499

267,999

53,969

1998 (Note 4

)

Broadway Square, Tyler, TX

—

11,470

32,431

—

12,750

11,470

45,181

56,651

15,683

1994 (Note 4

)

Brunswick Square, East Brunswick, NJ

85,659

8,436

55,838

—

25,583

8,436

81,421

89,857

25,371


Burlington Mall, Burlington, MA

—

46,600

303,618

—

51,960

46,600

355,578

402,178

74,600

1998 (Note 4

)

Castleton Square, Indianapolis, IN

—

26,250

98,287

7,434

37,437

33,684

135,724

169,408

39,877


Century III Mall, West Mifflin, PA

84,525

17,380

102,364


7,932

17,390

110,296

127,686

49,685


Charlottesville Fashion Square, Charlottesville, VA

—

—

54,738

—

12,549

—

67,287

67,287

18,336

1997 (Note 4

)

Chautauqua Mall, Lakewood, NY

—

3,257

9,641

—

15,918

3,257

25,559

28,816

9,125


Chesapeake Square, Chesapeake, VA

72,658

11,534

70,461

—

6,552

11,534

77,013

88,547

28,488


Cielo Vista Mall, El Paso, TX

47,433


14,447


41,903

1,475

56,350

57,825

24,626


College Mall, Bloomington, IN

43,340

1,003

16,245


35,821

1,725

52,066

53,791

20,919


Columbia Center, Kennewick, WA

—

18,285

66,580

—

15,334

18,285

81,914

100,199

22,503


Copley Place, Boston, MA

171,126


378,045

—

47,287


425,332

425,479

52,662

2002 (Note 4

)

Coral Square, Coral Springs, FL

85,740

13,556

93,630

—

3,594

13,556

97,224

110,780

35,736


Cordova Mall, Pensacola, FL

—

18,626

73,091

7,321

24,542

25,947

97,633

123,580

22,512

1998 (Note 4

)

Cottonwood Mall, Albuquerque, NM

—

10,122

69,958

—

1,721

10,122

71,679

81,801

26,618


Crossroads Mall, Omaha, NE

42,451


30,658


35,519

1,048

66,177

67,225

22,628

1994 (Note 4

)

Crystal River Mall, Crystal River, FL

15,341

5,661

20,241

—

5,024

5,661

25,265

30,926

7,647


DeSoto Square, Bradenton, FL

64,153

9,011

52,675

—

7,592

9,011

60,267

69,278

18,764


Edison Mall, Fort Myers, FL

—

11,529

107,350

—

22,400

11,529

129,750

141,279

31,249

1997 (Note 4

)

Fashion Mall at Keystone, Indianapolis, IN

57,513

—

120,579

—

34,425

—

155,004

155,004

38,215

1997 (Note 4

)

Firewheel Town Center, Garland, TX

—

11,551

82,627

—

10,227

11,551

92,854

104,405

5,116


Forest Mall, Fond Du Lac, WI

17,000


4,491

—

8,082


12,573

13,301

6,030


Forum Shops at Caesars, The, Las Vegas, NV

541,935

—

276,378

—

191,380

—

467,758

467,758

76,070



SCHEDULE III

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost (Note 3)

Cost Capitalized

Subsequent to Acquisition (Note 3)

Gross Amounts At Which

Carried At Close of Period

Name, Location

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Total (1)

Accumulated

Depreciation (2)

Date of

Construction

Great Lakes Mall, Mentor, OH

—

12,302

100,362

—

14,777

12,302

115,139

127,441

34,062


Greenwood Park Mall, Greenwood, IN

82,660

2,423

23,445

5,275

78,371

7,698

101,816

109,514

36,796


Gulf View Square, Port Richey, FL

—

13,690

39,991

2,023

18,516

15,713

58,507

74,220

18,331


Haywood Mall, Greenville, SC

—

11,585

133,893


18,093

11,591

151,986

163,577

45,600

1998 (Note 4

)

Independence Center, Independence, MO

—

5,042

45,798

—

28,624

5,042

74,422

79,464

24,876

1994 (Note 4

)

Ingram Park Mall, San Antonio, TX

79,499


17,163


17,617


34,780

35,682

17,276


Irving Mall, Irving, TX

—

6,737

17,479

2,533

35,362

9,270

52,841

62,111

28,006


Jefferson Valley Mall, Yorktown Heights, NY

—

4,868

30,304

—

22,380

4,868

52,684

57,552

21,656


Knoxville Center, Knoxville, TN

60,201

5,006

21,617

3,712

34,229

8,718

55,846

64,564

23,340


La Plaza Mall, McAllen, TX

—

1,375

9,828

6,569

34,117

7,944

43,945

51,889

16,827


Lafayette Square, Indianapolis, IN

—

14,251

54,589


12,431

14,301

67,020

81,321

34,582


Laguna Hills Mall, Laguna Hills, CA

—

27,928

55,446

—

7,575

27,928

63,021

90,949

17,719

1997 (Note 4

)

Lakeline Mall, Austin, TX

64,999

10,088

81,568


2,883

10,102

84,451

94,553

27,834


Lenox Square, Atlanta, GA

—

38,213

492,411

—

40,709

38,213

533,120

571,333

121,013

1998 (Note 4

)

Lima Mall, Lima, OH

—

7,910

35,338

—

8,854

7,910

44,192

52,102

15,760


Lincolnwood Town Center, Lincolnwood, IL

—

7,907

63,480


6,759

7,935

70,239

78,174

29,933


Livingston Mall, Livingston, NJ

—

30,200

105,250

—

10,925

30,200

116,175

146,375

28,696

1998 (Note 4

)

Longview Mall, Longview, TX

31,814


3,567


7,120


10,687

11,070

4,796


Mall of Georgia, Mill Creek, GA

191,520

47,492

359,042

—


47,492

359,501

406,993

67,521

1999 (Note 5

)

Maplewood Mall, Minneapolis, MN

—

17,119

80,758

—

9,779

17,119

90,537

107,656

14,117

2002 (Note 4

)

Markland Mall, Kokomo, IN

22,509

—

7,568

—

7,891

—

15,459

15,459

7,435


McCain Mall, N. Little Rock, AR

22,148

—

9,515

—

10,255

—

19,770

19,770

13,902


Melbourne Square, Melbourne, FL

—

15,762

55,891

4,160

23,855

19,922

79,746

99,668

20,272


Menlo Park Mall, Edison, NJ

—

65,684

223,252

—

27,208

65,684

250,460

316,144

67,146

1997 (Note 4

)

Midland Park Mall, Midland, TX

32,860


9,213

—

10,467


19,680

20,367

10,975


Miller Hill Mall, Duluth, MN

—

2,537

18,092

—

21,927

2,537

40,019

42,556

21,647


Montgomery Mall, Montgomeryville, PA

92,508

27,105

86,915

—

2,889

27,105

89,804

116,909

15,896

2004 (Note 5

)

Muncie Mall, Muncie, IN

—


5,776


26,344


32,120

32,344

12,938


Nanuet Mall, Nanuet, NY

—

27,310

162,993

—

3,064

27,310

166,057

193,367

60,797

1998 (Note 4

)

North East Mall, Hurst, TX

—


12,966

19,010

142,405

19,138

155,371

174,509

47,806


Northfield Square Mall, Bourbonnais, IL

30,382


53,396

—



54,275

54,637

27,133

2004 (Note 5

)

Northgate Mall, Seattle, WA

—

24,392

115,992

—

56,894

24,392

172,886

197,278

38,071


Northlake Mall, Atlanta, GA

69,450

33,400

98,035

—

3,817

33,400

101,852

135,252

34,147

1998 (Note 4

)

Northwoods Mall, Peoria, IL

—

1,185

12,779

2,451

35,952

3,636

48,731

52,367

23,230


Oak Court Mall, Memphis, TN

—

15,673

57,304

—

7,940

15,673

65,244

80,917

18,163

1997 (Note 4

)

Ocean County Mall, Toms River, NJ

—

20,404

124,945

—

21,436

20,404

146,381

166,785

33,055

1998 (Note 4

)


SCHEDULE III

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost (Note 3)

Cost Capitalized

Subsequent to Acquisition (Note 3)

Gross Amounts At Which

Carried At Close of Period

Name, Location

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Total (1)

Accumulated

Depreciation (2)

Date of

Construction

Orange Park Mall, Orange Park, FL

—

12,998

65,121

—

36,972

12,998

102,093

115,091

30,684

1994 (Note 4

)

Orland Square, Orland Park, IL

—

35,514

129,906

—

18,978

35,514

148,884

184,398

40,219

1997 (Note 4

)

Oxford Valley Mall, Langhorne, PA

79,924

24,544

100,287

—

3,637

24,544

103,924

128,468

34,884

2003 (Note 4

)

Paddock Mall, Ocala, FL

—

11,198

39,727

—

8,657

11,198

48,384

59,582

14,057


Palm Beach Mall, West Palm Beach, FL

52,567

11,962

112,437

—

35,228

11,962

147,665

159,627

63,467


Penn Square Mall, Oklahoma City, OK

68,258

2,043

155,958

—

24,824

2,043

180,782

182,825

37,112

2002 (Note 4

)

Pheasant Lane Mall, Nashua, NH

—

3,902

155,068


9,048

4,430

164,116

168,546

38,549

2004 (Note 5

)

Phipps Plaza, Atlanta, GA

—

19,200

210,610

—

18,565

19,200

229,175

248,375

54,330

1998 (Note 4

)

Plaza Carolina, Carolina, PR

247,903

15,493

279,560

—

2,285

15,493

281,845

297,338

25,486

2004 (Note 4

)

Port Charlotte Town Center, Port Charlotte, FL

52,007

5,471

58,570

—

13,802

5,471

72,372

77,843

23,149


Prien Lake Mall, Lake Charles, LA

—

1,842

2,813

3,091

38,428

4,933

41,241

46,174

15,262


Raleigh Springs Mall, Memphis, TN

—

9,137

28,604

—

12,369

9,137

40,973

50,110

23,705


Richardson Square Mall, Richardson, TX

—

4,532

6,329

1,268

11,212

5,800

17,541

23,341

11,326


Richmond Town Square, Richmond Heights, OH

46,156

2,600

12,112

—

60,930

2,600

73,042

75,642

29,417


River Oaks Center, Calumet City, IL

—

30,884

101,224

—

8,507

30,884

109,731

140,615

28,895

1997 (Note 4

)

Rockaway Townsquare, Rockaway, NJ

—

44,116

212,257


15,575

44,143

227,832

271,975

52,983

1998 (Note 4

)

Rolling Oaks Mall, San Antonio, TX

—

2,141

38,609

—

12,927

2,141

51,536

53,677

22,608


Roosevelt Field, Garden City, NY

—

164,058

702,008

2,117

34,460

166,175

736,468

902,643

170,033

1998 (Note 4

)

Ross Park Mall, Pittsburgh, PA

—

23,541

90,203

—

32,153

23,541

122,356

145,897

42,901


Santa Rosa Plaza, Santa Rosa, CA

—

10,400

87,864

—

7,640

10,400

95,504

105,904

23,156

1998 (Note 4

)

Shops at Mission Viejo, The, Mission Viejo, CA

—

9,139

54,445

7,491

144,257

16,630

198,702

215,332

59,931


South Hills Village, Pittsburgh, PA

—

23,445

125,840

—

14,010

23,445

139,850

163,295

36,241

1997 (Note 4

)

South Shore Plaza, Braintree, MA

—

101,200

301,495

—

31,625

101,200

333,120

434,320

74,602

1998 (Note 4

)

Southern Park Mall, Boardman, OH

—

16,982

77,767


21,701

17,079

99,468

116,547

31,938


SouthPark, Charlotte, NC

—

32,141

188,004


155,864

32,241

343,868

376,109

47,155

2002 (Note 4

)

St. Charles Towne Center, Waldorf, MD

—

7,710

52,934

1,180

14,875

8,890

67,809

76,699

31,386


Stanford Shopping Center, Palo Alto, CA

220,000

—

339,537

—

2,679

—

342,216

342,216

38,308

2003 (Note 4

)

Summit Mall, Akron, OH

—

15,374

51,137

—

18,762

15,374

69,899

85,273

22,127


Sunland Park Mall, El Paso, TX

35,315

2,896

28,900

—

6,286

2,896

35,186

38,082

17,569


Tacoma Mall, Tacoma, WA

126,763

37,803

125,826

—

28,390

37,803

154,216

192,019

44,934


Tippecanoe Mall, Lafayette, IN

—

2,897

8,439

5,517

42,856

8,414

51,295

59,709

27,966


Town Center at Aurora, Aurora, CO

—

9,959

56,766


55,528

9,965

112,294

122,259

24,185

1998 (Note 4

)

Town Center at Boca Raton, Boca Raton, FL

—

64,200

307,279

—

92,668

64,200

399,947

464,147

92,101

1998 (Note 4

)

Towne East Square, Wichita, KS

66,669

8,525

18,479

1,429

29,574

9,954

48,053

58,007

25,101



SCHEDULE III

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost (Note 3)

Cost Capitalized

Subsequent to Acquisition (Note 3)

Gross Amounts At Which

Carried At Close of Period

Name, Location

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Total (1)

Accumulated

Depreciation (2)

Date of

Construction

Towne West Square, Wichita, KS

52,039


21,203


8,012

1,033

29,215

30,248

15,610


Treasure Coast Square, Jensen Beach, FL

—

11,124

72,990

3,067

27,314

14,191

100,304

114,495

28,695


Tyrone Square, St. Petersburg, FL

—

15,638

120,962

—

25,319

15,638

146,281

161,919

42,275


University Mall, Little Rock, AR

—


17,411

—

3,227


20,638

20,761

12,619


University Mall, Pensacola, FL

—

4,256

26,657

—

4,026

4,256

30,683

34,939

11,896


University Park Mall, Mishawaka, IN

56,825

15,105

61,100

—

23,722

15,105

84,822

99,927

75,952

1996 (Note 4

)

Upper Valley Mall, Springfield, OH

47,904

8,421

38,745

—

3,693

8,421

42,438

50,859

13,343


Valle Vista Mall, Harlingen, TX

29,335

1,398

17,159


13,345

1,770

30,504

32,274

14,474


Virginia Center Commons, Glen Allen, VA

—

9,764

50,547

4,149

7,944

13,913

58,491

72,404

20,275


Walt Whitman Mall, Huntington Station, NY

—

51,700

111,258

3,789

36,443

55,489

147,701

203,190

46,484

1998 (Note 4

)

Washington Square, Indianapolis, IN

30,693

16,800

36,495


27,233

17,262

63,728

80,990

25,982


West Ridge Mall, Topeka, KS

68,711

5,453

34,132


7,387

5,650

41,519

47,169

18,890


Westminster Mall, Westminster, CA

—

43,464

84,709

—

17,362

43,464

102,071

145,535

24,684

1998 (Note 4

)

White Oaks Mall, Springfield, IL

50,000

3,024

35,692

2,413

33,189

5,437

68,881

74,318

23,218


Wolfchase Galleria, Memphis, TN

70,716

16,274

128,276

—

7,973

16,274

136,249

152,523

35,316

2002 (Note 4

)

Woodland Hills Mall, Tulsa, OK

81,587

34,211

187,123

—

3,081

34,211

190,204

224,415

32,076

2004 (Note 5

)

Premium Outlet Centers

Albertville Premium Outlets, Albertville, MN

—

3,900

97,059

—

1,922

3,900

98,981

102,881

11,222

2004 (Note 4

)

Allen Premium Outlets, Allen, TX

—

13,855

43,687


18,884

13,952

62,571

76,523

7,293

2004 (Note 4

)

Aurora Farms Premium Outlets, Aurora, OH

—

2,370

24,326

—

1,676

2,370

26,002

28,372

7,113

2004 (Note 4

)

Camarillo Premium Outlets, Camarillo, CA

—

16,670

224,721

—

2,108

16,670

226,829

243,499

20,356

2004 (Note 4

)

Carlsbad Premium Outlets, Carlsbad, CA

—

12,890

184,990



12,986

185,673

198,659

16,781

2004 (Note 4

)

Carolina Premium Outlets, Smithfield, NC

20,231

3,170

59,863

—

1,049

3,170

60,912

64,082

8,798

2004 (Note 4

)

Chicago Premium Outlets, Aurora, IL

—


118,005

7,903

15,073

8,562

133,078

141,640

13,067

2004 (Note 4

)

Clinton Crossings Premium Outlets, Clinton, CT

—

2,060

107,557


1,218

2,092

108,775

110,867

11,797

2004 (Note 4

)

Columbia Gorge Premium Outlets, Troutdale, OR

—

7,900

16,492

—


7,900

17,281

25,181

4,143

2004 (Note 4

)

Desert Hills Premium Outlets, Cabazon, CA

—

3,440

338,679

—


3,440

338,892

342,332

26,998

2004 (Note 4

)

Edinburgh Premium Outlets, Edinburgh, IN

—

2,857

47,309

—

9,949

2,857

57,258

60,115

7,533

2004 (Note 4

)

Folsom Premium Outlets, Folsom, CA

—

9,060

50,281

—

1,666

9,060

51,947

61,007

8,254

2004 (Note 4

)

Gilroy Premium Outlets, Gilroy, CA

64,144

9,630

194,122

—

2,095

9,630

196,217

205,847

20,762

2004 (Note 4

)

Jackson Premium Outlets, Jackson, NJ

—

6,413

104,013


2,084

6,416

106,097

112,513

8,423

2004 (Note 4

)

Johnson Creek Premium Outlets, Johnson Creek, WI

—

2,800

39,546

—

2,217

2,800

41,763

44,563

3,489

2004 (Note 4

)

Kittery Premium Outlets, Kittery, ME

10,619


60,522

—



61,115

62,072

5,947

2004 (Note 4

)

Las Vegas Outlet Center, Las Vegas, NV

—

13,085

160,777

—

1,367

13,085

162,144

175,229

10,770

2004 (Note 4

)

Las Vegas Premium Outlets, Las Vegas, NV

—

25,435

134,973

—

21,228

25,435

156,201

181,636

14,205

2004 (Note 4

)


SCHEDULE III

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost (Note 3)

Cost Capitalized

Subsequent to Acquisition (Note 3)

Gross Amounts At Which

Carried At Close of Period

Name, Location

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Total (1)

Accumulated

Depreciation (2)

Date of

Construction

Leesburg Corner Premium Outlets, Leesburg, VA

—

7,190

162,023

—

2,402

7,190

164,425

171,615

18,136

2004 (Note 4

)

Liberty Village Premium Outlets, Flemington, NJ

—

5,670

28,904

—

1,121

5,670

30,025

35,695

5,561

2004 (Note 4

)

Lighthouse Place Premium Outlets, Michigan City, IN

44,261

6,630

94,138

—

1,868

6,630

96,006

102,636

14,236

2004 (Note 4

)

Napa Premium Outlets, Napa, CA

—

11,400

45,023

—


11,400

45,666

57,066

5,151

2004 (Note 4

)

North Georgia Premium Outlets, Dawsonville, GA

—

4,300

132,325

—

1,482

4,300

133,807

138,107

15,177

2004 (Note 4

)

Orlando Premium Outlets, Orlando, FL

—

14,040

304,410

15,855

1,014

29,895

305,424

335,319

22,829

2004 (Note 4

)

Osage Beach Premium Outlets, Osage Beach, MO

—

9,460

85,804


1,470

9,463

87,274

96,737

11,115

2004 (Note 4

)

Petaluma Village Premium Outlets, Petaluma, CA

—

13,322

14,067

—

1,582

13,322

15,649

28,971

3,830

2004 (Note 4

)

Rio Grande Valley Premium Outlets, Mercedes, TX

—

12,693

41,547

—

—

12,693

41,547

54,240



Round Rock Premium Outlets, Round Rock, TX

—

22,911

82,252

—

—

22,911

82,252

105,163

1,043


Seattle Premium Outlets, Seattle, WA

—

13,557

103,722

—

2,765

13,557

106,487

120,044

7,257

2004 (Note 4

)

St. Augustine Premium Outlets, St. Augustine, FL

—

6,090

57,670


4,562

6,092

62,232

68,324

7,766

2004 (Note 4

)

The Crossings Premium Outlets, Tannersville, PA

56,707

7,720

172,931

—

7,381

7,720

180,312

188,032

15,661

2004 (Note 4

)

Vacaville Premium Outlets, Vacaville, CA

—

9,420

84,856

—

1,875

9,420

86,731

96,151

12,436

2004 (Note 4

)

Waikele Premium Outlets, Waipahu, HI

—

22,630

77,316

—


22,630

78,290

100,920

8,782

2004 (Note 4

)

Waterloo Premium Outlets, Waterloo, NY

35,649

3,230

75,277

—

4,963

3,230

80,240

83,470

10,803

2004 (Note 4

)

Woodbury Common Premium Outlets, Central Valley, NY

—

11,110

862,557

—

3,154

11,110

865,711

876,821

67,497

2004 (Note 4

)

Wrentham Village Premium Outlets, Wrentham, MA

—

4,900

282,031

—

2,399

4,900

284,430

289,330

26,646

2004 (Note 4

)

Community/Lifestyle Centers

Arboretum at Great Hills, Austin, TX

—

7,640

36,774


7,497

7,711

44,271

51,982

10,612

1998 (Note 4

)

Bloomingdale Court, Bloomingdale, IL

27,532

8,748

26,184

—

9,152

8,748

35,336

44,084

12,988


Boardman Plaza, Youngstown, OH

23,598

7,265

22,007

—

12,525

7,265

34,532

41,797

12,120


Brightwood Plaza, Indianapolis, IN

—



—







Celina Plaza, El Paso, TX

—



—




1,063



Charles Towne Square, Charleston, SC

—

—

1,768


10,636


12,404

12,774

4,835


Chesapeake Center, Chesapeake, VA

—

5,352

12,279

—


5,352

12,637

17,989

3,776



SCHEDULE III

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost (Note 3)

Cost Capitalized

Subsequent to Acquisition (Note 3)

Gross Amounts At Which

Carried At Close of Period

Name, Location

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Total (1)

Accumulated

Depreciation (2)

Date of

Construction

Countryside Plaza, Countryside, IL

—


8,507

2,554

8,167

2,886

16,674

19,560

5,591


Dare Centre, Kill Devil Hills, NC

1,684

—

5,702

—


—

5,813

5,813


2004 (Note 4

)

DeKalb Plaza, King of Prussia, PA

3,301

1,955

3,405

—


1,955

4,303

6,258

1,122

2003 (Note 4

)

Eastland Plaza, Tulsa, OK

—


3,680

—



3,765

4,416

2,333


Forest Plaza, Rockford, IL

15,101

4,132

16,818


2,318

4,585

19,136

23,721

7,130


Gateway Shopping Centers, Austin, TX

87,000

24,549

81,437

—

7,084

24,549

88,521

113,070

10,160

2004 (Note 4

)

Great Lakes Plaza, Mentor, OH

—

1,028

2,025

—

3,643

1,028

5,668

6,696

2,413


Greenwood Plus, Greenwood, IN

—

1,131

1,792

—

3,735

1,131

5,527

6,658

2,308


Griffith Park Plaza, Griffith, IN

—

—

2,412

1,504


1,504

2,979

4,483

2,254


Henderson Square, King of Prussia, PA

15,063

4,223

15,124

—


4,223

15,256

19,479

1,863

2003 (Note 4

)

Highland Lakes Center, Orlando, FL

15,670

7,138

25,284

—

1,361

7,138

26,645

33,783

9,617


Ingram Plaza, San Antonio, TX

—


1,802




1,859

2,284

1,079


Keystone Shoppes, Indianapolis, IN

—

—

4,232

—


—

5,179

5,179

1,374

1997 (Note 4

)

Knoxville Commons, Knoxville, TN

—

3,731

5,345

—

1,738

3,731

7,083

10,814

3,906


Lake Plaza, Waukegan, IL

—

2,487

6,420

—


2,487

7,394

9,881

2,780


Lake View Plaza, Orland Park, IL

20,073

4,775

17,543

—

11,066

4,775

28,609

33,384

9,724


Lakeline Plaza, Austin, TX

22,008

5,822

30,875

—

7,140

5,822

38,015

43,837

10,899


Lima Center, Lima, OH

—

1,808

5,151

—

6,753

1,808

11,904

13,712

3,098


Lincoln Crossing, O'Fallon, IL

3,038


2,192

—



2,754

3,428



Lincoln Plaza, King of Prussia, PA

—

—

21,299

—


—

22,099

22,099

6,498

2003 (Note 4

)

MacGregor Village, Cary, NC

6,775


8,897

—



9,155

9,712


2004 (Note 4

)

Mall of Georgia Crossing, Mill Creek, GA

—

9,506

32,892

—


9,506

33,003

42,509

8,049

2004 (Note 5

)

Markland Plaza, Kokomo, IN

—



—

6,205


6,943

7,149

1,790


Martinsville Plaza, Martinsville, VA

—

—


—


—





Matteson Plaza, Matteson, IL

8,840

1,771

9,737

—

2,323

1,771

12,060

13,831

5,168


Muncie Plaza, Muncie, IN

7,643


10,509




11,172

11,526

3,184


New Castle Plaza, New Castle, IN

—


1,621

—

1,435


3,056

3,184

1,637


North Ridge Plaza, Joliet, IL

—

2,831

7,699

—

1,671

2,831

9,370

12,201

3,565


North Ridge Shopping Center, Raleigh, NC

8,275


12,838

—



13,186

13,648


2004 (Note 4

)

Northwood Plaza, Fort Wayne, IN

—


1,414

—

1,367


2,781

2,929

1,503


Park Plaza, Hopkinsville, KY

—


1,572

—



1,797

2,097

1,577


Regency Plaza, St. Charles, MO

4,143


4,963

—



5,470

6,086

1,925


Rockaway Convenience Center, Rockaway, NJ

—

5,149

26,435

—

6,297

5,149

32,732

37,881

5,131

1998 (Note 4

)

Rockaway Town Plaza, Rockaway, NJ

—

—

15,295

—

1,044

—

16,339

16,339



Shops at Arbor Walk, Austin, TX

—


42,546

—

—


42,546

43,476




SCHEDULE III

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost (Note 3)

Cost Capitalized

Subsequent to Acquisition (Note 3)

Gross Amounts At Which

Carried At Close of Period

Name, Location

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Land

Buildings and

Improvements

Total (1)

Accumulated

Depreciation (2)

Date of

Construction

Shops at North East Mall, The, Hurst, TX

—

12,541

28,177


5,316

12,943

33,493

46,436

10,832


St. Charles Towne Plaza, Waldorf, MD

26,518

8,377

18,993

—

2,300

8,377

21,293

29,670

8,264


Teal Plaza, Lafayette, IN

—



—

2,956


3,834

3,933

1,739


Terrace at the Florida Mall, Orlando, FL

—

2,150

7,623

—

4,050

2,150

11,673

13,823

2,884


Tippecanoe Plaza, Lafayette, IN

—

—



4,992


5,737

5,971

2,646


University Center, Mishawaka, IN

—

2,388

5,214

—

3,013

2,388

8,227

10,615

7,004


Washington Plaza, Indianapolis, IN

—


1,697

—



2,005

2,946

2,487


Waterford Lakes Town Center, Orlando, FL

—

8,679

72,836

—

12,807

8,679

85,643

94,322

24,347


West Ridge Plaza, Topeka, KS

5,342

1,376

4,560

—

1,570

1,376

6,130

7,506

2,399


White Oaks Plaza, Springfield, IL

16,298

3,169

14,267

—


3,169

15,211

18,380

5,585


Wolf Ranch, Georgetown, TX

—

22,118

51,509

—


22,118

52,000

74,118

2,811


Other Properties

Crossville Outlet Center, Crossville, TN

—


4,380

—



4,500

4,763


2004 (Note 4

)

Factory Merchants Branson, Branson, MO

—

1,383

19,637



1,384

20,319

21,703

1,870

2004 (Note 4

)

Factory Shoppes at Branson Meadows, Branson, MO

9,409

—

5,206

—


—

5,245

5,245


2004 (Note 4

)

Factory Stores of America — Boaz, AL

2,752

—


—


—




2004 (Note 4

)

Factory Stores of America — Georgetown, KY

6,521


3,610

—



3,635

3,783


2004 (Note 4

)

Factory Stores of America — Graceville, FL

1,937



—






2004 (Note 4

)

Factory Stores of America — Lebanon, MO

1,628



—






2004 (Note 4

)

Factory Stores of America — Nebraska City, NE

1,529



—

—





2004 (Note 4

)

Factory Stores of America — Story City, IA

1,891



—

—





2004 (Note 4

)

Factory Stores of North Bend, North Bend, WA

—

2,143

36,197

—


2,143

36,689

38,832

2,734

2004 (Note 4

)

Development Projects

Domain, The, Austin, TX

—

39,504

138,302

—

—

39,504

138,302

177,806

—


Palms Crossing, McAllen, TX

—

16,436

8,291

—

—

16,436

8,291

24,727

—


Pier Park, Panama City Beach, FL

—

28,432

20,407

—

—

28,432

20,407

48,839

—


Philadelphia Premium Outlets, Limerick, PA

—

16,549

17,053

—

—

16,549

17,053

33,602

—


Other pre-development costs

—

54,322

37,175

—

—

54,322

37,175

91,497

—

Other

—

5,172

67,915


2,184

5,837

70,099

75,936

4,452

$

4,349,247

2,499,253

$

16,707,854

$

151,952

$

3,285,240

$

2,651,205

$

19,993,094

$

22,644,299

$

4,479,198


Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Notes to Schedule III as of December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

(1)    Reconciliation of Real Estate Properties:

The changes in real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 are as follows:




Balance, beginning of year

$

21,551,247

$

21,082,582

$

14,834,443

Acquisitions and consolidations

402,095

294,654

5,753,600

Improvements

772,806

661,569

624,610

Disposals and de-consolidations

(81,849

)

(487,558

)

(112,071

)

Impairment write-down

—

—

(18,000

)

Balance, close of year

$

22,644,299

$

21,551,247

$

21,082,582

The
unaudited aggregate cost of real estate assets for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2006 was $14,516,444.

(2)    Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation:

The changes in accumulated depreciation and amortization for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 are as follows:




Balance, beginning of year

$

3,694,807

$

3,066,604

$

2,482,955

Acquisitions and consolidations (5)

64,818

2,627

76,121

Depreciation expense

767,726

768,028

545,882

Disposals

(48,153

)

(142,452

)

(38,354

)

Balance, close of year

$

4,479,198

$

3,694,807

$

3,066,604

Depreciation
of Simon Property's investment in buildings and improvements reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income is calculated over the
estimated original lives of the assets as follows:

•

Buildings
and Improvements — typically 10-40 years for the structure, 15 years for landscaping and parking lot, and
10 years for HVAC equipment.

•

Tenant
Allowances and Improvements — shorter of lease term or useful life.

(3)

Initial
cost generally represents net book value at December 20, 1993, except for acquired properties and new developments after December 20, 1993. Initial cost also
includes any new developments that are opened during the current year. Costs of disposals of property are first reflected as a reduction to cost capitalized subsequent to acquisition.

(4)

Not
developed/constructed by Simon Property or its predecessors. The date of construction represents acquisition date.

(5)

Property
initial cost for these properties is the cost at the date of consolidation for properties previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Accumulated
depreciation amounts for properties consolidated which were previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting include the minority interest holders' portion of accumulated depreciation.


QuickLinks


Part I

Item 1. Business

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Mortgage and Other Debt on Portfolio Properties As of December 31, 2006 (Dollars in thousands)

Mortgage and Other Debt on Portfolio Properties and Investments in Real Estate As of December 31, 2006 (Dollars in thousands)

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Part II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Item 9B. Other Information

Part III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

SIGNATURES