Item 1. Business.



Overview

JPMorgan Chase & Co.,(“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”)a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of America(“U.S.”), with operations worldwide; the Firm had$2.5 trillionin assets and$254.2 billionin stockholders’ equity as ofDecember 31, 2016.The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world’s most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.

JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), a national banking association with U.S. branches in23states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association (“Chase Bank USA, N.A.”), a national banking association that is the Firm’s credit card-issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (“JPMorgan Securities”), the Firm’s U.S. investment banking firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks. One of the Firm’s principal operating subsidiaries in theU.K.is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

The Firm’s website is www.jpmorganchase.com. JPMorgan Chase makes available free of charge, through its website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Firm has adopted, and posted on its website, a Code of Conduct for all employees of the Firm and a Code of Ethics for its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer and all other professionals of the Firm worldwide serving in a finance, accounting, tax or investor relations role.



Business segments

JPMorgan Chase’s activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, intofourmajor reportable business segments, as well as a Corporatesegment. The Firm’s consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”) segment. The Firm’s wholesale business segments are Corporate & Investment Bank (“CIB”), Commercial Banking (“CB”), and Asset & Wealth Management (“AWM”) (formerly Asset Management or “AM”).

A description of the Firm’s business segments and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases is provided in the “Business segment results” section



of Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”), beginning on page36and in Note 33.



Competition

JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, hedge funds, commodity trading companies, private equity firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, investment managers, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, financial technology companies, and other companies engaged in providing similar products and services. The Firm’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and variety of the Firm’s products and services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. With respect to some of its geographies and products, JPMorgan Chase competes globally; with respect to others, the Firm competes on a national or regional basis. The Firm’s ability to compete also depends on its ability to attract and retain professional and other personnel, and on its reputation.

It is likely that competition in the financial services industry will become even more intense as the Firm’s businesses continue to compete with other financial institutions that may have a stronger local presence in certain geographies or that operate under different rules and regulatory regimes than the Firm, or with companies that provide new or innovative products or services that the Firm does not provide.



Supervision and regulation

The Firm issubject to regulation under state and federal laws in the U.S., as well as the applicable laws of each of the various jurisdictions outside the U.S. in whichthe Firmdoes business.

As a result of regulatory reforms enacted and proposed in the U.S. and abroad,the Firmhas been experiencing a period of significant change in regulation which has had and could continue to have significant consequences for howthe Firmconducts business.The Firmcontinues to work diligently in assessing the regulatory changes it is facing, and is devoting substantial resources to comply with all the new regulations, while, at the same time, endeavoring to best meet the needs and expectations of its customers, clients and shareholders. These efforts include the implementation of new policies, procedures and controls, and appropriate adjustments tothe Firm’sbusiness and operations, legal entity structure, and capital and liquidity management. The combined effect of numerous rule-makings by multiple governmental agencies and regulators, and the potential conflicts or inconsistencies among such






Part I



rules, present challenges and risks tothe Firm’sbusiness and operations. Given the current status of the regulatory developments,the Firmcannot currently quantify all of the possible effects on its business and operations of the significant changes that are underway.For more information, see Risk Factors onpages 8–21.

Financial holding company:

Consolidated supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”)

. As a bank holding company (“BHC”) and a financial holding company, JPMorgan Chase is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve acts as an “umbrella regulator” and certain of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional authorities based on the particular activities of those subsidiaries. For example, JPMorgan Chase’s national bank subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are subject to supervision and regulation by the

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”)

and, with respect to certain matters, by the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”).

Certain non-bank

subsidiaries, such as

the Firm’s

U.S. broker-dealers, are subject to supervision and regulation by the

SEC, and subsidiaries of the Firm that engage in

certain futures-related and swaps-related activities



are subject to supervision and regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). J.P. Morgan Securities plc, is a U.K. bank licensed within the European Economic Area (the “EEA”) to undertake all banking activity and is regulated by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (the “PRA”), a subsidiary of the Bank of England which has responsibility for prudential regulation of banks and other systemically important institutions, and by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which regulates prudential matters for firms that are not so regulated by the PRA and conduct matters for all market participants.

The Firm’s

other non-U.S. subsidiaries are regulated by the banking and securities regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate. See Securities and broker-dealer regulation, Investment management regulation and Derivatives regulation below. In addition,

the Firm’s

consumer activities are subject to supervision and regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”)



and to regulation under various state statutes which are enforced by the respective state’s Attorney General.



Scope of permissible business activities.The Bank Holding Company Act generally restricts BHCs from engaging in business activities other than the business of banking and certain closely related activities. Financial holding companies generally can engage in a broader range of financial activities than are otherwise permissible for BHCs,including underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities, and making merchant banking investments in non-financial companies.The Federal Reserve has the authority to limit a financial holding company’s ability to conduct otherwise permissible activities if the financial



holding company or any of its depositary institution subsidiaries ceases to meet the applicable eligibility requirements (including requirements that thefinancialholding company and each of its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries maintain their status as “well-capitalized” and “well-managed”).The Federal Reserve may also impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and may, for example, require divestiture of the holding company’s depository institutions if the deficiencies persist. Federal regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Federal Reserve must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies. In addition, a financial holding company must obtain Federal Reserve approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the U.S. and internationally, as further described under Regulation of acquisitions below.

Activities restrictions under the Volcker Rule.Section 619 of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) (the “Volcker Rule”) prohibits banking entities, includingthe Firm, from engaging in certain “proprietary trading” activities, subject to exceptions for underwriting, market-making, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. In addition, the Volcker Rule limits the sponsorship of, and investment in, “covered funds” (as defined by the Volcker Rule) and imposes limits on certain transactions betweenthe Firmand its sponsored funds (see JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiary banks — Restrictions on transactions with affiliates below). The Volcker Rule requires banking entities to establish comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to help ensure and monitor compliance with the restrictions under the Volcker Rule, including, in order to distinguish permissible from impermissible risk-taking activities, the measurement, monitoring and reporting of certain key metrics.

Capital and liquidity requirements.The Federal Reserve establishes capital and leverage requirements forthe Firmand evaluates its compliance with such requirements. The OCC establishes similar capital and leverage requirements forthe Firm’snational banking subsidiaries. For more information about the applicable requirements relating to risk-based capital and leverage in the U.S. under the most recent capital framework established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”)(“Basel III”), see Capital Risk Management onpages 76–85and Note 28.Under Basel III, bank holding companies and banks are required to measure their liquidity against two specific liquidity tests: the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) and the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”). The U.S. banking regulators have approved the final LCR rule (“U.S. LCR”), which became effective on January 1, 2015. In April 2016, the U.S. banking regulators issued a proposed rule for NSFR.For additional information on these ratios, see Liquidity Risk Management onpages 110–115.On December 19, 2016 the Federal Reserve published final








U.S. LCR public disclosure requirements. Starting with the second quarter of 2017,

the Firm

will be required to disclose quarterly its consolidated LCR pursuant to the U.S. LCR rule, including

the Firm’s

average LCR for the quarter and the key quantitative components of the average LCR in a standardized template, along with a qualitative discussion of material drivers of the ratio, changes over time, and causes of such changes. On September 8, 2016 the Federal Reserve published the framework that will apply to the setting of the countercyclical capital buffer. As of October 24, 2016 the Federal Reserve reaffirmed setting the U.S. countercyclical capital buffer at 0%, and stated that it will review the amount at least annually.



Banking supervisors continue to consider refinements and enhancements to the Basel III capital framework for financial institutions. The Basel Committee finalized revisions to market risk capital for trading books and the treatment of interest rate risk in the banking book; other proposals being contemplated by the Basel Committee include revisions to, among others,



standardized credit and operational risk capital frameworks

,

a recalibration of the leverage ratio, revisions to the securitization framework, and changes to the definition of defaulted assets. In January 2017, the Basel Committee announced that the review of the proposals to finalize the post-crisis regulatory reforms has been postponed. After a proposal is finalized by the Basel Committee, U.S. banking regulators would then need to propose requirements applicable to U.S. financial institutions.



In March 2016, the Federal Reserve Board released a revised proposal to establish single-counterparty credit limits for large U.S. bank holding companies and foreign banking organizations.



Stress tests.The Federal Reserve has adopted supervisory stress tests for large bank holding companies, including JPMorgan Chase, which form part of the Federal Reserve’s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) framework. Under the framework,the Firmmust conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests and, in addition, must submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed bythe Firmand the Federal Reserve. In reviewingthe Firm’scapital plan, the Federal Reserve considers both quantitative and qualitative factors. Qualitative assessments include, among other things, the comprehensiveness of the plan, the assumptions and analysis underlying the plan, and the extent to whichthe Firmhas satisfied certain supervisory matters related tothe Firm’sprocesses and analyses, including the design and operational effectiveness of the controls governing such processes. Moreover,the Firmis required to receive a notice of non-objection from the Federal Reserve before taking capital actions, such as paying dividends, implementing common equity repurchase programs or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. The OCC requires JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to perform separate, similar annual stress tests.The Firmpublishes each year the results of its mid-cycle stress tests underthe Firm’sinternally-developed “severely adverse” scenario and the results of its



(and its two primary subsidiary banks’) annual stress tests under the supervisory “severely adverse” scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve and the OCC.The Firmwill file its 2017 annual CCAR submission on April 5. Results will be published by the Federal Reserve by June 30, with disclosures of results by BHCs, includingthe Firm,to follow within 15 days. The mid-cycle capital stress test submissions are due on October 5 and BHCs, includingthe Firm, will publish results by November 4.For additional information on the Firm’s CCAR, see Capital Risk Management onpages 76–85.

Enhanced prudential standards.The Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), among other things, recommends prudential standards and reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve for systemically important financial institutions (“SIFIs”), such as JPMorgan Chase. The Federal Reserve has adopted several rules to implement the heightened prudential standards, including final rules relating to risk management and corporate governance of subject BHCs. BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets are required to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management standards, and their boards of directors are required to conduct appropriate oversight of their risk management activities.For information on liquidity measures, see Liquidity Risk Management onpages 110–115.Several additional proposed rules are still being considered, including an “early remediation” framework to address financial distress or material management weaknesses.

Orderly liquidation authority and resolution and recovery.

As a BHC with assets of $50 billion or more,

the Firm

is required to submit annually to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material distress or failure (a “resolution plan”). The FDIC also requires each insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in assets

, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A.,

to provide a resolution plan.

For more information about the Firm’s resolution plan, see Risk Factors on

pages 8–21

as well as Business Overview on

pages 37–38

for information regarding the Firm’s 2016 Resolution Submission.

In addition, certain financial companies, including JPMorgan Chase and certain of its subsidiaries, can be subjected to resolution under an “orderly liquidation authority.” The U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President of the United States, must first make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations, and action must be recommended by the FDIC and the Federal Reserve. Absent such actions,

the Firm

, as a BHC, would remain subject to resolution under the Bankruptcy Code. In December 2013, the FDIC issued a draft policy statement describing its “single point of entry” strategy for resolution of systemically important financial institutions under the orderly liquidation authority. This strategy seeks to keep operating subsidiaries of the BHC open and impose losses on shareholders and creditors of the holding company in






Part I



receivership according to their statutory order of priority.For further information see Risk Factors onpages 8–21.

The Firmhas a comprehensive recovery plan detailing the actions it would take to avoid failure by remaining well-capitalized and well-funded in the case of an adverse event. JPMorgan Chase has provided the Federal Reserve with comprehensive confidential supervisory information and analyses aboutthe Firm’sbusinesses, legal entities and corporate governance and about its crisis management governance, capabilities and available alternatives to raise liquidity and capital in severe market circumstances. The OCC has published guidelines establishing standards for recovery planning by insured national banks, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. have submitted their recovery plans to the OCC.For further information see Risk Factors onpages 8–21.In addition, certain ofthe Firm’snon-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.

Regulators in the U.S. and abroad continue to be focused on developing measures designed to address the possibility or perception that large financial institutions, includingthe Firm,may be “too big to fail,” and to provide safeguards so that, if a large financial institution does fail, it can be resolved without the use of public funds. Higher capital surcharges onglobal systemically important banks (“GSIBs”),requirements for certain large bank holding companies to maintain a minimum amount of long-term debt to facilitate orderly resolution of those firms, and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) protocol relating to the “close-out” of derivatives transactions during the resolution of a large cross-border financial institution, are examples of initiatives to address “too big to fail.”For further informationon the GSIB framework and Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (“TLAC”), see Capital Risk Management onpages 76–85and Risk Factors onpages 8–21, andon the ISDA close-out protocol, see Derivatives regulation below.

Holding company as source of strength for bank subsidiaries. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is required to serve as a source of financial strength for its depository institution subsidiaries and to commit resources to support those subsidiaries. This support may be required by the Federal Reserve at times whenthe Firmmight otherwise determine not to provide it.

Regulation of acquisitions.Acquisitions by bank holding companies and their banks are subject to multiple requirements by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. For example, financial holding companies and bank holding companies are required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than 5% of the voting shares of an unaffiliated bank. In addition, acquisitions by financial companies are prohibited if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed 10% of the total liabilities of all financial companies. In addition, for certain acquisitions,the Firmmust provide written notice to the Federal Reserve prior to acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of



any voting shares of any company with over $10 billion in assets that is engaged in activities that are “financial in nature.”

JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiary banks:

The Firm’stwo primary subsidiary banks, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are FDIC-insured national banks regulated by the OCC. As national banks, the activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. are limited to those specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and related interpretations by the OCC.

FDIC deposit insurance.The FDIC deposit insurance fund provides insurance coverage for certain deposits and is funded through assessments on banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. Changes in the methodology used to calculate such assessments, resulting from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, significantly increased the assessments thatthe Firm’sbank subsidiaries pay annually to the FDIC. The FDIC instituted a new assessment surcharge on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets greater than $10 billion in order to raise the reserve ratio for the FDIC deposit insurance fund. Future FDIC rule-making could further increase such assessments.

FDIC powers upon a bank insolvency.Upon the insolvency of an insured depository institution, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the FDIC could be appointed as the conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”).The FDIC has broad powers to transfer any assets and liabilities without the approval of the institution’s creditors.For further information on the impact to creditors, see Risk Factors onpages 8–21.

Cross-guarantee.An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC if another FDIC-insured institution that is under common control with such institution is in default or is deemed to be “in danger of default” (commonly referred to as “cross-guarantee” liability). An FDIC cross-guarantee claim against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against such depository institution.

Prompt corrective action and early remediation.The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. While these regulations apply only to banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against the parent BHC, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co., based on the undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its undercapitalized subsidiary.








OCC Heightened Standards.The OCC has established guidelines setting forth heightened standards for large banks. The guidelines establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework for banks. While the bank can use certain components of the parent company’s risk governance framework, the framework must ensure that the bank’s risk profile is easily distinguished and separate from the parent for risk management purposes. The bank’s board or risk committee is responsible for approving the bank’s risk governance framework, providing active oversight of the bank’s risk-taking activities, and holding management accountable for adhering to the risk governance framework.

Restrictions on transactions with affiliates.The bank subsidiaries ofJPMorgan Chase (including subsidiaries of those banks)are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, investments in stock or securities of, and derivatives, securities lending and certain other transactions with, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and certain other affiliates. These restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other affiliates from borrowing fromsuch subsidiariesunless the loans are secured in specified amounts and comply with certain other requirements. For more information, see Note27.In addition, the Volcker Rule imposes a prohibition on such transactions between any JPMorgan Chase entity and covered funds for which a JPMorgan Chase entity serves as the investment manager, investment advisor, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, as well as, subject to a limited exception, any covered fund controlled by such funds.

Dividend restrictions.Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.and Chase Bank USA, N.A. See Note 27for the amount of dividends thatthe Firm’s principal bank subsidiariescould pay, at January 1, 2017, totheir respective bank holding companieswithout the approval oftheirbanking regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the OCC and the Federal Reserve have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends of thebank subsidiaries they supervise, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of thebank.

Depositor preference.Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative expense and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC and foreign deposits that are payable in the U.S. as well as in a foreign branch) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including public noteholders and depositors in non-U.S. offices. As a result, such persons could receive substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution.

CFPB regulation and supervision, and other consumer regulations.JPMorgan Chase and its national bank subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are subject to supervision and



the Firm.

Securities and broker-dealer regulation:

The Firmconducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the U.S. through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of which are subject to regulations of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the New York Stock Exchange, among others.The Firmconducts similar securities activities outside the U.S. subject to local regulatory requirements. In the U.K., those activities are conducted by J.P. Morgan Securities plc and are regulated PRA and the FCA. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds, the financing of clients’ purchases, capital structure, record-keeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers and employees.For information on the net capital of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and the applicable requirements relating to risk-based capital for J.P. Morgan Securities plc, see Broker-dealer regulatory capital onpage 85.In addition, rules adopted by the Department of Labor would impose (among other things) a new standard of care applicable to broker-dealers when dealing with customers. For more information see - Investment management regulation below.






Part I



Investment management regulation:

The Firm’sasset management businesses are subject to significant investment management regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets, offerings of funds, marketing activities, transactions among affiliates and management of client funds. Certain ofthe Firm’ssubsidiaries are registered with, and subject to oversight by, the SEC as investment advisers. As such,the Firm’sregistered investment advisers are subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as various state securities laws. For information regarding investigations and litigation in connection with disclosures to clients related to proprietary products, see Note31.

The Firm’s

asset management businesses continue to be affected by ongoing rule-making and implementation of new regulations. The SEC amendments to rules that govern money-market funds, requiring a floating net asset value for institutional prime money-market funds

became effective October 14, 2016. In addition, the SEC adopted amendments regarding enhanced liquidity risk management for open-end mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”) and enhanced reporting for funds and advisors.

The Department of Labor (“DOL”) “fiduciary” rule would significantly expand the universe of persons viewed as investment advice fiduciaries to retirement plans and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”) under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”).



Among the most significant impacts of the rule and related prohibited transaction exemptions would be the impact on the fee and compensation practices at financial institutions that offer investment advice to retail retirement clients. The related exemptions would require new client contracts, adherence to “impartial conduct” standards (including a requirement to act in the “best interest” of retirement clients), implementation of policies and procedures, websites and other disclosures to both investors and the DOL.

The rule was due to become applicable from April 10, 2017; however following a recent memorandum from the White House directing review of the rule, the DOL announced that it is considering legal options for delaying the rule’s applicability.



Derivatives regulation:

The Firmis subject to comprehensive regulation of its derivatives businesses. The regulations impose capital and margin requirements (including the collecting and posting of variation margin and initial margin in respect of non-centrally cleared derivatives), require central clearing of standardized over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives, require that certain standardized over-the-counter swaps be traded on regulated trading venues, and provide for reporting of certain mandated information. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the registration of “swap dealers” and “major swap participants” with the CFTC and of “security-based swap dealers” and “major security-based swap participants” with the SEC. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan



Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities plc and J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities plc may be required to register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers. As a result of their registration as swap dealers or security-based swap dealers, these entities will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to their swap or security-based swap activities, which includes capital requirements, rules regulating their swap activities, rules requiring the collateralization of uncleared swaps, rules regarding segregation of counterparty collateral, business conduct and documentation standards, record-keeping and reporting obligations, and anti-fraud and anti-manipulation requirements. Further, some of the rules for derivatives apply extraterritorially to U.S. firms doing business with clients outside of the U.S., as well as to the overseas activities of non-U.S. subsidiaries of

the Firm

that either deal with U.S. persons or that are guaranteed by U.S. subsidiaries of

the Firm

; however, the full scope of the extra-territorial impact of the U.S. swaps regulation has not been finalized and therefore remains unclear. The effect of these rules may require banking entities, such as

the Firm

, to modify the structure of their derivatives businesses and face increased operational and regulatory costs. In the European Union (the “EU”), the implementation of the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) and the revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”) will result in comparable, but not identical, changes to the European regulatory regime for derivatives. The combined effect of the U.S. and EU requirements, and the potential conflicts and inconsistencies between them, present challenges and risks to the structure and operating model of

the Firm’s

derivatives businesses.



The Firmand other financial institutions have agreed to adhere to an updated Resolution Stay Protocol developed by ISDA in response to regulator concerns that the close-out of derivatives and other financial transactions during the resolution of a large cross-border financial institution could impede resolution efforts and potentially destabilize markets. The Resolution Stay Protocol provides for the contractual recognition of cross-border stays under various statutory resolution regimes and a contractual stay on certain cross-default rights.

In the U.S., one subsidiary ofthe Firmis registered as a futures commission merchant, and other subsidiaries are either registered with the CFTC as commodity pool operators and commodity trading advisors or are exempt from such registration. These CFTC-registered subsidiaries are also members of the National Futures Association.

Data regulation:

The Firmand its subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and international laws and regulations concerning the use and protection of certain customer, employee and other personal and confidential information, including those imposed by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair Credit








Reporting Act, as well as the EU Data Protection Directive. In addition, various U.S. regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the SEC, have increased their focus on cybersecurity through guidance, examinations and regulations.

In May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) will replace the EU Data Protection Directive, and it will have a significant impact on how businesses can collect and process the personal data of EU individuals. In addition, numerous proposals regarding privacy and data protection are pending before U.S. and non-U.S. legislative and regulatory bodies.

The Bank Secrecy Act and Economic Sanctions:

The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) requires all financial institutions, including banks and securities broker-dealers, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The BSA includes a variety of record-keeping and reporting requirements (such as cash transaction and suspicious activity reporting), as well as due diligence/know your customer documentation requirements. In January 2013,the Firmentered into Consent Orders with its banking regulators relating tothe Firm’sBank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering policies, procedures and controls;the Firmhas taken significant steps to modify and enhance its processes and controls with respect to its Anti-Money Laundering procedures and to remediate the issues identified in the Consent Order.The Firmis also subject to the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”).

Anti-Corruption:

The Firmis subject to laws and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments to government officials and others in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. For more information onthe Firm’sconsent judgment and non-prosecution agreement relating to referral hiring practices, see Note31.

Compensation practices:

The Firm’scompensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve, as well as other agencies. The Federal Reserve has issued guidance jointly with the FDIC and the OCC that is designed to ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations’ safety and soundness. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, federal regulators, including the Federal Reserve, must issue regulations or guidelines requiring covered financial institutions, includingthe Firm, to report the structure of all incentive-based compensation arrangements and prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the institution. Proposed regulations were issued in 2016, and the public comment period has closed. Final regulations have not yet been



published. The Federal Reserve has conducted a review of the incentive compensation policies and practices of a number of large banking institutions, includingthe Firm.In addition to the Federal Reserve, the Financial Stability Board has established standards covering compensation principles for banks. In Europe, the Fourth Capital Requirements Directive (“CRD IV”) includes compensation provisions and the European Banking Authority has instituted guidelines on compensation policies under CRD IV. In the U.K., compensation standards are governed by the Remuneration Code of the PRA and the FCA. The implementation of the Federal Reserve’s and other banking regulators’ guidelines regarding compensation are expected to evolve over the next several years, and may affect the manner in whichthe Firmstructures its compensation programs and practices.

Significant international regulatory initiatives:

In the EU, there is an extensive and complex program of final and proposed regulatory enhancement that reflects, in part, the EU’s commitments to policies of the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (“G-20”) together with other plans specific to the EU. The EU operates a European Systemic Risk Board that monitors financial stability, together with European Supervisory Agencies that set detailed regulatory rules and encourage supervisory convergence across the 28 Member States. The EU has also created a Single Supervisory Mechanism for the euro-zone, under which the regulation of all banks in that zone will be under the auspices of the European Central Bank, together with a Single Resolution Mechanism and Single Resolution Board, having jurisdiction over bank resolution in the zone. At both the G-20 and EU levels, various proposals are under consideration to address risks associated with global financial institutions. Some of the initiatives adopted include increased capital requirements for certain trading instruments or exposures and compensation limits on certain employees located in affected countries.

Guided by the G20 policy framework, the EU and national financial regulators have proposed or adopted several market reforms, including EMIR, which requires, among other things, the central clearing of standardized derivatives; and MiFID II, which gives effect to the G-20 commitment to trading of derivatives through central clearing houses and exchanges and also includes significantly enhanced requirements for pre- and post-trade transparency and a significant reconfiguration of the regulatory supervision of execution venues. Key aspects of EMIR and MiFID II have been finalized, although the implementation date of MiFID II has been delayed to 2018.

The EU is also currently considering or implementing significant revisions to laws covering depositary activities; credit-rating activities; resolution of banks, investment firms and market infrastructures; anti-money laundering controls; data security and privacy; corporate governance in financial firms; and implementation in the EU of the Basel III capital and liquidity standards, including the introduction of






Part I



an intermediate holding company requirement for foreign banks and the implementation of the standard for TLAC.

The EU is also considering proposed legislation providing for a proprietary trading ban and mandatory separation of other trading activities within certain banks; various EU Member States have separately enacted similar measures. In the U.K., legislation was adopted that mandates the separation (or “ring-fencing”) of deposit-taking activities from securities trading and other analogous activities within banks, subject to certain exemptions. The legislation includes the supplemental recommendation of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards (the “Tyrie Commission”) that such ring-fences should be “electrified” by the imposition of mandatory forced separation on banking institutions that are deemed to test the limits of the safeguards. Parallel but distinct provisions have been enacted by the French and German governments. These measures may separately or taken together have significant implications forthe Firm’sorganizational structure in Europe, as well as its permitted activities and capital deployment in the EU.

Much of the G20 policy framework has been finalized; however, the Basel Committee is currently reviewing the framework, and proposing recalibrations of certain requirements. As such, the EU is considering or implementing significant revisions to laws covering: bank and investment firm recovery and resolution; bank structure; securities settlement; transparency and disclosure of securities financing transactions; benchmarks; resolution of market infrastructures (central counterparties (“CCPs”)); anti-money laundering controls; data security and privacy; and corporate governance in financial firms; together with new amendments to capital and liquidity standards.

Consistent with the G20 and EU policy frameworks, U.K. regulators have adopted a range of policy measures that have significantly changed the markets and prudential regulatory environment in the U.K. In addition to broad recommendations made by the Fair and Effective Markets Review which focused on fixed income currencies and commodities markets, U.K. regulators are considering measures to raise standards and accountability of individuals, and promote forward-looking conduct risk identification and mitigation, including by introducing the new Senior Managers and Certification Regimes.

On June 23, 2016, the U.K. voted by referendum to leave the European Union (“Brexit”). The U.K. Government has since announced that it will invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty and will start the formal exit negotiations by the end of March 2017, giving an expected exit date of the end of March 2019. More recently, the British Prime Ministerlaid out twelve “negotiation objectives” for Brexit, which confirmed the U.K. will not remain a member of the Single Market, but will pursue a Free Trade Agreement that provides the greatest possible access to the Single Market. Further, the U.K. Government will seek a phased arrangement to ensure the orderly transition of the legal



and regulatory framework for financial services, and promote stability and market confidence. Following a recent ruling by the U.K. Supreme Court, the House of Commons approved legislation on February 8, 2017 that allows the British Prime Minister to invoke Article 50. The legislation must now be approved by the House of Lords before it is signed into law.

Many international banks, includingthe Firm,operate substantial parts of their European Union businesses from entities based in the U.K. Upon the U.K. leaving the European Union, the regulatory and legal environment that would then exist, and to whichthe Firm’sU.K. operations would then be subject, will depend on, in certain respects, the nature of the arrangements the U.K. agreed with the European Union and other trading partners. These arrangements cannot be predicted, but currentlythe Firmdoes not believe any of the likely identified scenarios would threaten the viability ofthe Firm’sbusiness units orthe Firm’sability to serve clients across the European Union and in the U.K. However, it is possible that under some scenarios, changes tothe Firm’slegal entity structure and operations would be required, which might result in a less efficient operating model acrossthe Firm’sEuropean legal entities.

The Firmis in the process of evaluating plans to ensure its continued ability to operate in the U.K. and the EU beyond the expected exit date.



