ITEM 1: BUSINESS





Overview

JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”) is a financial holding company incorporated
under Delaware law in 1968. JPMorgan Chase is one of the largest banking institutions in the United
States of America (“U.S.”), with $2.0 trillion in assets, $165.4 billion in stockholders’ equity
and operations in more than 60 countries.

JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
(“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), a national banking association with U.S. branches in 23 states, and
Chase Bank USA, National Association (“Chase Bank USA, N.A.”), a national banking association that
is the Firm’s credit card–issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P.
Morgan Securities Inc. (“JPMorgan Securities”), the Firm’s U.S. investment banking firm. The bank
and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches
and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks.

The Firm’s website is www.jpmorganchase.com. JPMorgan Chase makes available free of charge, through
its website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on
Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after it
electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Firm has adopted, and posted on its website, a Code of Ethics
for its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and
other senior financial officers.



Business segments

JPMorgan Chase’s activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into six business
segments, as well as Corporate/Private Equity. The Firm’s wholesale businesses comprise the
Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management segments.
The Firm’s consumer businesses comprise the Retail Financial Services and Card Services segments.

A description of the Firm’s business segments and the products and services they provide to their
respective client bases is provided in the “Business segment results” section of Management’s
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”), beginning on
page 53 and in Note 34 on page 237.



Competition

JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in a highly competitive environment.
Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks,
hedge funds, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, credit card companies, mortgage banking
companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile financing companies,
leasing companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial
services and advisory

companies. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the
quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price.
Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies
served. With respect to some of its geographies and products, JPMorgan Chase competes globally;
with respect to others, the Firm competes on a regional basis. The Firm’s ability to compete also
depends on its ability to attract and retain its professional and other personnel, and on its
reputation.

The financial services industry has experienced consolidation and convergence in recent years, as
financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial products and services have merged
and, in some cases, failed. This convergence trend is expected to continue. Consolidation could
result in competitors of JPMorgan Chase gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a
broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. It is likely that competition will
become even more intense as the Firm’s businesses continue to compete with other financial
institutions that are or may become larger or better capitalized, or that may have a stronger local
presence in certain geographies.



Supervision and regulation

The Firm is subject to regulation under state and federal laws in the U.S., as well as the
applicable laws of each of the various jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Firm does
business.

Recent Events affecting the Firm:









Part I

Permissible business activities:JPMorgan Chase elected to become a financial holding company as of
March 13, 2000, pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”). Under
regulations implemented by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal
Reserve Board”), if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company ceases to
meet certain capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve Board may impose corrective
capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and place limitations on
its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding
companies. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board may require divestiture of the holding company’s
depository institutions if the deficiencies persist. The regulations also provide that if any
depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory
rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), the Federal Reserve Board must prohibit the
financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other
than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. At
December 31, 2009, the depository-institution subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase met the capital,
management and CRA requirements necessary to permit the Firm to conduct the broader activities
permitted under GLBA.

Financial holding companies and bank holding companies are required to obtain the approval of the
Federal Reserve Board before they may acquire more than five percent of the voting shares of an
unaffiliated bank. Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of
1994 (the “Riegle-Neal Act”), the Federal Reserve Board may approve an application for such an
acquisition without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited under the law of any state,
provided that the acquiring bank holding company, before or after the acquisition, does not control
more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. or
more than 30% (or such greater or lesser amounts as permitted under state law) of the total
deposits of insured depository institutions in the state in which the acquired bank has its home
office or a branch.

Regulation by Federal Reserve Board under GLBA:Under GLBA’s system of “functional regulation,” the
Federal Reserve Board acts as an “umbrella regulator,” and certain of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries
are regulated directly by additional authorities based on the particular activities of those
subsidiaries. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are regulated by the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”). See “Other supervision and regulation” below for a further
description of the regulatory supervision to which the Firm’s subsidiaries are subject.

Dividend restrictions:Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national
banks. Dividends payable by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., as national bank
subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase, are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a “recent
earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not
be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the
current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless
the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided

profits test, a dividend may
not be paid in excess of a bank’s “undivided profits.” See Note 28 on page 228 for the amount of
dividends that the Firm’s principal bank subsidiaries could pay, at January 1, 2010 and 2009, to
their respective bank holding companies without the approval of their banking regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and
the FDIC have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations
they supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its bank and bank holding company subsidiaries, if, in
the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound
practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.

For a discussion of additional dividend restrictions relating to the Capital Purchase Program, see
Note 23 on pages 222-223.

Capital requirements:Federal banking regulators have adopted risk-based capital and leverage
guidelines that require the Firm’s capital-to-assets ratios to meet certain minimum standards.

The risk-based capital ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified off–balance sheet
financial instruments into risk weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required
for the categories perceived as representing greater risk. Under the guidelines, capital is divided
into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed the
amount of Tier 1 capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Under the
guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to
risk-weighted assets) of 8% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 4%. For a further description of these
guidelines, see Note 29 on pages 228–229.

The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The
leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets. The minimum
leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that are considered “strong” under Federal Reserve
Board guidelines or which have implemented the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-based capital measure
for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. Bank
holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon
their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.

The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the federal banking agencies follow the
Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. In 2004, the Basel Committee
published a revision to the Accord (“Basel II”). U.S. banking regulators published a final Basel II
rule in December 2007 which requires JPMorgan Chase to implement Basel II at the holding company
level, as well as at certain of its key U.S. bank subsidiaries. For additional information
regarding Basel II, see Regulatory capital onpage 83.

Effective January 1, 2008, the SEC authorized JPMorgan Securities to use the alternative method of
computing net capital for broker/dealers that are part of Consolidated Supervised Entities as
defined by SEC rules. Accordingly, JPMorgan Securities may









calculate deductions for market risk using its internal market risk models. For additional
information regarding the Firm’s regulatory capital, see Regulatory capital on pages 83–84.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act:The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”) provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions
and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. As
part of that Framework, the FDICIA requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt
corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet
certain capital adequacy standards.

Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal banking regulator under the “prompt corrective
action” rules generally depend upon an institution’s classification within five capital categories.
The regulations apply only to banks and not to bank holding companies such as JPMorgan Chase;
however, subject to limitations that may be imposed pursuant to GLBA, the Federal Reserve Board is
authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based on the undercapitalized
status of the holding company’s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to
an undercapitalized banking institution, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee
the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary’s capital restoration plan and might be liable
for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on that guarantee.

Deposit Insurance:Under current FDIC regulations, each depository institution is assigned to a
risk category based on capital and supervisory measures. In 2009, the FDIC revised the method for
calculating the assessment rate for depository institutions by introducing several adjustments to
an institution’s initial base assessment rate. A depository institution is assessed premiums by the
FDIC based on its risk category as adjusted and the amount of deposits held. Higher levels of banks
failures over the past two years have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and
depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the amount of FDIC insurance coverage for insured
deposits has been increased generally from $100,000 per depositor to $250,000 per depositor. In
light of the increased stress on the deposit insurance fund caused by these developments, and in
order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the deposit insurance
fund, the FDIC imposed a special assessment in June, 2009, has increased assessment rates of
insured institutions generally, and required them to prepay on December 30, 2009 the premiums that
are expected to become due over the next three years.

Powers of the FDIC upon insolvency of an insured depository institution:If the FDIC is appointed
the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution upon its insolvency or in certain
other events, the FDIC has the power: (1) to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets
and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors;
(2) to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or (3)
to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the
performance of which

is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmation or
repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the
depository institution. The above provisions would be applicable to obligations and liabilities of
JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries that are insured depository institutions, such as JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A., including, without limitation, obligations under senior or
subordinated debt issued by those banks to investors (referred to below as “public noteholders”) in
the public markets.

Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative
expense and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC, as subrogee of
the depositors) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution,
including public noteholders and depositors in non-U.S. offices, in the event of the liquidation or
other resolution of the institution. As a result, whether or not the FDIC would ever seek to
repudiate any obligations held by public noteholders or depositors in non-U.S. offices of any
subsidiary of the Firm that is an insured depository institution, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., or Chase Bank USA, N.A., such persons would be treated differently from, and could receive,
if anything, substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository.

An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected to be
incurred by the FDIC in connection with another FDIC-insured institution under common control with
such institution being “in default” or “in danger of default” (commonly referred to as
“cross-guarantee” liability). An FDIC cross-guarantee claim against a depository institution is
generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against
such depository institution.

The Bank Secrecy Act:The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) requires all financial institutions, including
banks and securities broker-dealers, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of
internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
The BSA includes a variety of recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as cash and suspicious
activity reporting), as well as due diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. The
Firm has established a global anti-money laundering program in order to comply with BSA
requirements.

Other supervision and regulation:Under current Federal Reserve Board policy, JPMorgan Chase is
expected to act as a source of financial strength to its bank subsidiaries and to commit resources
to support these subsidiaries in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy.
However, because GLBA provides for functional regulation of financial holding company activities by
various regulators, GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring payment by a holding
company or subsidiary to a depository institution if the functional regulator of the payor objects
to such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve Board could instead require the divestiture of
the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture.

The bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law
on extensions of credit to, and certain other transactions with, the Firm and certain other
affiliates,









Part I

and on investments in stock or securities of JPMorgan Chase and those affiliates. These
restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase and other affiliates from borrowing from a bank subsidiary
unless the loans are secured in specified amounts and are subject to certain other limits. For more
information, see Note 28 on page 230.

The Firm’s banks and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries are subject to direct supervision and
regulation by various other federal and state authorities (some of which are considered “functional
regulators” under GLBA). JPMorgan Chase’s national bank subsidiaries, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC and, in
certain matters, by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. Supervision and regulation by the
responsible regulatory agency generally includes comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects
of the relevant bank’s business and condition, and imposition of periodic reporting requirements
and limitations on investments, among other powers.

The Firm conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the U.S. through
JPMorgan Securities and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of which are subject to regulations
of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the New York Stock Exchange, among
others. The Firm conducts similar securities activities outside the U.S. subject to local
regulatory requirements. In the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), those activities are conducted by J.P.
Morgan Securities Ltd., which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority of the U.K. The
operations of JPMorgan Chase mutual funds also are subject to regulation by the SEC.

The Firm has subsidiaries that are members of futures exchanges in the U.S. and abroad and are
registered accordingly. In the U.S., three subsidiaries are registered as futures commission
merchants, with other subsidiaries registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the
“CFTC”) as commodity pool operators and commodity trading advisors. These CFTC-registered
subsidiaries are also members of the National Futures Association. The Firm’s U.S. energy business
is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. It is also subject to other
extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental and other governmental regulation both in
the U.S. and other jurisdictions globally.

The types of activities in which the non-U.S. branches of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and the
international subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed
by the Federal Reserve Board. Those non-U.S. branches and international subsidiaries also are
subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.

The activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. as consumer lenders also are
subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending, Equal Credit
Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice and Electronic Funds Transfer
acts, as well as various state laws. These statutes impose requirements on consumer loan
origination and collection practices.

Under the requirements imposed by GLBA, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are required
periodically to disclose to their retail customers the Firm’s policies and practices with

respect
to the sharing of nonpublic customer information with JPMorgan Chase affiliates and others, and the
confidentiality and security of that information. Under GLBA, retail customers also must be given
the opportunity to “opt out” of information-sharing arrangements with nonaffiliates, subject to
certain exceptions set forth in GLBA.



