ITEM 1: BUSINESS



Overview

JPMorgan Chase & Co.(“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of America (“U.S.” or “United States”), with operations worldwide; the Firm had$2.4 trillionin assets and$211.2 billionin stockholders’ equity as ofDecember 31, 2013. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world’s most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.

JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), a national bank with U.S. branches in23states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association (“Chase Bank USA, N.A.”), a national bank that is the Firm’s credit card–issuing bank.JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (“JPMorgan Securities”), the Firm’s U.S. investment banking firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries ofJPMorgan Chaseoperate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks. One of the Firm’s principal operating subsidiaries in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) is J.P. Morgan Securities plc (formerly J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd.), a wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

The Firm’s website is www.jpmorganchase.com.JPMorgan Chasemakes available free of charge, through its website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Firm has adopted, and posted on its website, a Code of Ethics for its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and other finance professionals of the Firm.



Business segments

JPMorgan Chase’s activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, intofourmajor reportable business segments, as well as a Corporate/Private Equity segment. The Firm’s consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking segment. The Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, and Asset Management segments comprise the Firm’s wholesale businesses.



A description of the Firm’s business segments and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases is provided in the “Business segment results” section of Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”), beginning on page64and in Note 33 on pages334–337.



Competition

JPMorgan Chaseand its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, hedge funds, commodity trading companies, private equity firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, investment managers, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies.JPMorgan Chase’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price. Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. With respect to some of its geographies and products,JPMorgan Chasecompetes globally; with respect to others, the Firm competes on a regional basis. The Firm’s ability to compete also depends on its ability to attract and retain professional and other personnel, and on its reputation.

The financial services industry has experienced consolidation and convergence in recent years, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial products and services have merged and, in some cases, failed. This is expected to continue. Consolidation could result in competitors ofJPMorgan Chasegaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. It is likely that competition will become even more intense as the Firm’s businesses continue to compete with other financial institutions that may have a stronger local presence in certain geographies or that operate under different rules and regulatory regimes than the Firm.



Supervision and regulation

The Firm is subject to regulation under state and federal laws in the United States, as well as the applicable laws of each of the various jurisdictions outside the United States in which the Firm does business.

Regulatory reform: On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which is intended to make significant structural reforms to the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act instructs U.S. federal banking and other regulatory agencies to conduct approximately 285 rule-makings and 130 studies and reports. These regulatory agencies include the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”); the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”); the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal








Part I



Reserve”); the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”); the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”); the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “CFPB”); and the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “FSOC”). As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act rule-making and other regulatory reforms, the Firm is currently experiencing a period of unprecedented change in regulation and such changes could have a significant impact on how the Firm conducts business. The Firm continues to work diligently in assessing and understanding the implications of the regulatory changes it is facing, and is devoting substantial resources to implementing all the new regulations, while, at the same time, best meeting the needs and expectations of its clients. Given the current status of the regulatory developments, the Firm cannot currently quantify the possible effects on its business and operations of all of the significant changes that are currently underway. For more information, see “Risk Factors” on pages9–18. Certain of these changes include the following:

ŸComprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) and stress testing. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued final rules regarding the submission of capital plans by bank holding companies with total assets of $50 billion or more. Pursuant to these rules, the Federal Reserve requires the Firm to submit a capital plan on an annual basis. In October 2012, the Federal Reserve and the OCC issued rules requiring the Firm and certain of its bank subsidiaries to perform stress tests under one stress scenario created by the Firm as well as three scenarios (baseline, adverse and severely adverse) mandated by the Federal Reserve. The Firm will be unable to make any capital distributions unless approved by the Federal Reserve if the Federal Reserve objects to the Firm’s capital plan. For more information, see “CCAR and stress testing” on pages5–6.

ŸResolution plan.In September 2011, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve issued, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, a final rule that requires bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and companies designated as systemically important by the FSOC to submit periodically to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material distress or failure (a “resolution plan”). In January 2012, the FDIC also issued a final rule that requires insured depository institutions with assets of $50 billion or more to submit periodically to the FDIC a plan for resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDIA”) in the event of failure. The Firm’s initial resolution plan submissions were filed by July 1, 2012; annual updates to these resolution plan submissions are due by July 1 each year (although the 2013 plans were permitted to be filed in October 2013).

ŸDerivatives. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Firm is subject to comprehensive regulation of its derivatives business (including capital and margin requirements,



central clearing of standardized over-the-counter derivatives and the requirement that they be traded on regulated trading platforms) and heightened supervision. Further, some of the rules for derivatives apply extraterritorially to U.S. firms doing business with clients outside of the United States. In addition, commencing July 2015, certain derivatives transactions now executed by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., will be required to be executed through subsidiaries or affiliates of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The effect of these rules issued under the Dodd-Frank Act will necessitate banking entities, such as the Firm, to significantly restructure their derivatives businesses, including by changing the legal entities through which their derivatives activities are conducted. In the European Union (the “EU”), the implementation of the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) and the revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”) will result in comparable, but not identical, changes to the European regulatory regime for derivatives. The combined effect of the U.S. and EU requirements, and the conflicts between them, present challenges and risks to the structure and operating model of the Firm’s derivatives businesses.

ŸVolcker Rule. The Firm will also be affected by the requirements of Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, and specifically the provisions prohibiting proprietary trading and restricting the activities involving private equity and hedge funds (the “Volcker Rule”). On December 10, 2013, regulators adopted final regulations to implement the Volcker Rule. Under the final rules, “proprietary trading” is defined as the trading of securities, derivatives, or futures (or options on any of the foregoing) as principal, where such trading is principally for the purpose of short-term resale, benefiting from actual or expected short-term price movements and realizing short-term arbitrage profits or hedges of such positions. In order to distinguish permissible from impermissible principal risk taking, the final rules require the establishment of a complex compliance regime that includes the measurement and monitoring of seven metrics. The final rules specifically allow market-making-related activity, certain government-issued securities trading and certain risk management activities. The Firm has ceased all prohibited proprietary trading activities. The Firm must conform its remaining activities and investments to the Volcker Rule by July 21, 2015.

ŸMoney Market Fund Reform. In November 2012, the FSOC and the Financial Stability Board (the “FSB”) issued separate proposals regarding money market fund reform. Pursuant to Section 120 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FSOC published proposed recommendations that the SEC proceed with structural reforms of money market funds, including, among other possibilities, requiring that money market funds adopt a floating net asset value, mandating a capital buffer and requiring a hold-back on redemptions for












8–9

.

ŸCapital. In October 2013, U.S. federal banking agencies published the interim final rules implementing Basel III in the U.S. Under these rules the treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes will be phased out from inclusion as Tier 1 capital, but included as Tier 2 capital, beginning in 2014 through the end of 2015 and phased out from inclusion as Tier 2 capital beginning in 2016 through the end of 2021. In addition, in June 2011, the Basel Committee and the FSB announced that certain global systemically important banks (“GSIBs”) would be required to maintain additional capital, above the Basel III Tier 1 common equity minimum, in amounts ranging from 1% to 2.5%, depending upon the bank’s systemic importance. In June 2012, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC issued final rules for implementing ratings alternatives for the computation of risk-based capital for market risk exposures, which will result in significantly higher capital requirements for many securitization exposures. For more information, see “Capital requirements” on pages4-5.

ŸFDIC Deposit Insurance Fund Assessments.Effective April 1, 2011, the method for calculating the deposit insurance assessment rate changed. This resulted in a substantial increase in the assessments that the Firm’s



bank subsidiaries pay annually to the FDIC. For more information, see “Deposit insurance” on page6.

ŸConsumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as a new regulatory agency. The CFPB has authority to regulate providers of credit, payment and other consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has examination authority over large banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., with respect to the banks’ consumer financial products and services. The CFPB issued final regulations regarding mortgages, which became effective on January 10, 2014. For more information, see “CFPB and other consumer regulations” on page7.

ŸDebit interchange.On October 1, 2011, the Federal Reserve adopted final rules implementing the “Durbin Amendment” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which limit the amount the Firm can charge for each debit card transaction it processes. In July 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that the Federal Reserve exceeded its authority in the manner it set a cap on debit card transaction interchange fees and established network exclusivity prohibitions in its regulation implementing the Durbin Amendment.  The Federal Reserve announced in August 2013 that it was appealing the decision, and argument was heard in January 2014. On January 17, 2014, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit heard an appeal by the Federal Reserve of the District Court’s decision. The Federal Reserve’s regulations remain in effect until the appeal is decided.

Systemically important financial institutions: The Dodd-Frank Act creates a structure to regulate systemically important financial institutions, and subjects them to heightened prudential standards, including heightened capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management, resolution plan, single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements. JPMorgan Chase is considered a systemically important financial institution. On December 20, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement certain of the heightened prudential standards.

Permissible business activities: JPMorgan Chase elected to become a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000, pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.  If a financial holding company or any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve may, pursuant to its bank supervisory authority, impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies.  In addition, the Federal Reserve may require divestiture of the holding company’s depository institutions if the deficiencies persist. Federal regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community








Part I



Reinvestment Act (the “CRA”), the Federal Reserve must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies.

The Federal Reserve has proposed rules under which the Federal Reserve could impose restrictions on systemically important financial institutions that are experiencing financial weakness, which restrictions could include limits on acquisitions, among other things. For more information on the restrictions, see “Prompt corrective action and early remediation” on page6.

Dividend restrictions: Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks. Dividends payable by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., as national bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase, are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the national bank obtains the approval of the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank’s “undivided profits.” See Note 27 on page316for the amount of



dividends that the Firm’s principal bank subsidiaries could pay, at January 1, 2014, to their respective bank holding companies without the approval of their banking regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its bank and bank holding company subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. Under proposed rules issued by the Federal Reserve, dividends are restricted once any one of three risk-based capital ratios (tier 1 common, tier 1 capital, or total capital) falls below their respective minimum capital ratio requirement (inclusive of the GSIB surcharge) plus 2.5%.

Moreover, the Federal Reserve has issued rules requiring bank holding companies, such as JPMorgan Chase, to submit to the Federal Reserve a capital plan on an annual basis and receive a notice of non-objection from the Federal Reserve before taking capital actions, such as paying dividends, implementing common equity repurchase programs or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. For more information, see “CCAR and stress testing” on pages5–6.

Capital requirements: Federal banking regulators have adopted risk-based capital and leverage guidelines that require the Firm’s capital-to-assets ratios to meet certain minimum standards.

The risk-based capital ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet financial instruments into risk-weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk. Under the guidelines, capital is divided into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of 8% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 4%.

The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets. The minimum leverage ratio is 4% for bank holding companies. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the federal banking agencies follow the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel I”). In 2004, the Basel Committee published a revision to the Accord (“Basel II”). The goal of the Basel II Framework is to provide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active banking operations. In December 2010, the Basel Committee finalized further revisions to the Accord (“Basel












III”) which narrowed the definition of capital, increased capital requirements for specific exposures, introduced short-term liquidity coverage and term funding standards, and established an international leverage ratio.  In June 2011, the U.S. federal banking agencies issued rules to establish a permanent Basel I floor under Basel II/Basel III calculations.

In October 2013, U.S. federal banking agencies published the interim final rules implementing Basel III in the U.S. The interim final rules narrowed the definition of capital, increased capital requirements for certain exposures, set higher capital ratio requirements and minimum floors with respect to the capital ratio requirements and included a supplementary leverage ratio. U.S. banking regulators and the Basel Committee have, in addition, proposed changes to the leverage ratios applicable to the Firm and its bank subsidiaries.

In connection with the U.S. Government’s Supervisory Capital Assessment Program in 2009, U.S. banking regulators developed an additional measure of capital, Tier 1 common, which is defined as Tier 1 capital less elements of Tier 1 capital not in the form of common equity – such as perpetual preferred stock, non-controlling interests in subsidiaries and trust preferred capital debt securities. Tier 1 common, a non-GAAP financial measure, is used by banking regulators, investors and analysts to assess and compare the quality and composition of the Firm’s capital with the capital of other financial services companies. The Firm uses Tier 1 common along with the other capital measures to assess and monitor its capital position.In June 2012, the U.S. banking regulators revised, effective January 1, 2013, certain capital requirements for trading positions and securitizations (“Basel 2.5”).

GSIBs will be required to maintain additional capital, above the Basel III Tier 1 common equity minimum, in amounts ranging from 1% to 2.5%, depending upon the bank’s systemic importance. In November 2012, the FSB indicated that the Firm would be in the category subject to a 2.5% capital surcharge.  Furthermore, in order to provide a disincentive for banks facing the highest required level of Tier 1 common equity to “increase materially their global systemic importance in the future,” an additional 1% charge could be applied. Currently, no GSIB is required to hold more than the additional 2.5% of Tier 1 common.  The Federal Reserve has issued a proposed rule-making that incorporates the concept of a capital surcharge for GSIBs.

The Basel III revisions governing the capital requirements are subject to prolonged observation and transition periods. The phase-in period for banks to meet the revised Tier 1 common equity requirement begins in 2015, with implementation on January 1, 2019. The additional capital requirements for GSIBs will be phased-in starting January 1, 2016, with full implementation on January 1, 2019.

The Basel III rule also includes a requirement for advanced approach banking organizations, including the Firm, to calculate a supplementary leverage ratio (“SLR”). The SLR, a non-GAAP measure, is Tier 1 capital under Basel III



divided by the Firm’s total leverage exposure. Total leverage exposure is calculated by taking the Firm’s total average on-balance sheet assets, less amounts permitted to be deducted for Tier 1 capital, and adding certain off-balance sheet exposures, such as undrawn commitments and derivatives future exposure.

Following approval of the final Basel III rules, the U.S. banking agencies issued proposed rulemaking relating to SLR that would require U.S. bank holding companies, including the Firm, to have a minimum SLR of at least 5%. Insured depository institutions, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are required to have a minimum SLR of at least 6%. In addition, the Basel Committee has proposed further refinements to the computation of the SLR.

In addition to capital requirements, the Basel Committee has also proposed two new measures of liquidity risk: the “liquidity coverage ratio” and the “net stable funding ratio,” which are intended to measure, over different time spans, the liquidity of the Firm. The observation periods for both these standards began in 2011, with implementation commencing in 2015 and 2018, respectively. On October 24, 2013, the U.S. banking regulators released a proposal to implement a quantitative liquidity requirement consistent with, but more conservative than, the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) for large banks. It also provides for an accelerated transition period compared to what is currently required under the Basel III LCR rules. The Firm believes that it was in compliance with this new U.S. proposal related to LCR at December 31, 2013.

The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits the use of external credit ratings in federal regulations. In June 2012, the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC issued final rules implementing ratings alternatives for the computation of risk-based capital for market risk exposures, which will result in significantly higher capital requirements for many securitization exposures.

For additional information regarding the Firm’s regulatory capital, see Regulatory capital on pages161–165.

Risk reporting:In January 2013, the Basel Committee issued new regulations relating to risk aggregation and reporting. Under these regulations, the bank’s risk governance framework must encompass risk-data aggregation and reporting, and data aggregation must be highly automated and allow for minimal manual intervention. The regulations also impose higher standards for the accuracy, comprehensiveness, granularity and timely distribution of data reporting, and call for regular supervisory review of bank risk aggregation and reporting. GSIBs will be required to comply with these new standards by January 1, 2016.

CCAR and stress testing:In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued final rules regarding the submission of capital plans by bank holding companies with total assets of $50 billion or more. Pursuant to these rules, the Federal Reserve requires the Firm to submit a capital plan on an








Part I



Heightened Expectations:In January 2014, the OCC issued proposed rules and guidelines establishing heightened standards for large banks. The proposed guidelines set forth standards for the design and implementation of the bank’s risk governance framework, and minimum standards for oversight of that framework by the board of directors. The proposed guidelines are an extension of the OCC’s “heightened expectations” for large banks developed after the financial crisis. The heightened standards are intended to protect the safety and soundness of the bank. The bank may use certain components of the parent company’s risk governance framework, but the framework must ensure the bank’s risk profile is easily distinguished and separate from parent for risk management purposes. Under the proposed guidelines, the board is required to have two members who are independent of the bank and parent company management. The board is responsible for ensuring the risk governance framework meets the standards in the OCC’s guidelines, providing active oversight and credible challenge to management’s recommendations and decisions, and ensuring that the parent company decisions do not jeopardize the safety and soundness of the bank.

Prompt corrective action and early remediation: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. While these regulations apply only to banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., the Federal Reserve is authorized to take



appropriate action against the parent bank holding company, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co., based on the undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its undercapitalized subsidiary.

In addition, in December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules which provide for early remediation of systemically important financial companies that experience financial weakness. These proposed restrictions could include limits on capital distributions, acquisitions, and requirements to raise additional capital.

Deposit Insurance: The FDIC deposit insurance fund provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, which is funded through assessments on banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. Higher levels of bank failures during the financial crisis dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC. In addition, the amount of FDIC insurance coverage for insured deposits has been increased from $100,000 per depositor to $250,000 per depositor. In light of the increased stress on the deposit insurance fund caused by these developments, and in order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions generally. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC issued a final rule in February 2011 that changes the assessment base from insured deposits to average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity, and changes the assessment rate calculation. These changes became effective on April 1, 2011, and resulted in a substantial increase in the assessments that the Firm’s bank subsidiaries pay annually to the FDIC.

Powers of the FDIC upon insolvency of the Firm or its insured depository institution subsidiaries: Upon the insolvency of an insured depository institution, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the FDIC may be appointed the conservator or receiver under the FDIA. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, where a systemically important financial institution, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co., is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation. In both cases, the FDIC has broad powers to transfer any assets and liabilities without the approval of the institution’s creditors.

Depositor preference:Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative expense and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including public noteholders and depositors in non-U.S. offices. As a result, such persons could receive substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution.  The U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (the “PRA”) has issued a proposal that may require the Firm to either obtain equal treatment for U.K. depositors or “subsidiarize” in the U.K. In September 2013, the FDIC issued a final rule, which clarifies that foreign deposits are












considered deposits under the FDIA only if they are also payable in the United States.

Cross-guarantee:An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another FDIC-insured institution under common control with such institution being “in default” or “in danger of default” (commonly referred to as “cross-guarantee” liability). An FDIC cross-guarantee claim against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against such depository institution.

The Bank Secrecy Act: The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) requires all financial institutions, including banks and securities broker-dealers, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The BSA includes a variety of record-keeping and reporting requirements (such as cash and suspicious activity reporting), as well as due diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. The Firm has established a global anti-money laundering program in order to comply with BSA requirements.

Regulation by Federal Reserve: The Federal Reserve acts as an “umbrella regulator” and certain of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional authorities based on the particular activities of those subsidiaries. For example, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are regulated by the OCC. See “Other supervision and regulation” on pages7–8for a further description of the regulatory supervision to which the Firm’s subsidiaries are subject.

Holding company as source of strength for bank subsidiaries: JPMorgan Chase & Co. is required to serve as a source of financial strength for its depository institution subsidiaries and to commit resources to support those subsidiaries.

Restrictions on transactions with affiliates: The bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, and certain other transactions with, the Firm and certain other affiliates, and on investments in stock or securities of JPMorgan Chase and those affiliates. These restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase and other affiliates from borrowing from a bank subsidiary unless the loans are secured in specified amounts and are subject to certain other limits. For more information, see Note 27 on page316. Effective in 2012, the Dodd-Frank Act extended such restrictions to derivatives and securities lending transactions. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker Rule imposes similar restrictions on transactions between banking entities, such as JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries, and hedge funds or private equity funds for which the banking entity serves as the investment manager, investment advisor or sponsor.



CFPB and other consumer regulations: The activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. as consumer lenders also are subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice, Electronic Funds Transfer and CARD acts, as well as various state laws. These statutes impose requirements on consumer loan origination and collection practices.

The CFPB issued final regulations regarding mortgages, which became effective January 10, 2014, and which will prohibit mortgage servicers from beginning foreclosure proceedings until a mortgage loan is 120 days delinquent. During this period, the borrower may apply for a loan modification or other option and the servicer cannot begin foreclosure until the application has been addressed. The CFPB issued another final regulation which became effective January 10, 2014, imposing an “ability to repay” requirement for residential mortgage loans. A creditor (or its assignee) will be liable to the borrower for damages if the creditor fails to make a “good faith and reasonable determination of a borrower’s reasonable ability to repay as of consummation.” Borrowers can sue the creditor or assignee for up to three years after closing, and can raise an ability to repay claim against the servicer as a set off at any point during the loan’s life if in foreclosure. A “Qualified Mortgage” as defined in the regulation is generally protected from such suits.

On April 22, 2013, the OCC issued guidance regarding the obligation of servicers to track loans scheduled for foreclosure sale within 60 days and to confirm certain information prior to proceeding with the scheduled sale. The Firm has adopted procedures designed to effect compliance with this guidance.

On March 21, 2013, the CFPB issued a bulletin regarding “Indirect Auto Lending and Compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act,” in which it declared that a purchaser of automobile loans (“indirect lender”) from automobile dealers may be liable for Equal Credit Opportunity Act violations based on dealer specific and portfolio wide disparities, on a prohibited basis, that result from allowing dealers to mark up the interest rate offered to consumers by indirect lenders and allowing the dealers a share of the increased revenue. The bulletin imposes significant dealer education and monitoring requirements on these indirect lenders if they continue allowing discretionary dealer mark-ups. Alternatively, the bulletin indicates that a flat fee arrangement would be acceptable.  The Firm has adopted a dealer education and monitoring program to address the concerns raised in the bulletin.

Other supervision and regulation: The Firm’s banks and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries are subject to direct supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities (some of which are considered “functional regulators” under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act). JPMorgan Chase’s national bank subsidiaries, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are subject to








Part I



supervision and regulation by the OCC and, in certain matters, by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC. Supervision and regulation by the responsible regulatory agency generally includes comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects of the relevant bank’s business and condition, stress tests of banks and imposition of periodic reporting requirements and limitations on investments, among other powers.

The Firm conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the United States through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of which are subject to regulations of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the New York Stock Exchange, among others. The Firm conducts similar securities activities outside the United States subject to local regulatory requirements. In the United Kingdom, those activities are conducted by J.P. Morgan Securities plc, which is regulated by the PRA (a subsidiary of the Bank of England which has responsibility for prudential regulation of banks and other systemically important institutions) and the Financial Conduct Authority (which regulates prudential matters for other firms and conduct matters for all participants). JPMorgan Chase mutual funds also are subject to regulation by the SEC. The Firm has subsidiaries that are members of futures exchanges in the United States and abroad and are registered accordingly.

In the United States, two subsidiaries are registered as futures commission merchants, and other subsidiaries are either registered with the CFTC as commodity pool operators and commodity trading advisors or exempt from such registration. These CFTC-registered subsidiaries are also members of the National Futures Association. The Firm’s U.S. energy business is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. It is also subject to other extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental and other governmental regulation both in the United States and other jurisdictions globally.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC and SEC are the regulators of the Firm’s derivatives businesses.  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities plc and J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers. The Firm expects that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities plc may also need to register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers.

The types of activities in which the non-U.S. branches of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the international subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve. Those non-U.S. branches and international subsidiaries also are subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.

Under the requirements imposed by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are required periodically to disclose to their retail customers the Firm’s policies and practices with respect to the sharing of nonpublic customer information with JPMorgan Chase



affiliates and others, and the confidentiality and security of that information. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, retail customers also must be given the opportunity to “opt out” of information-sharing arrangements with non-affiliates, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.

Significant international regulatory initiatives:The EU  has created a European Systemic Risk Board which monitors financial stability, together with a framework of European Supervisory Agencies which oversees the regulation of financial institutions. In addition, the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (“G-20”) formed the FSB. At both G-20 and EU levels, various proposals are under consideration to address risks associated with global financial institutions. Some of the initiatives adopted include increased capital requirements for certain trading instruments or exposures and compensation limits on certain employees located in affected countries.

In the EU, there is an extensive and complex program of proposed regulatory enhancement which reflects, in part, the EU’s commitments to policies of the G-20 together with other plans specific to the EU. This program includes EMIR, which will require, among other things, the central clearing of standardized derivatives and which will be phased in by 2015; and MiFID II, which gives effect to the G-20 commitment to on-venue trading of derivatives and also includes requirements for pre- and post-trade transparency and a significant reconfiguration of the regulatory supervision of execution venues.

The EU is also currently considering or executing upon significant revisions to laws covering: depositary activities; credit rating activities; resolution of banks, investment firms and market infrastructures; anti-money-laundering controls; data security and privacy; and corporate governance in financial firms, together with implementation in the EU of the Basel III capital standards.

Following the issuance of the Report of the High Level Expert Group on Reforming the Structure of the EU Banking Sector (the “Liikanen Group”), the EU has proposed legislation providing for a proprietary trading ban and mandatory separation of other trading activities within certain banks, while various EU Member States have separately enacted similar measures. In the U.K., the Independent Commission on Banking (the “Vickers Commission”) proposed certain provisions, which have now been enacted by Parliament and upon which detailed implementing requirements are expected during 2014, that mandate the separation (or “ring-fencing”) of deposit-taking activities from securities trading and other analogous activities within banks, subject to certain exemptions. The legislation includes the supplemental recommendation of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards (the “Tyrie Commission”) that such ring-fences should be “electrified” by the imposition of mandatory forced separation on banking institutions that are deemed to test the limits of the safeguards. Parallel but distinct provisions












have been enacted by the French and German governments, and others are under consideration in other countries. Further, the EU is in the process of developing a “Banking Union” institutional and legislative framework, comprising central supervision of systemic institutions by the European Central Bank, and a Single Resolution Mechanism for resolving failing banks alongside the recently-agreed Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive. These measures may separately or taken together have significant implications for the Firm's organizational structure in Europe, as well as its permitted activities and capital deployment in the EU.



