ITEM 1: BUSINESS





Overview

JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”) is a financial holding company incorporated
under Delaware law in 1968. JPMorgan Chase is one of the largest banking institutions in the United
States of America (“U.S.”), with $2.1 trillion in assets, $176.1 billion in stockholders’ equity
and operations in more than 60 countries.

JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association
(“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), a national bank with U.S. branches in 23 states, and
Chase Bank USA, National Association (“Chase Bank USA, N.A.”), a national bank that
is the Firm’s credit card–issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC (“JPMorgan Securities”), the Firm’s U.S. investment banking firm. The bank
and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches
and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks.

The Firm’s website is www.jpmorganchase.com. JPMorgan Chase makes available free of charge, through
its website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after it
electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Firm has adopted, and posted on its website, a Code of Ethics
for its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and
other senior financial officers.



Business segments

JPMorgan Chase’s activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into six business
segments, as well as Corporate/Private Equity. The Firm’s wholesale businesses comprise the
Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management segments.
The Firm’s consumer businesses comprise the Retail Financial Services and Card Services segments.

A description of the Firm’s business segments and the products and services they provide to their
respective client bases is provided in the “Business segment results” section of Management’s
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”), beginning on
page 67 and in Note 34 on pages 290–291.



Competition

JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in a highly competitive environment.
Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks,
hedge funds, commodity trading companies, private equity firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, credit card companies, mortgage banking
companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile financing companies,
leasing companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial
services and

advisory companies. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the
quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price.
Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies
served. With respect to some of its geographies and products, JPMorgan Chase competes globally;
with respect to others, the Firm competes on a regional basis. The Firm’s ability to compete also
depends on its ability to attract and retain its professional and other personnel, and on its
reputation.

The financial services industry has experienced consolidation and convergence in recent years, as
financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial products and services have merged
and, in some cases, failed. This convergence trend is expected to continue. Consolidation could
result in competitors of JPMorgan Chase gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a
broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. It is likely that competition will
become even more intense as the Firm’s businesses continue to compete with other financial
institutions that are or may become larger or better capitalized, or that may have a stronger local
presence in certain geographies.



Supervision and regulation

The Firm is subject to regulation under state and federal laws in the United States, as well as the
applicable laws of each of the various jurisdictions outside the United States in which the Firm
does business.

Recent events affecting the Firm:On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) which will make significant
structural reforms to the financial services industry. These changes include the following:

•Volcker Rule. The Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities, such as
JPMorgan Chase, from engaging in certain proprietary trading activities and restricts their
ownership of, investment in or sponsorship of, hedge funds and private equity funds.

•Derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act requires comprehensive regulation of the over-the-counter
derivatives market, including strict capital and margin requirements, central clearing of
standardized over-the-counter derivatives, and heightened supervision of over-the-counter
derivatives dealers and major market participants, including JPMorgan Chase. The Dodd-Frank
Act also requires banking entities, such as JPMorgan Chase, to significantly restructure their
derivatives businesses, including changing the legal entities through which such businesses
are conducted.

•Debit Interchange. The Federal Reserve is required to restrict the interchange fees
payable on debit card transactions.

•Capital. The treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital for regulatory
capital purposes will be phased out over a three year period, beginning in 2013. For more
information, see “Capital requirements” below.

•FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund Assessments. The FDIC is required to amend its regulations to
revise the assessment base for the calculation of banking industry assessments,









Part I

which support the Deposit Insurance
Fund. For more information, see “Deposit Insurance” below.

•Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes a Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection having broad authority to regulate providers of credit, payment
and other consumer financial products and services, and may narrow the scope of federal
preemption of state consumer laws and expand the authority of state attorneys general to bring
actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation.

•Heightened prudential standards for systemically important financial institutions. The
Dodd-Frank Act creates a structure to regulate systemically important financial companies, and
subjects them to heightened prudential standards, including liquidity, risk management,
resolution plan, concentration limit, and credit exposure report requirements. Bank holding
companies with over $50 billion in assets, including JPMorgan Chase, are considered
systemically important. If the regulators determine that the size or scope of activities of
the company pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the company or the financial
stability of the United States, the regulators have the power to require such companies to
sell or transfer assets and terminate activities.

•Concentration limits. The Dodd-Frank Act restricts acquisitions by financial companies if,
as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed
10% of the total liabilities of all financial companies.

The Dodd-Frank Act instructs U.S. federal banking and other regulatory agencies to conduct
approximately 285 rulemakings and 130 studies and reports. These regulatory agencies include the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”); the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”); the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”); the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”); the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(the “FDIC”); the new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “CFPB”); and the new Financial
Stability Oversight Council (the “FSOC”).

Other proposals have been made internationally, including additional capital and liquidity
requirements that will apply to non-U.S. subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase, such as J.P. Morgan
Securities Ltd., the Firm’s U.K. broker-dealer subsidiary.

It is not clear at this time what form all of the rulemakings will take, or what new proposals may
be made. The description below summarizes the current regulatory structure in which the Firm
operates, which could change significantly and, accordingly, the structure of the Firm and the
products and services it offers could also change significantly as a result.

Permissible business activities:JPMorgan Chase elected to become a financial holding company as of
March 13, 2000, pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”). Under
regulations implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company ceases to meet certain capital or management standards, the Federal
Reserve Board may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding
company and place limitations on its ability to conduct

the broader financial activities
permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board may require
divestiture of the holding company’s depository institutions if the deficiencies persist. The
regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding
company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Federal
Reserve Board must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any
additional activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not
financial holding companies. So long as the depository-institution subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase
meet the capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act requirements, the Firm is permitted to
conduct the broader activities permitted under GLBA.

Financial holding companies and bank holding companies are required to obtain the approval of the
Federal Reserve Board before they may acquire more than five percent of the voting shares of an
unaffiliated bank. Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of
1994 (the “Riegle-Neal Act”), the Federal Reserve Board may approve an application for such an
acquisition without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited under the law of any state,
provided that the acquiring bank holding company, before or after the acquisition, does not control
more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. or
more than 30% (or such greater or lesser amounts as permitted under state law) of the total
deposits of insured depository institutions in the state in which the acquired bank has its home
office or a branch. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts acquisitions by financial companies
if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed 10%
of the total liabilities of all financial companies.

Regulation by Federal Reserve Board:The Federal Reserve Board acts as an “umbrella regulator” and
certain of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional authorities based on
the particular activities of those subsidiaries. For example, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase
Bank USA, N.A., are regulated by the OCC. See “Other supervision and regulation” below for a
further description of the regulatory supervision to which the Firm’s subsidiaries are subject. In
addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve will remain the regulator of JPMorgan
Chase, and will be imposing heightened prudential standards in its role as the regulator of
systemically important financial institutions.

Dividend restrictions:Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national
banks. Dividends payable by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., as national bank
subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase, are limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a “recent
earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not
be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined with the
retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the national bank obtains the approval of
the OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of a bank’s
“undivided profits.” See Note 28 on page 273 for the amount of dividends that the Firm’s principal









bank subsidiaries could pay, at January 1, 2011, to their respective bank holding
companies without the approval of their banking regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and
the FDIC have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations
they supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its bank and bank holding company subsidiaries, if, in
the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound
practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.

Moreover, the Federal Reserve Board has issued supervisory guidance requiring bank holding
companies, such as JPMorgan Chase, to consult with Federal Reserve Board staff before taking
actions, such as increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs or redeeming
or repurchasing capital instruments. Such guidance provides for a supervisory capital assessment
program that outlines Federal Reserve Board expectations concerning the processes that such bank
holding companies should have in place to ensure they hold adequate capital under adverse
conditions to maintain ready access to funding. The procedures require the implementation of a
comprehensive capital plan and demonstration that the bank holding company will meet proposed Basel
III regulatory capital standards, including the Basel III fully phased-in 7% tier 1 common equity
target after giving effect to proposed dividend increases or other capital actions. The Firm is
currently undergoing a capital assessment review pursuant to this supervisory program.

Capital requirements:Federal banking regulators have adopted risk-based capital and leverage
guidelines that require the Firm’s capital-to-assets ratios to meet certain minimum standards.

The
risk-based capital ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified off–balance sheet
financial instruments into risk-weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required
for the categories perceived as representing greater risk. Under the guidelines, capital is divided
into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed
the amount of Tier 1 capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Under
the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital
to risk-weighted assets) of 8% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 4%. For a further description of
these guidelines, see Note 29 on pages 273–274.

The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The
leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets. The minimum
leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that are considered “strong” under Federal Reserve
Board guidelines or which have implemented the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-based capital measure
for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. Bank
holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon
their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.

The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the federal banking agencies follow the
Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel I”). In 2004, the Basel
Committee published a revision to the Accord (“Basel II”). The goal of the Basel II Framework is to
provide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk management
practices among large, internationally active banking operations. In December 2010, the Basel
Committee finalized further revisions to the Accord (“Basel III”) which narrowed the definition of
capital, increased capital requirements for specific exposures, introduced short-term liquidity
coverage and term funding standards, and established an international leverage ratio. In addition,
the U.S. federal banking agencies have published for public comment proposed risk-based capital
floors pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act to establish a permanent Basel I floor
under Basel II/Basel III calculations. For further description of these capital requirements, see
pages 102–104.

Effective January 1, 2008, the SEC authorized JPMorgan Securities to use the alternative method of
computing net capital for broker/dealers that are part of Consolidated Supervised Entities as
defined by SEC rules. Accordingly, JPMorgan Securities may calculate deductions for market risk
using its internal market risk models.

For additional information regarding the Firm’s regulatory capital, see Regulatory capital on pages
102–104.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act:The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991 requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective
action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital
adequacy standards.

The regulations apply only to banks and not to bank holding companies, such as JPMorgan Chase.
However, the Federal Reserve Board is authorized to take appropriate action against the bank
holding company based on the undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances,
the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration
plan for its undercapitalized subsidiary.

Deposit Insurance:The FDIC deposit insurance fund provides insurance coverage for certain
deposits, which insurance is funded through assessments on banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Chase Bank USA, N.A. Higher levels of bank failures over the past three years have
dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In
addition, the amount of FDIC insurance coverage for insured deposits has been increased generally
from $100,000 per depositor to $250,000 per depositor, and until January 1, 2013, the coverage for non-interest bearing demand deposits is unlimited. In light of the increased
stress on the deposit insurance fund caused by these developments, and in order to maintain a
strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC
imposed a special assessment in June 2009, has increased assessment rates of insured institutions
generally, and required insured institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 the premiums that are
expected to become due over the next three years.









Part I

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to amend its regulations to change the base for calculating
assessments from deposits to assets minus tangible equity. In February 2011, the FDIC issued a
final rule changing the assessment base and the method for calculating the assessment rate. These
changes are expected to result in an increase in the assessments that the Firm’s bank
subsidiaries pay to the deposit insurance fund.

Powers of the FDIC upon insolvency of an insured depository institution or the Firm:Upon the
insolvency of an insured depository institution, the FDIC will be appointed the conservator or
receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. In such an insolvency, the FDIC has the power:

•to transfer any assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the
institution’s creditors;

•to enforce the terms of the institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms; or

•to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the institution is a party.

The above provisions would be applicable to obligations and liabilities of JPMorgan Chase’s
subsidiaries that are insured depository institutions, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase
Bank USA, N.A., including, without limitation, obligations under senior or subordinated debt issued
by those banks to investors (referred to below as “public noteholders”) in the public markets.

Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative
expense and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC) have priority
over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including public noteholders and
depositors in non-U.S. offices.

An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected to be
incurred by the FDIC in connection with another FDIC-insured institution under common control with
such institution being “in default” or “in danger of default” (commonly referred to as
“cross-guarantee” liability). An FDIC cross-guarantee claim against a depository institution is
generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against
such depository institution.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, where a systemically important financial institution, such as JPMorgan
Chase, is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct
an orderly liquidation of such systemically important financial institution. The FDIC is in the
process of proposing rules to implement its orderly liquidation authority. While the FDIC may have powers as receiver similar to those described above, the details of those powers are the subject of
the proposed rules.

The Bank Secrecy Act:The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) requires all financial institutions, including
banks and securities broker-dealers, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of
internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
The BSA includes a variety of recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as cash and suspicious
activity reporting), as well as due diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. The
Firm has established a global anti-money laundering program in order to comply with BSA
requirements.

Other supervision and regulation:Under current Federal Reserve Board policy, JPMorgan Chase is
expected to act as a source of financial strength to its bank subsidiaries and to commit resources
to support these subsidiaries in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy.
Effective July 2011, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act codify the Federal Reserve Board’s policy,
and require a bank holding company to serve as a source of strength for any depository institution
subsidiary. However, because GLBA provides for functional regulation of financial holding company
activities by various regulators, GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring payment
by a holding company or subsidiary to a depository institution if the functional regulator of the
payor objects to such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve Board could instead require the
divestiture of the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the
divestiture.

The bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law
on extensions of credit to, and certain other transactions with, the Firm and certain other
affiliates, and on investments in stock or securities of JPMorgan Chase and those affiliates.
These restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase and other affiliates from borrowing from a bank
subsidiary unless the loans are secured in specified amounts and are subject to certain other
limits. For more information, see Note 28 on page 273. Effective in 2012, the Dodd-Frank Act
extends such restrictions to derivatives and securities lending transactions. In addition, the
Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker Rule imposes similar restrictions on transactions between banking
entities, such as JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries, and hedge funds or private equity funds for
which the banking entity serves as the investment manager, investment advisor or sponsor.

The Firm’s banks and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries are subject to direct supervision and
regulation by various other federal and state authorities (some of which are considered “functional
regulators” under GLBA). JPMorgan Chase’s national bank subsidiaries, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC and, in
certain matters, by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. Supervision and regulation by the
responsible regulatory agency generally includes comprehensive annual reviews of all major aspects
of the relevant bank’s business and condition, and imposition of periodic reporting requirements
and limitations on investments, among other powers.

The Firm conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the United States
through JPMorgan Securities and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of which are subject to
regulations of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the New York Stock
Exchange, among others. The Firm conducts similar securities activities outside the United States
subject to local regulatory requirements. In the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), those activities are
conducted by J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd., which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority of
the U.K. The operations of JPMorgan Chase mutual funds also are subject to regulation by the SEC.

The Firm has subsidiaries that are members of futures exchanges in the United States and abroad and
are registered accordingly.









In the United States, three subsidiaries are registered as futures
commission merchants, and other subsidiaries are either registered with the CFTC as commodity pool
operators and commodity trading advisors or exempt from such registration. These CFTC-registered
subsidiaries are also members of the National Futures Association. The Firm’s U.S. energy business
is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. It is also subject to other
extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental and other governmental regulation both in
the U.S. and other jurisdictions globally.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC and SEC will be the regulators of the Firm’s derivatives
businesses. Certain of the Firm’s subsidiaries will likely be required to register with the CFTC
and SEC as swaps dealers or security-based swaps dealers.

The types of activities in which the non-U.S. branches of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the
international subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed
by the Federal Reserve Board. Those non-U.S. branches and international subsidiaries also are
subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.

The activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. as consumer lenders also are
subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws, including the Truth-in-Lending, Equal Credit
Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice, Electronic Funds Transfer and
CARD acts,as well as various state laws. These statutes impose requirements on consumer loan
origination and collection practices. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the new CFPB will be responsible
for rulemaking and enforcement pursuant to such statutes.

Under the requirements imposed by GLBA, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are required
periodically to disclose to their retail customers the Firm’s policies and practices with respect
to the sharing of nonpublic customer information with JPMorgan Chase affiliates and others, and the
confidentiality and security of that information. Under GLBA, retail customers also must be given
the opportunity to “opt out” of information-sharing arrangements with nonaffiliates, subject to
certain exceptions set forth in GLBA.



