ITEM 1: BUSINESS



Overview

JPMorgan Chase & Co.,(“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”)a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in theUnited States of America (“U.S.”), with operations worldwide; the Firm had$2.6 trillionin assets and$232.1 billionin stockholders’ equity as ofDecember 31, 2014.The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world’s most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.

JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), a national banking association with U.S. branches in23states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association (“Chase Bank USA, N.A.”), a national banking association that is the Firm’s credit card–issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase’s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (“JPMorgan Securities”), the Firm’s U.S. investment banking firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks. One of the Firm’s principal operating subsidiaries in theUnited Kingdom (“U.K.”)is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.

The Firm’s website is www.jpmorganchase.com. JPMorgan Chase makes available free of charge, through its website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Firm has adopted, and posted on its website, a Code of Ethics for its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and other finance professionals of the Firm.



Business segments

JPMorgan Chase’s activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, intofourmajor reportable business segments, as well as a Corporatesegment. The Firm’s consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking segment. The Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, and Asset Management segments comprise the Firm’s wholesale businesses.



A description of the Firm’s business segments and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases is provided in the “Business segment results” section of Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”), beginning on page64and in Note 33.



Competition

JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, hedge funds, commodity trading companies, private equity firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, investment managers, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price. Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. With respect to some of its geographies and products, JPMorgan Chase competes globally; with respect to others, the Firm competes on a national or regional basis. The Firm’s ability to compete also depends on its ability to attract and retain professional and other personnel, and on its reputation.

The financial services industry has experienced consolidation and convergence in recent years, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial products and services have merged and, in some cases, failed. This consolidation is expected to continue. Consolidation could result in competitors of JPMorgan Chase gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. It is likely that competition will become even more intense as the Firm’s businesses continue to compete with other financial institutions that may have a stronger local presence in certain geographies or that operate under different rules and regulatory regimes than the Firm.



Supervision and regulation

The Firm is subject to regulation under state and federal laws in the U.S., as well as the applicable laws of each of the various jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Firm does business.

As a result of rule-making following the enactment of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) and other regulatory reforms enacted and proposed in the U.S. and abroad, the Firm is currently experiencing a period of unprecedented change in regulation and such changes could have a significant impact on how the Firm conducts business. The Firm continues to work diligently in assessing the regulatory changes it is facing, and is devoting substantial resources to implementing all the new regulations, while, at the same time, best meeting the needs and expectations of its








Part I



customers, clients and shareholders. The combined effect of numerous rule-makings by multiple governmental agencies and regulators, and the potential conflicts or inconsistencies among such rules, present challenges and risks to the Firm’s business and operations. Given the current status of the regulatory developments, the Firm cannot currently quantify the possible effects on its business and operations of all of the significant changes that are currently underway. For more information, see Risk Factors onpages 8–17.

Financial holding company:

Consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve. As a bank holding company (“BHC”) and a financial holding company, JPMorgan Chase is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). The Federal Reserve acts as an “umbrella regulator” and certain of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries are regulated directly by additional authorities based on the particular activities of those subsidiaries. For example, JPMorgan Chase’s national bank subsidiaries, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and, with respect to certain matters, by the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”). Non-bank subsidiaries, such as the Firm’s U.S. broker-dealers, are subject to supervision and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), and with respect to certain futures-related and swaps-related activities, by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). See Securities and broker-dealer regulation, Investment management regulation and Derivatives regulation below.

As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, JPMorgan Chase is, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, additional limitations on the way it conducts its businesses, and heightened capital and liquidity requirements. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), which was created by the Dodd-Frank Act, has rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws.

Scope of permissible business activities.The Bank Holding Company Act generally restricts BHCs from engaging in business activities other than the business of banking and certain closely related activities. Financial holding companies generally can engage in a broader range of financial activities than are otherwise permissible for BHCs, as long as they continue to meet the eligibility requirements for financial holding companies (including requirements that the financial holding company and each of its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries maintain their status as “well capitalized” and “well managed”). The broader range of permissible activities for financial holding companies includes underwriting, dealing and making markets in



securities, and making merchant banking investments in non-financial companies.

The Federal Reserve has the authority to limit a financial holding company’s ability to conduct activities that would otherwise be permissible if the financial holding company or any of its depositary institution subsidiaries ceases to meet the applicable eligibility requirements. The Federal Reserve may also impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and may require divestiture of the holding company’s depository institutions if the deficiencies persist. Federal regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Federal Reserve must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies. In addition, a financial holding company must obtain Federal Reserve approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the U.S. and internationally, as further described under Regulation of acquisitions below.

Activities restrictions under the Volcker Rule.Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the “Volcker Rule”) prohibits banking entities, including the Firm, from engaging in certain “proprietary trading” activities, subject to exceptions for underwriting, market-making, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. In addition, the Volcker Rule limits the sponsorship, and investment in, “covered funds” (as defined by the Rule) and imposes limits on certain transactions between the Firm and its sponsored funds (see Investment management regulation below). The Volcker Rule requires banking entities to establish comprehensive compliance programs designed to help ensure and monitor compliance with the restrictions under the Volcker Rule, including, in order to distinguish permissible from impermissible risk-taking activities, the measurement and monitoring of seven metrics. The Firm has taken significant steps to comply with the Volcker Rule. However, given the complexity of the new framework, and the fact that many provisions of the Rule still require further regulatory guidance, the full impact of the Volcker Rule is still uncertain and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight.

Capital and liquidity requirements.The Federal Reserve establishes capital and leverage requirements for the Firm and evaluates its compliance with such capital requirements. The OCC establishes similar capital and leverage requirements for the Firm’s national banking subsidiaries. For more information about the applicable requirements relating to risk-based capital and leverage in the U.S. under the Basel Committee’s most recent capital framework (“Basel III”), see Regulatory capital onpages 146–153and Note 28. It is likely that the banking supervisors will continue to refine and enhance the Basel III capital framework for financial institutions. Recent proposals being contemplated by the Basel Committee










include, among others, revisions to market risk capital for trading books, credit risk capital calculations, the measurement methodology to calculate counterparty credit risk and revisions to the securitization framework. After a proposal is finalized by the Basel Committee, U.S. banking regulators would then need to propose requirements applicable to U.S. financial institutions. Under Basel III, bank holding companies and banks are required to measure their liquidity against two specific liquidity tests: the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) and the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”). For additional information on these ratios, see Liquidity Risk Management onpages 156–160.

Stress tests.

th

. Results will be published by the Federal Reserve by June 30

th

, with disclosures of results by BHCs to follow within 15 days. Also commencing in 2016, the mid-cycle capital stress test submissions will be due October 5

th

and BHCs will publish results by November 4

th

.

For additional information on the Firm’s CCAR, see Regulatory capital onpages 146–153.

Enhanced prudential standards.The Dodd-Frank Act established a new oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), which (among other things) recommends prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve for systemically important financial institutions. BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, such as JPMorgan Chase, became automatically subject to the heightened prudential standards. The Federal Reserve has adopted several rules to



implement certain of the heightened prudential standards contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act, including final rules relating to risk management and corporate governance of subject bank holding companies. Beginning January 1, 2015, the rules require BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management standards, including a buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected funding needs for 30 days, and increased involvement by boards of directors in risk management. Several additional proposed rules are still being considered, including rules relating to single-counterparty credit limits and an “early remediation” framework to address financial distress or material management weaknesses.

Risk reporting.In January 2013, the Basel Committee issued new regulations relating to risk aggregation and reporting. Under these regulations, the banking institution’s risk governance framework must encompass risk-data aggregation and reporting, and data aggregation must be highly automated and allow for minimal manual intervention. The regulations also impose higher standards for the accuracy, comprehensiveness, granularity and timely distribution of data reporting, and call for regular supervisory review of the banking institution’s risk aggregation and reporting. Global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”) will be required to comply with these new standards by January 1, 2016.

Orderly liquidation authority and other financial stability measures.As a BHC with assets of $50 billion or more, the Firm is required to submit annually to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material distress or failure (a “resolution plan”). The FDIC also requires each insured depositary institution with $50 billion or more in assets to provide a resolution plan. For more information about the Firm’s resolution plan, see Risk Factors onpages 8–17. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including JPMorgan Chase and certain of its subsidiaries, can be subjected to resolution under a new “orderly liquidation authority.” The U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President of the United States, must first make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations, and action must be recommended by the FDIC and the Federal Reserve. Absent such actions, the Firm, as a BHC, would remain subject to resolution under the Bankruptcy Code. In December 2013, the FDIC released its “single point of entry” strategy for resolution of systemically important financial institutions under the orderly liquidation authority. This strategy seeks to keep operating subsidiaries of the BHC open and impose losses on shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority.

Regulators in the U.S. and abroad continue to be focused on measures to address “too big to fail,” and to provide safeguards so that, if a large financial institution does fail, it can be resolved without the use of public funds. Higher








Part I



capital surcharges on G-SIBs, requirements recently introduced by the Federal Reserve that certain large bank holding companies maintain a minimum amount of long-term debt to facilitate orderly resolution of those firms, and the recently adopted ISDA protocol relating to the “close-out” of derivatives transactions during the resolution of a large cross-border financial institution, are examples of initiatives to address “too big to fail.” For further information on the potential impact of the G-SIB framework and Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (“TLAC”), see Regulatory capital onpages 146–153, and on the ISDA close-out protocol, see Derivatives regulation below.

Holding company as source of strength for bank subsidiaries. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is required to serve as a source of financial strength for its depository institution subsidiaries and to commit resources to support those subsidiaries. This support may be required by the Federal Reserve at times when the Firm might otherwise determine not to provide it.

Regulation of acquisitions.Financial holding companies and bank holding companies are required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than 5% of the voting shares of an unaffiliated bank. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts acquisitions by financial companies if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed 10% of the total liabilities of all financial companies. This could have the effect of allowing a non-U.S. financial company to grow to hold significantly more than 10% of the U.S. market without exceeding the concentration limit. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Firm must provide written notice to the Federal Reserve prior to acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company with over $10 billion in assets that is engaged in activities that are “financial in nature”.

JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiary banks:

The Firm’s two primary subsidiary banks, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., are FDIC-insured national banks regulated by the OCC. As national banks, the activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. are limited to those specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and related interpretations by the OCC.

FDIC deposit insurance.The FDIC deposit insurance fund provides insurance coverage for certain deposits, which is funded through assessments on banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. Changes in the methodology of the calculation of such assessments, resulting from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, significantly increased the assessments the Firm’s bank subsidiaries pay annually to the FDIC, and future FDIC rule-making could further increase such assessments.

FDIC powers upon a bank insolvency. Upon the insolvency of an insured depository institution, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the FDIC may be appointed the conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”). In addition, as noted above, where a systemically important financial institution, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co., is in



default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation. In both cases, the FDIC has broad powers to transfer any assets and liabilities without the approval of the institution’s creditors.

Cross-guarantee. An FDIC-insured depository institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another FDIC-insured institution under common control with such institution being “in default” or “in danger of default” (commonly referred to as “cross-guarantee” liability). An FDIC cross-guarantee claim against a depository institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates against such depository institution.

Prompt corrective action and early remediation. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. While these regulations apply only to banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action against the parent BHC, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co., based on the undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its undercapitalized subsidiary.

OCC Heightened Standards.The OCC has released final regulations and guidelines establishing heightened standards for large banks. The guidelines establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework for banks. While the bank may use certain components of the parent company’s risk governance framework, the framework must ensure that the bank’s risk profile is easily distinguished and separate from the parent for risk management purposes. The bank’s board or risk committee is responsible for approving the bank’s risk governance framework, providing active oversight of the bank’s risk-taking activities and holding management accountable for adhering to the risk governance framework.

Restrictions on transactions with affiliates. The bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, and certain other transactions with, JPMorgan Chase and certain other affiliates, and on investments in stock or securities of JPMorgan Chase and affiliates. These restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase and other affiliates from borrowing from a bank subsidiary unless the loans are secured in specified amounts and are subject to certain other limits. For more information, see Note 27. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, these restrictions were extended to derivatives and securities lending transactions. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker Rule imposes similar restrictions on transactions between banking entities, such as JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries, and hedge funds or










private equity funds for which the banking entity serves as the investment manager, investment advisor or sponsor.

Dividend restrictions.Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. See Note 27 for the amount of dividends that the Firm’s principal bank subsidiaries could pay, at January 1, 2015, to their respective bank holding companies without the approval of their banking regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its bank and BHC subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.

Depositor preference. Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative expense and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including public noteholders and depositors in non-U.S. offices. As a result, such persons could receive substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution. The U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (the “PRA”) has issued a proposal that may require the Firm to either obtain equal treatment for U.K. depositors or “subsidiarize” in the U.K. In September 2013, the FDIC issued a final rule, which clarifies that foreign deposits are considered deposits under the FDIA only if they are also payable in the U.S.

CFPB regulation and supervision, and other consumer regulations.The CFPB has rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over JPMorgan Chase and its national bank subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., with respect to federal consumer protection laws, including laws relating to fair lending and the prohibition under the Dodd-Frank Act of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products and services. These laws include the Truth-in-Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity (“ECOA”), Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice, Electronic Funds Transfer, Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure (“CARD”) and Home Mortgage Disclosure Acts. The CFPB also has authority to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. The CFPB has issued informal guidance on a variety of topics (such as the collection of consumer debts and credit card marketing practices) and has taken enforcement actions against certain financial institutions. Much of the CFPB’s initial rulemaking efforts have addressed mortgage related topics, including ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards, loan originator compensation standards, high-cost mortgage requirements, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act requirements, appraisal and



escrow standards and requirements for higher-priced mortgages. Other areas of recent focus include “add-on” products, matters involving consumer populations considered vulnerable by the CFPB (such as students), and the furnishing of credit scores to individuals. The CFPB has been focused on automobile dealer discretionary interest rate markups, and on holding the Firm and other purchasers of such contracts (“indirect lenders”) responsible under the ECOA for statistical disparities in markups charged by the dealers to borrowers of different races or ethnicities. The Firm has adopted programs to address these risks, including an active dealer education, monitoring and review programs.

The activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. as consumer lenders also are subject to regulation under various state statutes which are enforced by the respective state’s Attorney General.

Securities and broker-dealer regulation:

The Firm conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the U.S. through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of which are subject to regulations of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the New York Stock Exchange, among others. The Firm conducts similar securities activities outside the U.S. subject to local regulatory requirements. In the United Kingdom, those activities are conducted by J.P. Morgan Securities plc, which is regulated by the PRA (a subsidiary of the Bank of England which has responsibility for prudential regulation of banks and other systemically important institutions) and the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) (which regulates prudential matters for other firms and conduct matters for all market participants). Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customer’s funds, the financing of clients’ purchases, capital structure, record-keeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers and employees. For information on the net capital of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp., and the applicable requirements relating to risk-based capital for J.P. Morgan Securities plc, see Regulatory capital on

pages 146–153

. Future rule-making mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act will involve (among other things) the standard of care applicable to broker-dealers when dealing with retail customers and additional requirements regarding securitization practices.

Investment management regulation:

The Firm’s investment management business is subject to significant regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets, offerings of funds, marketing activities, transactions among affiliates and management of client funds. Certain of the Firm’s subsidiaries are registered with, and subject to oversight by, the SEC as investment advisers. As such, the Firm’s registered investment advisers are subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed








Part I



under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as various states securities laws. The Firm’s asset management business continues to be affected by ongoing rule-making. In July 2013, the SEC adopted amendments to rules that govern money-market funds, requiring a floating net asset value for institutional prime money market funds. Many of the Volcker Rule regulations regarding “covered funds”, and their impact on the Firm’s asset management activities, particularly the seeding of foreign public funds and the criteria for establishing foreign public funds status, await further guidance from the regulators.

Derivatives regulation:

The Firm, along with 17 other financial institutions, agreed in November 2014 to adhere to the Resolution Stay Protocol developed by the International Swaps and



Derivatives Association, Inc. in response to regulator concerns that the closeout of derivatives transactions during the resolution of a large cross-border financial institution could impede resolution efforts and potentially destabilize markets. The Resolution Stay Protocol provides for the contractual recognition of cross-border stays under various statutory resolution regimes and a contractual stay on certain cross-default rights.

In the U.S., two subsidiaries of the Firm are registered as futures commission merchants, and other subsidiaries are either registered with the CFTC as commodity pool operators and commodity trading advisors or exempt from such registration. These CFTC-registered subsidiaries are also members of the National Futures Association. The Firm’s financial commodities business is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

Data regulation:

The Firm and its subsidiaries also are subject to federal, state and international laws and regulations concerning the use and protection of certain customer, employee and other personal and confidential information, including those imposed by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as well as the EU Data Protection Directive, among others. The Firm was the victim of a cyberattack in 2014 that compromised user contact information for certain customers. For more information relating to this cyberattack, see Operational Risk Management onpages 141–143.

The Bank Secrecy Act:

The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) requires all financial institutions, including banks and securities broker-dealers, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The BSA includes a variety of record-keeping and reporting requirements (such as cash transaction and suspicious activity reporting), as well as due diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. The Firm has established a global anti-money laundering program in order to comply with BSA requirements. In January 2013, the Firm entered into Consent Orders with its banking regulators relating to the Firm’s Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering policies, procedures and controls; the Firm has taken significant steps to modify and enhance its processes and controls with respect to its Anti-Money Laundering procedures and to remediate the issues identified in the Consent Order.

Anti-Corruption:

The Firm is subject to laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, relating to corrupt and illegal payments to government officials and others. The Firm has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws and regulations. Any failure with respect to the Firm’s programs in this area could subject the Firm to substantial liability and regulatory fines. For more information on a










current investigation relating to, among other things, the Firm's hiring of persons referred by government officials and clients, see Note 31.

Compensation practices:

Significant international regulatory initiatives:

The EU operates a European Systemic Risk Board which monitors financial stability, together with a framework of European Supervisory Agencies which oversees the regulation of financial institutions across the 28 Member States. The EU has also created a Single Supervisory Mechanism for the euro-zone, under which the regulation of all banks in that zone will be under the auspices of the European Central Bank, together with a Single Resolution Mechanism and Single Resolution Board, having jurisdiction over bank resolution in the zone. In addition, the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (“G-20”) formed the FSB. At both G-20 and EU levels, various proposals are under consideration to address risks associated with global financial institutions. Some of the initiatives adopted include increased capital requirements for certain trading instruments or exposures and compensation limits on certain employees located in affected countries.

In the EU, there is an extensive and complex program of final and proposed regulatory enhancement which reflects, in part, the EU’s commitments to policies of the G-20 together with other plans specific to the EU. This program includes EMIR, which will require, among other things, the



central clearing of standardized derivatives and which will be phased in by 2015; and MiFID II, which gives effect to the G-20 commitment to trading of derivatives through central clearing houses and exchanges and also includes significantly enhanced requirements for pre- and post-trade transparency and a significant reconfiguration of the regulatory supervision of execution venues.

The EU is also currently considering or executing upon significant revisions to laws covering: depositary activities; credit rating activities; resolution of banks, investment firms and market infrastructures; anti-money-laundering controls; data security and privacy; and corporate governance in financial firms, together with implementation in the EU of the Basel III capital standards.

Following the issuance of the Report of the High Level Expert Group on Reforming the Structure of the EU Banking Sector (the “Liikanen Group”), the EU has proposed legislation providing for a proprietary trading ban and mandatory separation of other trading activities within certain banks, while various EU Member States have separately enacted similar measures. In the U.K., the Independent Commission on Banking (the “Vickers Commission”) proposed certain provisions, which have now been enacted by Parliament and upon which detailed implementing requirements are expected to be finalized during 2015, that mandate the separation (or “ring-fencing”) of deposit-taking activities from securities trading and other analogous activities within banks, subject to certain exemptions. The legislation includes the supplemental recommendation of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards (the “Tyrie Commission”) that such ring-fences should be “electrified” by the imposition of mandatory forced separation on banking institutions that are deemed to test the limits of the safeguards. Parallel but distinct provisions have been enacted by the French and German governments, and others are under consideration in other countries. These measures may separately or taken together have significant implications for the Firm’s organizational structure in Europe, as well as its permitted activities and capital deployment in the EU.










Part I



