ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company.Kellogg Company, founded
in 1906 and incorporated in Delaware in 1922, and its subsidiaries are engaged in the manufacture and marketing of ready-to-eat cereal and convenience foods.

The address of the principal business office of Kellogg Company is One Kellogg Square, P.O. Box 3599, Battle Creek, Michigan 49016-3599. Unless otherwise specified or indicated by the context,
“Kellogg,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Kellogg Company, its divisions and subsidiaries.

Financial Information About Segments.Information on segments is located in Note 16 within Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Principal
Products.Our principal products are ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, such as cookies, crackers, savory snacks, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles
and veggie foods. These products were, as of February 25, 2015, manufactured by us in 20 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries. Our cereal products are generally marketed under theKellogg’sname and are sold to
the grocery trade through direct sales forces for resale to consumers. We use broker and distributor arrangements for certain products. We also generally use these, or similar arrangements, in less-developed market areas or in those market areas
outside of our focus.

We also market cookies, crackers, crisps, and other convenience foods, under brands such asKellogg’s, Keebler,
Cheez-It, Murray, AustinandFamous Amos,to supermarkets in the United States through a direct store-door (DSD) delivery system, although other distribution methods are also used.

Additional information pertaining to the relative sales of our products for the years 2012 through 2014 is located in Note 16 Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, which are included herein under Part II, Item 8.

Raw
Materials.Agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, potato flakes, soy bean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. Cartonboard, corrugated, and
plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. We continually monitor world supplies and prices of such commodities (which include such packaging materials), as well as government trade policies. The cost of such commodities may fluctuate
widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, climate change or other unforeseen circumstances. Continuous efforts are made to maintain and improve the quality and supply of such commodities for purposes of our short-term and
long-term requirements.

The principal ingredients in the products produced by us in the United States include corn grits, wheat and wheat derivatives,
potato flakes, oats, rice, cocoa and chocolate, soybeans and soybean derivatives, various fruits, sweeteners, vegetable oils, dairy products, eggs, and other filling ingredients, which are obtained from various sources. While most of these
ingredients are purchased from sources in the United States, some materials are imported due to regional availability and specification requirements.

We enter into long-term contracts for the materials described in this section and purchase these items on the open market, depending on our view of possible price fluctuations, supply levels, and our relative
negotiating power. While the cost of some of these materials has, and may continue to, increase over time, we believe that we will be able to purchase an adequate supply of these items as needed. As further discussed herein under Part II,
Item 7A, we also use commodity futures and options to hedge some of our costs.

Raw materials and packaging needed for internationally based
operations are available in adequate supply and are sourced both locally and imported from countries other than those where used in manufacturing.

Natural gas and propane are the primary sources of energy used to power processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities, although certain locations
may use oil or propane on a back-up or alternative basis. In addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. As further discussed herein under Part II, Item 7A, we use
over-the-counter commodity price swaps to hedge some of our natural gas costs.

Trademarks and Technology.Generally, our
products are marketed under trademarks we own. Our principal trademarks are our housemarks, brand names, slogans, and designs related to cereals and convenience foods manufactured and marketed by us, and we also grant licenses to third parties to
use these marks on various goods. These trademarks includeKellogg’sfor cereals, convenience foods and our other products, and the brand names of certain ready-to-eat cereals, includingAll-Bran, Apple Jacks, Bran Buds,
Choco Zucaritas, Cocoa Krispies, Complete, Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, Corn Pops, Cracklin’ Oat Bran, Crispix, Crunchmania, Crunchy Nut, Eggo, Kellogg’s FiberPlus, Froot Loops, Kellogg’s Frosted Flakes, Krave, Frosted Krispies,
Frosted Mini-Wheats, Just Right, Kellogg’s Low FatGranola, Mueslix, Pops, Product 19, Kellogg’s Raisin Bran, Raisin Bran Crunch,Rice Krispies, Rice Krispies Treats, Smacks/Honey






Smacks, Smart Start, Kellogg’s Smorz, Special K, Special K Red BerriesandZucaritasin the United States and elsewhere;Crusli, Sucrilhos, Vector, Musli,
NutriDia, andChoco Krispisfor cereals in Latin America;Vectorin Canada;Coco Pops, Chocos, Frosties, Fruit‘N Fibre, Kellogg’s Crunchy Nut Corn Flakes, Krave, Honey Loops, Kellogg’s Extra,
Sustain, Muslix, Country Store, Ricicles, Smacks, Start, Pops, OptimaandTresorfor cereals in Europe; andCerola, Sultana Bran, Chex, Frosties, Goldies, Rice Bubbles, Nutri-Grain, Kellogg’s Iron Man Food,
andBeBigfor cereals in Asia and Australia. Additional trademarks are the names of certain combinations of ready-to-eatKellogg’scereals, includingFun Pak, Jumbo, andVariety.

Other brand names includeKellogg’sCorn Flake Crumbs;All-Bran, Choco Krispis, Froot Loops, Special K,
NutriDia, Kuadri-Krispis, ZucaritasandCruslifor cereal bars,Kompletefor biscuits; andKaosfor snacks in Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America;Pop-TartsandPop-Tarts Ice
Cream Shoppefor toaster pastries;Pop-Tarts Mini Crispsfor crackers;Eggo, Eggo FiberPlusandNutri-Grainfor frozen waffles and pancakes;Rice Krispies Treatsfor convenience foods;Special Kprotein shakes;Nutri-Graincereal bars,Nutri-Grainyogurt bars, for convenience foods in the United States and elsewhere;K-Time, Rice Bubbles, Day Dawn, Be Natural, SunibriteandLCMsfor convenience foods in Asia and Australia;Nutri-GrainSquares,Nutri-Grain Elevenses, andRice Krispies Squaresfor convenience foods in Europe;KashiandGoLeanfor certain cereals, nutrition bars, and mixes;TLCfor granola and cereal bars, crackers and cookies;Special KandVectorfor meal replacement products;Bear Nakedfor
granola cereal, bars and trail mix,Pringlesfor potato crisps and sticks, andMorningstar Farms, GardenburgerandWorthingtonfor certain meat and egg alternatives.

We also market convenience foods under trademarks and tradenames which includeKeebler, Austin, Keebler Baker’s Treasures, Cheez-It, Chips Deluxe, Club,
E. L. Fudge, Famous Amos, Fudge Shoppe, Kellogg’s FiberPlus, Gripz, Jack’s, Jackson’s, Krispy, Mother’s, Murray, Murray Sugar Free, Ready Crust, Right Bites, Sandies, Special K, Soft Batch, Stretch Island, Sunshine, Toasteds,
Town House, Vienna Creams, Vienna Fingers, WheatablesandZesta.One of our subsidiaries is also the exclusive licensee of theCarr’scracker line in the United States.

Our trademarks also include logos and depictions of certain animated characters in conjunction with our products, includingSnap! Crackle! Pop!forCocoa KrispiesandRice Krispiescereals andRice Krispies Treatsconvenience foods;Tony the TigerforKellogg’s Frosted Flakes, Zucaritas, SucrilhosandFrostiescereals and convenience foods;ErnieKeeblerfor cookies, convenience foods and other products; theHollow Treelogo for certain convenience foods;Toucan SamforFroot Loopscereal;Dig ‘EmforSmacks/Honey Smackscereal;SunnyforKellogg’s Raisin BranandRaisin Bran Crunchcereals,Cocothe Monkey
forCoco Popscereal;CorneliusforKellogg’s Corn Flakes;Melvinthe Elephant for certain cereal and convenience foods;Chocosthe Bear,Sammythe Seal (akaSmaxeythe Seal) for certain cereal products andMr. PorJulius Pringlesfor Pringles potato crisps and sticks.

The slogansThe Best To You Each Morning, The Original & Best, They’re Gr-r-reat!,The Difference is K, Supercharged, Earn Your StripesandGotta Have
My Pops,are used in connection with our ready-to-eat cereals, along withL’ Eggo my Eggo, used in connection with our frozen waffles and pancakes,Elfin Magic, Childhood Is Calling, The Cookies in the Passionate
Purple Package.Uncommonly GoodandBaked with Careused in connection with convenience food products,Seven Whole Grains on a Missionused in connection withKashinatural foods andSee Veggies Differentlyused in connection with meat and egg alternatives andEverything Pops With Pringlesused in connection with potato crisps are also important Kellogg trademarks.

The trademarks listed above, among others, when taken as a whole, are important to our business. Certain individual trademarks are also important to our business.
Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks are generally valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic. Registrations of trademarks can also generally be
renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use.

We consider that, taken as a whole, the rights under our various patents, which expire from
time to time, are a valuable asset, but we do not believe that our businesses are materially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. Our activities under licenses or other franchises or concessions which we hold are similarly a
valuable asset, but are not believed to be material.

Seasonality.Demand for our products has generally been approximately level throughout the year, although some of our convenience foods have a bias for stronger demand in the second half of the year due to events and
holidays. We also custom-bake cookies for the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., which are principally sold in the first quarter of the year.

Working Capital.Although terms vary around the world and by business types, in the United States we generally have required payment for
goods sold eleven






or sixteen days subsequent to the date of invoice as 2% 10/net 11 or 1% 15/net 16. Receipts from goods sold, supplemented as required by borrowings, provide for our payment of dividends,
repurchases of our common stock, capital expansion, and for other operating expenses and working capital needs.

Customers.Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 21% of consolidated net sales
during 2014, comprised principally of sales within the United States. At January 3, 2015, approximately 19% of our consolidated receivables balance and 28% of our U.S. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc. and its affiliates. No other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2014. During 2014, our top five customers, collectively, including Wal-Mart, accounted for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales and approximately
47% of U.S. net sales. There has been significant worldwide consolidation in the grocery industry and we believe that this trend is likely to continue. Although the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively
impact our sales and profits, we do not anticipate that this will occur to a significant extent due to the consumer demand for our products and our relationships with our customers. Our products have been generally sold through our own sales forces
and through broker and distributor arrangements, and have been generally resold to consumers in retail stores, restaurants, and other food service establishments.

Backlog.For the most part, orders are filled within a few days of receipt and are subject
to cancellation at any time prior to shipment. The backlog of any unfilled orders at January 3, 2015 and December 28, 2013 was not material to us.

Competition.We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense
competition for sales of all of our principal products in our major product categories, both domestically and internationally. Our products compete with advertised and branded products of a similar nature as well as unadvertised and private label
products, which are typically distributed at lower prices, and generally with other food products. Principal methods and factors of competition include new product introductions, product quality, taste, convenience, nutritional value, price,
advertising and promotion.

Research and Development.Research to support and expand the use of our existing products and to develop new food products is carried on at the W. K. Kellogg Institute for Food and Nutrition Research in Battle Creek, Michigan, and at
other locations around the world. Our expenditures for research and development were approximately (in millions): 2014-$199; 2013-$199; 2012-$206.

Regulation.Our activities in the
United States are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Federal Trade Commission and the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce and Labor, as well as voluntary regulation by other bodies.
Various state and local agencies also regulate our activities. Other agencies and bodies outside of the United States, including those of the European Union and various countries, states and municipalities, also regulate our activities.

Environmental Matters.Our facilities
are subject to various U.S. and foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations regarding the release of material into the environment and the protection of the environment in other ways. We are not a party to any material proceedings
arising under these regulations. We believe that compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations will not materially affect our consolidated financial condition or our competitive position.

Employees.At January 3, 2015, we
had approximately 29,790 employees.

Financial Information About Geographic
Areas.Information on geographic areas is located in Note 16 within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein under Part II, Item 8.

Executive Officers.The names, ages,
and positions of our executive officers (as of February 25, 2015) are listed below, together with their business experience. Executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors.



John A. Bryant49

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Bryant has been Chairman of the Board of Kellogg Company since July 2014 and has served as a Kellogg director since July 2010. In January 2011, he
was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer after having served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since August 2008. Mr. Bryant joined Kellogg in March 1998, and was promoted during the next eight years to a
number of key financial and executive leadership roles. He was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg Company, President, Kellogg International in December 2006. In July 2007, Mr. Bryant was appointed Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg Company, President, Kellogg North America and in August 2008, he was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Bryant served as Chief
Financial Officer through December 2009.






Ronald L. Dissinger56

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Dissinger was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective January 2010. Mr. Dissinger joined Kellogg in 1987 as an accounting supervisor, and during the next 14 years
served in a number of key financial leadership roles, both in the United States and Australia. In 2001, he was promoted to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Morning Foods. In 2004, Mr. Dissinger became Vice President,
Corporate Financial Planning, and CFO, Kellogg International. In 2005, he became Vice President and CFO, Kellogg Europe and CFO, Kellogg International. In 2007, Mr. Dissinger was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
Kellogg North America.



Alistair D. Hirst55

Senior Vice President, Global Supply Chain

Mr. Hirst assumed his current position in April 2012. He joined the company in 1984 as a Food Technologist at the Springs, South Africa, plant. While at the facility, he was promoted to Quality Assurance
Manager and Production Manager. From 1993-2001, Mr. Hirst held numerous positions in South Africa and Australia, including Production Manager, Plant Manager, and Director, Supply Chain. In 2001, Mr. Hirst was promoted to Director,
Procurement at the Manchester, England, facility and was later named European Logistics Director. In 2005, he transferred to the U.S. when promoted to Vice President, Global Procurement. In 2008, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Snacks
Supply Chain and to Senior Vice President, North America Supply Chain, in October 2011.



Samantha J. Long47

Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources

Ms. Long assumed her current position January 1, 2013. She joined the company in 2003 as Director, Human Resources for the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and Middle East/Mediterranean businesses as
well as the European finance, sales, human resources, research and development, information technology, communications and innovations functions. In 2006, Ms. Long transferred to the United States when she was promoted to Vice President, Human
Resources, U.S. Morning Foods & Kashi. She also served as human resources business partner to the senior vice president of global human resources. From 2008 to 2013, she held the position of Vice President, Human Resources, Kellogg North
America. Before joining the company, she was head of human resources for Sharp Electronics based in the United Kingdom. Prior to that role, she held a number of positions in her 15-year tenure with International Computers Limited, part of the
Fujitsu family of companies.



Paul T. Norman50

Senior Vice President, Chief Growth Officer

Mr. Norman was appointed Senior Vice President, Kellogg Company in December 2005 and Chief Growth Officer in October 2013. Mr. Norman also assumed the role of interim U.S. Morning Foods President in June 2014.
Mr. Norman joined Kellogg’s U.K. sales organization in 1987. From 1989 to 1996, Mr. Norman was promoted to several marketing roles in France and Canada. He was promoted to director, marketing, Kellogg de Mexico in January 1997; to
Vice President, Marketing, Kellogg USA in February 1999; to President, Kellogg Canada Inc. in December 2000; and to Managing Director, United Kingdom/Republic of Ireland in February 2002. In September 2004, Mr. Norman was appointed to Vice
President, Kellogg Company, and President, U.S. Morning Foods. In August 2008, Mr. Norman was promoted to President, Kellogg International.



Gary H. Pilnick50

Senior Vice President, General Counsel,

Corporate Development and Secretary

Mr. Pilnick was appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary in August 2003 and assumed responsibility for Corporate Development in June 2004. He joined Kellogg as Vice President — Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary in September 2000 and served in that position until August 2003.
Before joining Kellogg, he served as Vice President and Chief Counsel of Sara Lee Branded Apparel and as Vice President and Chief Counsel, Corporate Development and Finance at Sara Lee Corporation.



Maribeth A. Dangel49

Vice President and Corporate Controller

Ms. Dangel assumed her current position in April 2012. She joined Kellogg Company in 1997 as a manager in the tax department. In 2006, Ms. Dangel became a manager for accounting research, was promoted to
director, corporate financial reporting in 2007, and was promoted to vice president, financial reporting in May 2010. Before joining the company, she was a tax manager for Price Waterhouse in Indianapolis, Indiana. Prior to that role, she worked as
a tax specialist for Dow Corning Corporation in Midland, Michigan.

Availability of
Reports; Website Access; Other Information.Our internet address is http://www.kelloggcompany.com. Through “Investor Relations” — “Financials” —
“SEC Filings” on our home page, we make available free of charge our proxy statements, our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 and any






amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are also made available to read and copy at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the Public Reference Room by contacting the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov.

Copies of the Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Charters of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees of the Board of Directors, the Code
of Conduct for Kellogg Company directors and Global Code of Ethics for Kellogg Company employees (including the chief executive officer, chief financial officer and corporate controller) can also be found on the Kellogg Company website. Any
amendments or waivers to the Global Code of Ethics applicable to the chief executive officer, chief financial officer and corporate controller can also be found in the “Investor Relations” section of the Kellogg Company website.
Shareowners may also request a free copy of these documents from: Kellogg Company, P.O. Box CAMB, Battle Creek, Michigan 49016-9935 (phone: (800) 961-1413), Investor Relations Department at that same address (phone:
(269) 961-2800) or investor.relations@kellogg.com.



Forward-Looking
Statements.

