ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The
Company.  Kellogg Company, founded in 1906 and incorporated in Delaware in 1922, and its subsidiaries are engaged in the manufacture and marketing of ready-to-eat cereal and convenience
foods.

The address of the principal business office of Kellogg Company is One Kellogg Square, P.O. Box 3599, Battle Creek, Michigan
49016-3599. Unless otherwise specified or indicated by the context, “Kellogg,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Kellogg Company, its divisions and subsidiaries.

Financial Information About
Segments.  Information on segments is located in Note 15 within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Principal Products.  Our principal products are ready-to-eat cereals and convenience
foods, such as cookies, crackers, toaster pastries, cereal bars, fruit-flavored snacks, frozen waffles and veggie foods. These products were, as of February 25, 2011, manufactured by us in 18 countries and marketed in more than 180 countries.
Our cereal products are generally marketed under theKellogg’sname and are sold principally to the grocery trade through direct sales forces for resale to consumers. We use broker and distribution arrangements for certain
products. We also generally use these, or similar arrangements, in less-developed market areas or in those market areas outside of our focus.

We also
market cookies, crackers, and other convenience foods, under brands such asKellogg’s, Keebler, Cheez-It, Murray, AustinandFamous Amos,to supermarkets in the United States through a direct store-door (DSD)
delivery system, although other distribution methods are also used.

Additional information pertaining to the relative sales of our products for the
years 2008 through 2010 is located in Note 15 within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein under Part II, Item 8.

Raw Materials.  Agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soy bean oil, sugar
and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. Cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging materials used by us. We continually monitor world supplies and prices of such commodities (which include such
packaging materials), as well as government trade policies. The cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation, weather conditions, climate change or other unforeseen circumstances. Continuous efforts are made
to maintain and improve the quality and supply of such commodities for purposes of our short-term and long-term requirements.

The principal ingredients
in the products produced by us in the United States include corn grits, wheat and wheat derivatives, oats, rice, cocoa and chocolate, soybeans and soybean derivatives, various fruits, sweeteners, flour, vegetable oils, dairy products, eggs, and
other filling ingredients, which are obtained from various sources. Most of these commodities are purchased principally from sources in the United States.

We enter into long-term contracts for the commodities described in this section and purchase these items on the open market, depending on our view of possible price fluctuations, supply levels, and our relative
negotiating power. While the cost of some of these commodities has, and may continue to, increase over time, we believe that we will be able to purchase an adequate supply of these items as needed. As further discussed herein under Part II,
Item 7A, we also use commodity futures and options to hedge some of our costs.

Raw materials and packaging needed for internationally based
operations are available in adequate supply and are sometimes imported from countries other than those where used in manufacturing.

Natural gas and
propane are the primary sources of energy used to power processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities, although certain locations may use oil or propane on a back-up or alternative basis. In addition, considerable amounts of diesel
fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. As further discussed herein under Part II, Item 7A, we use over-the-counter commodity price swaps to hedge some of our natural gas costs.

Trademarks and
Technology.  Generally, our products are marketed under trademarks we own. Our principal trademarks are our housemarks, brand names, slogans, and designs related to cereals and
convenience foods manufactured and marketed by us, and we also grant licenses to third parties to use these marks on various goods. These trademarks includeKellogg’sfor cereals, convenience foods and our other products, and the
brand names of certain ready-to-eat cereals, includingAll-Bran, Apple Jacks, Bran Buds, Cinnamon Crunch Crispix, Cocoa Krispies, Complete, Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, Corn Pops, Cracklin’ Oat Bran, Crispix, Cruncheroos, Crunchmania,
Crunchy Nut, Eggo, Kellogg’s FiberPlus, Froot Loops, Kellogg’s Frosted Flakes, Frosted Krispies, Frosted Mini-Wheats, Fruit Harvest, Just Right, Kellogg’s Low Fat Granola, Mueslix, Pops, Product 19,






Kellogg’s Raisin Bran, Raisin Bran Crunch,Rice Krispies, Rice Krispies Treats, Smacks/Honey Smacks, Smart Start, Kellogg’s Smorz, Special KandSpecial K Red Berriesin the United States and elsewhere;Zucaritas, Choco Zucaritas, Crusli, Sucrilhos, Vector, Musli, NutriDia,andChoco Krispisfor cereals in Latin America;ViveandVectorin Canada;Coco Pops, Chocos, Frosties, Fruit’n Fibre, Kellogg’s Crunchy Nut Corn Flakes, Honey Loops, Kellogg’s Extra, Sustain, Muslix, Country Store, Ricicles, Smacks, Start, Pops, OptimaandTresorfor cereals in Europe; andCerola, Sultana Bran, Chex, Frosties, Goldies, Rice Bubbles, Nutri-Grain, Kellogg’s Iron Man Food,andBeBigfor cereals in Asia and Australia. Additional Company trademarks are the
names of certain combinations of ready-to-eatKellogg’scereals, includingFun Pak, Jumbo,andVariety.

Other Company brand names includeKellogg’sCorn Flake Crumbs;Croutettesfor herb season stuffing mix;All-Bran, Choco
Krispis, Froot Loops, NutriDia, Kuadri-Krispis, Zucaritas, Special K,andCruslifor cereal bars,Kompletefor biscuits; andKaosfor snacks in Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America;Pop-TartsandPop-Tarts Ice Cream Shoppefor toaster pastries;Pop-Tarts Mini Crispsfor crackers;Eggo, Eggo FiberPlus, Special K, Froot LoopsandNutri-Grainfor frozen waffles and pancakes;Rice Krispies Treatsfor baked snacks and convenience foods;Special KandSpecial K2Ofor flavored protein water mixes and protein shakes;Nutri-Graincereal bars,Nutri-Grainyogurt bars,All-Branbars and crackers, for convenience foods in the United States and elsewhere;K-Time, Rice Bubbles, Day Dawn, Be Natural, SunibriteandLCMsfor convenience foods in Asia and Australia;Nutri-GrainSquares,Nutri-Grain Elevenses, andRice Krispies Squaresfor convenience foods in Europe;Fruit Windersfor fruit snacks in the United Kingdom;KashiandGoLeanfor certain cereals, nutrition bars, and mixes;TLCfor granola and cereal bars, crackers and cookies;Special KandVectorfor meal replacement products;Bear Nakedfor
granola cereal, bars and trail mix andMorningstar Farms, Loma Linda, Natural Touch, GardenburgerandWorthingtonfor certain meat and egg alternatives.

We also market convenience foods under trademarks and tradenames which includeKeebler, Austin, Keebler Baker’s Treasures, Cheez-It, Chips Deluxe, Club, E. L. Fudge, Famous Amos, Fudge Shoppe, Hi-Ho,
Kellogg’s FiberPlus, Gripz, Jack’s, Jackson’s, Krispy, Mother’s, Murray, Murray Sugar Free, Ready Crust, Right Bites, Sandies, Special K, Soft Batch, Stretch Island, Sunshine, Toasteds, Town House, Vienna Creams, Vienna Fingers,
WheatablesandZesta.One of our subsidiaries is also the exclusive licensee of theCarr’scracker line in the United States.

Our trademarks also include logos and depictions of certain animated characters in conjunction with our products, includingSnap!Crackle!Pop!forCocoa KrispiesandRice
Krispiescereals andRice Krispies Treatsconvenience foods;Tony the TigerforKellogg’s Frosted Flakes, Zucaritas, SucrilhosandFrostiescereals and convenience foods;Ernie Keeblerfor cookies, convenience foods and other products; theHollow Treelogo for certain convenience foods;Toucan SamforFroot Loopscereal;Dig ‘EmforSmacks/Honey Smackscereal;SunnyforKellogg’s Raisin BranandRaisin Bran Crunchcereals,Cocothe Monkey forCoco Popscereal;CorneliusforKellogg’s Corn Flakes;Melvinthe Elephant for certain cereal and convenience foods;Chocosthe Bear,Kobithe Bear,Sammythe Seal (akaSmaxeythe Seal) for certain
cereal products.

The slogansThe Best To You Each Morning, The Original & Best, They’re Gr-r-reat!,The Difference is
K, One Bowl Stronger, Supercharged, Earn Your StripesandGotta Have My Pops,used in connection with our ready-to-eat cereals, along withL’ Eggo my Eggo, used in connection with our frozen waffles and
pancakes,Elfin Magic, Childhood Is Calling, The Cookies in the Passionate Purple PackageandUncommonly Goodused in connection with convenience food products,Seven Whole Grains on a Missionused in
connection withKashiall-natural foods andSee Veggies Differentlyused in connection with meat and egg alternatives are also important Kellogg trademarks.

The trademarks listed above, among others, when taken as a whole, are important to our business. Certain individual trademarks are also important to our business. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks are
generally valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic. Registrations of trademarks can also generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are
in use.

We consider that, taken as a whole, the rights under our various patents, which expire from time to time, are a valuable asset, but we do not
believe that our businesses are materially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. Our activities under licenses or other franchises or concessions which we hold are similarly a valuable asset, but are not believed to be
material.

Seasonality.  Demand for our
products has generally been approximately level throughout the year, although some of our convenience foods have a bias for stronger demand in the second half of the year due to events and holidays. We also custom-bake cookies for the Girl Scouts of
the U.S.A., which are principally sold in the first quarter of the year.






Working Capital.  Although terms vary around the world and by business types, in the United States we generally have required payment for goods sold eleven or sixteen days subsequent to the date of invoice as 2% 10/net
11 or 1% 15/net 16. Receipts from goods sold, supplemented as required by borrowings, provide for our payment of dividends, repurchases of our common stock, capital expansion, and for other operating expenses and working capital needs.

Customers.  Our largest customer,
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 21% of consolidated net sales during 2010, comprised principally of sales within the United States. At January 1, 2011, approximately 18% of our consolidated receivables
balance and 27% of our U.S. receivables balance was comprised of amounts owed by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates. No other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2010. During 2010, our top five customers, collectively,
including Wal-Mart, accounted for approximately 34% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 46% of U.S. net sales. There has been significant worldwide consolidation in the grocery industry in recent years and we believe that this trend
is likely to continue. Although the loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits, we do not anticipate that this will occur to a significant extent due to the consumer demand for our
products and our relationships with our customers. Our products have been generally sold through our own sales forces and through broker and distributor arrangements, and have been generally resold to consumers in retail stores, restaurants, and
other food service establishments.

Backlog.  For the most part, orders are filled within a few days of receipt and are subject to cancellation at any time prior to shipment. The backlog of any unfilled orders at January 1, 2011 and
January 2, 2010 was not material to us.

Competition.  We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition for sales of all of our principal products in our major product categories, both domestically and internationally. Our
products compete with advertised and branded products of a similar nature as well as unadvertised and private label products, which are typically distributed at lower prices, and generally with other food products. Principal methods and factors of
competition include new product introductions, product quality, taste, convenience, nutritional value, price, advertising and promotion.

Research and Development.  Research to support and expand the use of our existing products and to develop new food products is
carried on at the W. K. Kellogg Institute for Food and Nutrition Research in Battle Creek, Michigan, and at other locations around the world. Our expenditures for research and development were approximately $187 million in 2010 and $181 million in
2009 and 2008.

Regulation.  Our activities in the
United States are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Federal Trade Commission and the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce and Labor, as well as voluntary regulation by other bodies.
Various state and local agencies also regulate our activities. Other agencies and bodies outside of the United States, including those of the European Union and various countries, states and municipalities, also regulate our activities.

Environmental Matters.  Our
facilities are subject to various U.S. and foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations regarding the release of material into the environment and the protection of the environment in other ways. We are not a party to any material
proceedings arising under these regulations. We believe that compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations will not materially affect our consolidated financial condition or our competitive position.

Employees.  At January 1,
2011, we had approximately 30,600 employees.

Financial Information About
Geographic Areas. Information on geographic areas is located in Note 15 within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein under Part II, Item 8.

Executive
Officers.  The names, ages, and positions of our executive officers (as of February 25, 2011) are listed below, together with their business experience. Executive officers are
generally elected annually by the Board of Directors at the meeting immediately prior to the Annual Meeting of Shareowners.



James M. Jenness64

Chairman of the Board

Mr. Jenness has been our Chairman since February 2005 and has served as a Kellogg director since 2000. From February 2005 until December 2006, he also served
as our Chief Executive Officer. He was Chief Executive Officer of Integrated Merchandising Systems, LLC, a leader in outsource management of retail promotion and branded merchandising from 1997 to December 2004. He is also a director of
Kimberly-Clark Corporation.



John A. Bryant45

President and Chief
Executive Officer






Mr. Bryant became President and Chief Executive Officer on January 2, 2011 and has served as a Kellogg
director since July 2010. Mr. Bryant joined Kellogg in March 1998, working in support of the global strategic planning process. He was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg USA, in August 2000, was appointed as
Kellogg’s Chief Financial Officer in February 2002 and was appointed Executive Vice President later in 2002. He also assumed responsibility for the Natural and Frozen Foods Division, Kellogg USA, in September 2003. He was appointed Executive
Vice President and President, Kellogg International in June 2004 and was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg Company, President, Kellogg International in December 2006. In July 2007, Mr. Bryant was appointed
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg Company, President, Kellogg North America and in August 2008, he was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Bryant served as
Chief Financial Officer through December 2009.



Celeste Clark57

Senior Vice President, Global Public Policy and External
Relations, Chief Sustainability Officer

Dr. Clark has been Kellogg Company’s senior vice president, global public policy and external
relations since August 2010. She joined Kellogg in 1977 and served in several roles of increasing responsibility before being appointed to Vice President, Worldwide Nutrition Marketing in 1996 and then to Senior Vice President, Nutrition and
Marketing Communications, Kellogg USA in 1999. She was appointed to Vice President, Corporate and Scientific Affairs in October 2002, and to Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs in August 2003. In June 2006, Dr. Clark was appointed
Kellogg’s Senior Vice President of Global Nutrition and Corporate Affairs. Since 2008, Dr. Clark has served as the company’s Chief Sustainability Officer.



Bradford J. Davidson50

Senior Vice President, Kellogg Company

President, Kellogg North America

Brad Davidson was appointed
President, Kellogg North America in August 2008. Mr. Davidson joined Kellogg Canada as a sales representative in 1984. He held numerous positions in Canada, including manager of trade promotions, account executive, brand manager, area sales
manager, director of customer marketing and category management, and director of Western Canada. Mr. Davidson transferred to Kellogg USA in 1997 as director, trade marketing. He later was promoted to Vice President, Channel Sales and Marketing
and then to Vice President, National Teams Sales and Marketing. In 2000, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Sales for the Morning Foods Division, Kellogg USA, and to Executive Vice President and Chief Customer Officer, Morning Foods Division,
Kellogg USA in 2002. In June 2003, Mr. Davidson was appointed President, U.S. Snacks and promoted in August 2003 to Senior Vice President.



Ronald L. Dissinger52

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Ron Dissinger was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective January 2010. Mr. Dissinger joined Kellogg in
1987 as an accounting supervisor, and during the next 14 years served in a number of key financial leadership roles, both in the United States and Australia. In 2001, he was promoted to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Morning
Foods. In 2004, Mr. Dissinger became Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, and CFO, Kellogg International. In 2005, he became Vice President and CFO, Kellogg Europe and CFO, Kellogg International. In 2007, Mr. Dissinger was
appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Kellogg North America.



Paul T. Norman46

Senior Vice President, Kellogg Company

President, Kellogg International

Paul Norman was appointed
President, Kellogg International in August 2008. Mr. Norman joined Kellogg’s U.K. sales organization in 1987. From 1989 to 1996, Mr. Norman was promoted to several marketing roles in France and Canada. He was promoted to director,
marketing, Kellogg de Mexico in January 1997; to Vice President, Marketing, Kellogg USA in February 1999; and to President, Kellogg Canada Inc. in December 2000. In February 2002, he was promoted to Managing Director, United Kingdom/Republic of
Ireland and to Vice President in August 2003. He was appointed President, U.S. Morning Foods in September 2004. In December 2005, Mr. Norman was promoted to Senior Vice President.



Gary H. Pilnick46

Senior Vice President, General Counsel,

Corporate Development and Secretary

Mr. Pilnick was appointed
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in August 2003 and assumed responsibility for Corporate Development in June 2004. He joined Kellogg as Vice President — Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary in September 2000 and
served in that position until August 2003. Before joining Kellogg, he served as Vice President and Chief Counsel of Sara Lee Branded Apparel and as Vice President and Chief Counsel, Corporate Development and Finance at Sara Lee Corporation.



Dennis W. Shuler55Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources






Mr. Shuler joined Kellogg on February 18, 2010. In 2009, Mr. Shuler served as President of Core
Strengths Management Consulting. From April 2008 to April 2009, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at The Walt Disney Company. Prior to that, Mr. Shuler served in progressively responsible human resources
positions over a period of 23 years at Procter & Gamble Company in the United States and the United Kingdom, serving as Vice-President of the P&G Beauty global business unit from July 2001 and the Vice President of P&G Beauty and
Health & Well Being global business units from July 2006 through March 2008.



Alan R. Andrews55Vice President and Corporate Controller

Mr. Andrews joined Kellogg Company in 1982. He served in various financial roles before relocating to China as general
manager of Kellogg China in 1993. He subsequently served in several leadership innovation and finance roles before being promoted to Vice President, International Finance, Kellogg International in 2000. In 2002, he was appointed to Assistant
Corporate Controller and assumed his current position in June 2004.

Availability of
Reports; Website Access; Other Information.  Our internet address is http://www.kelloggcompany.com. Through “Investor Relations” — “Financials” —
“SEC Filings” on our home page, we make available free of charge our proxy statements, our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, SEC Forms 3, 4 and 5 and any
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are also made available to read and copy at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain
information about the Public Reference Room by contacting the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov.

Copies of the Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Charters of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Governance Committees of the Board of Directors, the Code of Conduct for Kellogg Company directors and
Global Code of Ethics for Kellogg Company employees (including the chief executive officer, chief financial officer and corporate controller) can also be found on the Kellogg Company website. Any amendments or waivers to the Global Code of Ethics
applicable to the chief executive officer, chief financial officer and corporate controller can also be found in the “Investor Relations” section of the Kellogg Company website. Shareowners may also request a free copy of these documents
from: Kellogg Company, P.O. Box CAMB, Battle Creek, Michigan 49016-9935 (phone: (800) 961-1413), Investor Relations Department at that same address (phone: (269) 961-2800) or investor.relations@kellogg.com.



Forward-Looking Statements






