
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                               ----------------
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
   ACT OF 1934
 
   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
                                      OR
 
[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE SECURITIES
   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
   FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM             TO             .
                                  ------------   ------------
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-644
                               ----------------
 
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                  DELAWARE                                       13-1815595
       (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                        (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
       INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                       IDENTIFICATION NO.)

     300 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NEW YORK                           10022
  (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)                       (ZIP CODE)
 
                               ----------------
 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE 212-310-2000
 
         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (B) OF THE ACT:
 
                               ----------------
 

 

 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  At February 28, 1998 the aggregate market value of stock held by non-
affiliates was $24.0 billion. There were 295,721,891 shares of Common Stock
outstanding as of February 28, 1998.
 
                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 

 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
 (a) General Development of the Business
 
  Colgate-Palmolive Company (the "Company") is a corporation which was
organized under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923. The Company
manufactures and markets a wide variety of products throughout the world for
use by consumers. For recent business developments, refer to the information
set forth under the captions "Results of Operations" , "Liquidity and Capital
Resources" and "Outlook" in Part II, Item 7 of this report.
 
 (b) Financial Information About Industry Segments
 
  For information about industry segments refer to the information set forth
under the caption "Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of this report.
 
 (c) Narrative Description of the Business
 
  For information regarding description of the business refer to Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included herein; "Average number of
employees" appearing under "Historical Financial Summary" included herein; and
"Research and development" expenses appearing in Note 10 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included herein.
 
  Compliance with environmental rules and regulations has not significantly
affected the Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities totaled $19.0
million in 1997 and are budgeted at $17.5 million for 1998. For future years,
expenditures are expected to be in the same range. The Company has programs
that are designed to ensure that its operations and facilities meet or exceed
applicable environmental rules and regulations.
 
 (d) Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
Sales
 
  For information concerning geographic area financial data refer to the
information set forth under the caption "Results of Operations" in Part II,
Item 7 of this report.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company owns and leases a total of 346 manufacturing, distribution,
research and office facilities worldwide. Corporate headquarters is housed in
leased facilities at 300 Park Avenue, New York, New York.
 
  In the United States, the Company operates 61 facilities, of which 30 are
owned. Major U.S. manufacturing and warehousing facilities used by the Oral,
Personal and Household Care segment are located in Kansas City, Kansas;
Morristown, New Jersey; Jeffersonville, Indiana, and Cambridge, Ohio. The
Company is transforming its former facilities in Jersey City, New Jersey into
a mixed-use complex with the assistance of developers and other investors. The
Pet Nutrition segment has major facilities in Bowling Green, Kentucky; Topeka,
Kansas; and Richmond, Indiana. Research facilities are located throughout the
world with the primary research center for Oral, Personal and Household Care
products located in Piscataway, New Jersey.
 
  Overseas, the Company operates 285 facilities, of which 109 are owned, in
over 70 countries. Major overseas facilities used by the Oral, Personal and
Household Care segment are located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China,
Colombia, France, Italy, Mexico, Thailand, the United Kingdom and elsewhere
throughout the world. In some areas outside the United States, products are
either manufactured by independent contractors under Company specifications or
are imported from the United States or elsewhere.
 
  All facilities operated by the Company are, in general, well maintained and
adequate for the purpose for which they are intended. The Company conducts
continuing reviews of its facilities with the view to modernization and cost
reduction.
 

 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  For information regarding legal matters refer to Note 17 of the Consolidated
Financial Statements included herein.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  None.
 

 
                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  The following is a list of executive officers as of March 24, 1998:
 

 
  Each of the executive officers listed above has served the registrant or its
subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years.
 
  The Company By-Laws, paragraph 38, states: The officers of the corporation
shall hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified
in their stead, or until they have resigned, retired or been removed in the
manner hereinafter provided. Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of
Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the whole Board of Directors.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
     SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
 
  Refer to the information regarding the market for the Company's Common Stock
and the quarterly market price information appearing under "Market and
Dividend Information" in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included herein; the information under "Capital Stock and Stock Compensation
Plans" in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein; and
the "Number of shareholders of record" and "Cash dividends declared and paid
per common share" under the caption "Historical Financial Summary" included
herein.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
  Refer to the information set forth under the caption "Historical Financial
Summary" included herein.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 

 
- --------
 * Sales outside North America represented approximately 30%, 29% and 29% of
   total sales of Pet Nutrition products in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
NET SALES
 
  Worldwide net sales increased 4% to $9,056.7 in 1997 on volume growth of 7%,
reflecting volume increases in every geographic region. Sales would have grown
8%, excluding the negative effect of foreign exchange declines. Sales in the
Oral, Personal and Household Care segment were up 3% on 7% volume growth.
 
  In 1997, sales and unit volume each rose 7% in North America. U.S. sales led
the region, with strong new products including the launch of Colgate Total,
which is the first toothpaste approved by the Food and Drug Administration for
its ability to help prevent gingivitis, plaque and cavities. Other new
products, supported by increased advertising, which fueled growth in the
region were Colgate tartar control whitening, Palmolive for pots & pans
dishwashing liquid, Speed Stick Ultimate antiperspirant and Softsoap bodywash
with vitamin E.
 
  Sales in Latin America were up 11% on 10% volume growth. Widespread growth
throughout the division included sizable gains in Mexico, Ecuador, Colombia
and Central America. In Brazil, Sorriso brand toothpaste was launched and
achieved full market distribution. As part of the regulatory approval of the
Company's acquisition of Kolynos, Kolynos brand toothpaste has been withdrawn
from the market for four years. Other new product introductions which have
contributed to the growth in this region included Colgate Double Cool Stripe
toothpaste, Protex Fresh soap and Lady Speed Stick Invisible Dry
antiperspirant.
 

 
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
  Sales in Europe decreased 5% in 1997 due to the negative effects of weaker
European currencies, while volume grew 5%. Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom
and Poland achieved the strongest volume increases in the region. The ongoing
success of new product launches such as Ajax Fetes des Fleurs, Colgate
Sensation whitening, Ajax Expel cleaner with insect repellent and Palmolive
antibacterial dishwashing liquid helped the region increase volume in this
highly competitive market.
 
  Overall, sales of the Asia/Africa region decreased 2%. Excluding divested
businesses, sales were flat on 5% volume growth for the year 1997. China led
the region in both strong sales and volume growth. Partially offsetting this
growth was the negative impact of the weakening ASEAN currencies. Of the ASEAN
countries undergoing economic problems, Colgate competes in Malaysia, the
Philippines and Thailand. New product launches drove the volume growth in
Asia/Africa.
 
  Sales for Hill's Pet Nutrition increased 11% on 9% volume growth. Hill's
enjoyed sales and volume growth in both the domestic and international
markets. Growth was strongest in Japan, where Hill's has introduced 11 new
products and begun successful television advertising, and Europe, where new
manufacturing capacity is enabling Hill's to meet growing demand.
 
  In 1996, worldwide net sales increased 5% to $8,749.0, reflecting volume
increases by all divisions. North America posted overall sales growth of 5% on
the same percentage of volume growth. Europe sales decreased slightly in 1996
on 3% higher volume, due primarily to weaker currencies. Latin America led the
Oral, Personal and Household Care segment with an 8% increase in sales on 7%
volume growth. Asia/Africa sales increased 6% on 7% volume growth. The Pet
Nutrition segment increased sales 10% on 6% volume gains. During 1996, Hill's
completed its transition to a company-owned distribution and sales network.
 
GROSS PROFIT
 
  Gross profit margin was 50.7%, above both the 1996 level of 49.1% and the
1995 level of 47.9%. All regions improved margins over 1996. The favorable
trend reflects cost-reduction programs including supply chain management and
the restructuring program, as well as emphasis on higher margin products.
 
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were
36% in 1997, 35% in 1996 and 34% in 1995. The increasing trend primarily
represents additional advertising spending in every region. The Company
continues to focus on expense-containment strategies.
 
PROVISION FOR RESTRUCTURED OPERATIONS
 
  In September 1995, the Company announced a major worldwide restructuring of
its manufacturing and administrative operations designed to further enhance
profitable growth over the next several years by generating significant
efficiencies and improving competitiveness. The charge included employee
termination costs and expenses associated with the realignment of the
Company's global manufacturing operations, as well as settlement of
contractual obligations. The worldwide restructuring program resulted in a
1995 third quarter pretax charge of $460.5 ($369.2 net of tax) or $1.27 per
share for the year. The restructuring programs are expected to be
substantially completed during 1998.
 
OTHER EXPENSE, NET
 
  Other expense, net, consists principally of amortization of goodwill and
other intangible assets, minority interest in earnings of less-than-100%-owned
consolidated subsidiaries, earnings from equity investments and other
miscellaneous gains and losses. Other expense, net, decreased in 1997
primarily due to gains from sales of non-core product lines and other assets,
gains on derivative financial instruments and changes in the level of
amortization.
 

 
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 

 
 
EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES (EBIT)
 
  EBIT increased 12% in 1997 to $1,285.8 compared with $1,152.0 in 1996. EBIT
for the Oral, Personal and Household Care segment was up 10% with North
America, Latin America and Europe posting gains of 26%, 18% and 1%,
respectively. Results in Asia/Africa decreased by 15% due to the economic
weakening in the ASEAN countries, difficult economic conditions in Africa and
continued investment in China. The Pet Nutrition segment EBIT increased 28%.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE, NET
 
  Interest expense, net, was $183.5 compared with $197.4 in 1996 and $205.4 in
1995. The decline in interest expense is the result of decreasing debt levels.
In 1995, substantial debt was incurred to finance the Kolynos acquisition.
Free cash flow has been used to reduce the Company's debt in 1996 and 1997.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
  The effective tax rate on income was 32.8% in 1997 versus 33.5% in 1996 and
52.7% in 1995. The overall effective rate in 1995 was impacted by the charge
for restructuring, the tax benefit of which was 20% due to the effect of tax
benefits in certain jurisdictions not expected to be realized. Excluding the
charge, the effective income tax rate was 34.3% in 1995. Global tax planning
strategies benefited the effective tax rate in all three years presented.
 
NET INCOME
 
  Net income was $740.4 in 1997 or $2.44 per share compared with $635.0 in
1996 or $2.09 per share and $172.0 in 1995 or $.52 per share. Excluding the
restructuring charge in 1995, earnings were $541.2 or $1.79 per share. In
1997, there was a two-for-one stock split. All financial information contained
herein has been adjusted to reflect this split.
 

 
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 

 
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
  Net cash provided by operations increased 20% to $1,097.8 compared with
$917.4 in 1996 and $810.2 in 1995. The increasing trend reflects the Company's
improved profitability, lower cash taxes and working capital management. Cash
generated from operations was used to fund capital spending, reduce debt
levels and increase dividends.
 
  During 1997, long-term debt decreased from $2,897.2 to $2,518.6, while total
debt decreased from $3,069.5 to $2,677.1. The decrease resulted primarily from
repayment of a $406.0 loan with a foreign commercial bank and net commercial
paper reductions from free cash flow.
 
  As of December 31, 1997, $607.5 of domestic and foreign commercial paper was
outstanding. These borrowings carry a Standard & Poor's rating of A1 and a
Moody's rating of P1. The commercial paper as well as other short-term
borrowings are classified as long-term debt at December 31, 1997, as it is the
Company's intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term
basis. The Company has additional sources of liquidity available in the form
of lines of credit maintained with various banks. At December 31, 1997, such
unused lines of credit amounted to $1,586.4. In addition, at December 31,
1997, the Company had $697.8 available under previously filed shelf
registrations.
 
  In 1996, the Company entered into a $496.3 loan agreement and obtained a
$406.0 term loan with foreign commercial banks. In addition, the Company
issued $100.0 of notes in a private placement and issued $75.0 of medium-term
notes under previously filed shelf registrations.
 
  During 1995, the Company issued $89.2 of Swiss franc bonds and $71.7 of
Luxembourg franc bonds, both of which were immediately swapped into U.S.
dollar floating rate debt. In addition, $220.0 of medium-term notes were
issued under the shelf registration filed in May 1994. Also in 1995, the
Company obtained a $75.0 term note and filed a shelf registration for $700.0
of debt securities.
 
  The ratio of net debt to total capitalization (defined as the ratio of the
book values of debt less cash and marketable securities ["net debt"] to net
debt plus equity) decreased to 53% during 1997 from 58% in 1996 and 64% in
1995. The decrease in 1997 was primarily the result of higher earnings and
related operating cash flow available to reduce debt levels.
 

 
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 

 
 
  Capital expenditures were 5% of net sales for all three years presented.
Capital spending continues to be focused primarily on projects that yield high
aftertax returns, thereby reducing the Company's cost structure. Capital
expenditures for 1998 are expected to continue at the current rate of
approximately 5% of net sales.
 
  Other investing activities in 1997, 1996 and 1995 included strategic
acquisitions and divestitures around the world. The most significant
acquisition was the 1995 purchase of Kolynos in Latin America. The aggregate
purchase price of all 1997, 1996 and 1995 acquisitions was $20.3, $38.5 and
$1,321.9, respectively. The Sterno fuel product line was sold in 1997. The
aggregate sale price of all 1997, 1996 and 1995 sales of businesses or product
lines was $101.4, $25.1 and $2.0, respectively.
 
  The Company repurchases common shares in the open market and private
transactions to provide for employee benefit plans and to maintain its
targeted capital structure. Aggregate repurchases for 1997 were 2.8 million
shares, with a total purchase price of $175.1.
 
  Dividend payments were $333.4, up from $296.2 in 1996 and $276.5 in 1995.
Common stock dividend payments increased to $1.06 per share in 1997 from $.94
per share in 1996 and $.88 in 1995. The Series B Preference Stock dividends
were declared and paid at the stated rate of $4.88 per share in all three
years.
 
  Internally generated cash flows appear to be adequate to support currently
planned business operations, acquisitions and capital expenditures.
Significant acquisitions, similar to the acquisition of Kolynos discussed
previously, would require external financing.
 
  The Company is a party to various superfund and other environmental matters
and is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, taxes and other matters
arising out of the normal course of business. Management proactively reviews
and manages its exposure to, and the impact of, environmental matters. While
it is possible that the Company's cash flows and results of operations in
particular quarterly or annual periods could be affected by the one-time
impacts of the resolution of such contingencies, it is the opinion of
management that the ultimate disposition of these matters, to the extent not
previously provided for, will not have a material impact on the Company's
financial condition or ongoing cash flows and results of operations.
 
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  The Company is exposed to market risk from interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations. The Company utilizes simple instruments,
such as non-leveraged interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency
exchange contracts, to manage these exposures. The principal objective of such
financial derivative contracts is to moderate the effect of fluctuations in
interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The Company, as a matter of policy,
does not speculate in financial markets and therefore does not hold these
contracts for trading purposes.
 

 
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
  Interest rate swap contracts are used to manage the Company's mix of fixed
and floating rate debt. The Company's target floating rate obligations as a
percentage of the Company's global debt is set by policy. The Company utilizes
foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge European and ASEAN currency
exposures associated with its net investment in subsidiaries, inventory
purchases and debt.
 
VALUE AT RISK
 
  The Company's risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest
rate and foreign exchange exposures and the Company's offsetting hedge
positions utilizing analytical analysis of cashflows, market value,
sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk estimations. However, the use of these
techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be
construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related
assumptions. The Company utilizes a Value-at-Risk (VAR) model and an Earnings-
at-Risk (EAR) model that are intended to measure the maximum potential loss in
its interest rate and foreign exchange financial instruments assuming adverse
market conditions occur, given a 95% confidence level. The models utilize a
variance/covariance modeling technique. Historical interest rates and foreign
exchange rates from the preceding year are used to estimate the volatility and
correlation of future rates. The estimated maximum potential one-day loss in
fair value of interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated
using the VAR model, is not material to the consolidated financial position,
results of operations or cash flows of the Company. The estimated maximum
yearly loss in earnings due to interest rate or foreign exchange rate
instruments, calculated utilizing the EAR model, is not material to the
Company's results of operations. Actual results in the future may differ
materially from these projected results due to actual developments in the
global financial markets.
 
  A discussion of the Company's accounting policies for financial instruments
is included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, and further disclosure relating to
financial instruments is included in the Fair Value of Financial Instruments
note.
 
OUTLOOK
 
  Looking forward into 1998, the Company is well positioned for strong growth
in most of its markets, particularly Latin America and North America. However,
movements in foreign currency exchange rates can impact future operating
results as measured in U.S. dollars. In particular, economic turmoil in the
ASEAN countries may continue to impact overall results of Asia/Africa, and
projected growth may be tempered until these economies become more stable. Of
the ASEAN countries undergoing economic problems, Colgate competes in
Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand, which represent less than 4% of total
Company sales and earnings. At this time, management does not anticipate that
this ASEAN economic crisis will meaningfully extend to other parts of the
world. If conditions were to significantly deteriorate, however, such an event
could impact the Company.
 
  Competitive pressures in Western European markets are expected to persist as
business in this region will continue to be affected by slow economic growth,
high unemployment and retail trade consolidation. In Latin America, the
Company will continue to account for the Brazilian operations as highly
inflationary and assess the status throughout the year. Ceasing to treat
Brazil as highly inflationary would not be expected to be material to the
financial statements.
 
  The Company has developed preliminary plans to address the possible
exposures related to the impact of the year 2000 on the Company's computers,
as well as the computers of its suppliers and customers. Given that the SAP
computer system is compliant with year 2000, and most Colgate regions will be
using SAP by the year 2000, the financial impact of making required changes to
non-SAP Colgate systems is not expected to be material.
 

 
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
  The Company expects the continued success of Colgate Total, using patented
proprietary technology, to bolster worldwide oral care leadership and expects
new products in all other categories to add potential for further growth.
Overall, subject to global economic conditions, the Company does not expect
the 1998 market conditions to be materially different from those experienced
in 1997 and the Company expects its positive momentum to continue.
Historically, the consumer products industry has been less susceptible to
changes in economic growth than many other industries, and therefore the
Company constantly evaluates projects that will focus operations on
opportunities for enhanced growth potential. Over the long term, Colgate's
continued focus on its consumer products business and the strength of its
global brand names, its broad international presence in both developed and
developing markets, and its strong capital base all position the Company to
take advantage of growth opportunities and to continue to increase
profitability and shareholder value.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
  See the "Index to Financial Statements" which is located on page 15 of this
report.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  None.
 

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  Information regarding directors and executive officers of the registrant set
forth in the Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting is incorporated herein
by reference, as is the text in Part I of this report under the caption
"Executive Officers of the Registrant".
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  (a) Security ownership of management set forth in the Proxy Statement for the
1998 Annual Meeting is incorporated herein by reference.
 
  (b) There are no arrangements known to the registrant that may at a
subsequent date result in a change in control of the registrant.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules
 
  See the "Index to Financial Statements" which is located on page 15 of this
report.
 
  (b) Exhibits. See the exhibit index included herein.
 
  (c) Reports on Form 8-K. None.
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                                Colgate-Palmolive Company
                                          _____________________________________
                                                      (Registrant)
 
Date March 24, 1998                                   /s/ Reuben Mark
                                          By___________________________________
                                                       Reuben Mark
                                                  Chairman of the Board
                                               and Chief Executive Officer
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
(a) Principal Executive Officer             (c) Principal Accounting Officer
 
 
    /s/ Reuben Mark                               /s/ Dennis J. Hickey
  _______________________________               _______________________________
            Reuben Mark                                Dennis J. Hickey
       Chairman of the Board                          Vice President and
    and Chief Executive Officer                      Corporate Controller
 
 
Date March 24, 1998                         Date March 24, 1998
 
 
(b) Principal Financial Officer             (d) Directors:
 
 
      /s/ Stephen C. Patrick
  _______________________________           Jill K. Conway, Ronald E.        
        Stephen C. Patrick                  Ferguson, Ellen M. Hancock,      
      Chief Financial Officer               David W. Johnson, John P. Kendall,
                                            Richard J. Kogan, Delano E. Lewis,
                                            Reuben Mark, Howard B. Wentz, Jr. 
Date March 24, 1998                         
                                             
                                                                          
 
                                                  /s/ Andrew D. Hendry
                                                _______________________________
                                                    Andrew D. Hendry
                                                   as Attorney-in-Fact
 
                                            Date March 24, 1998
 

 
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10022
 

 
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 
  All other financial statements and schedules not listed have been omitted
since the required information is included in the financial statements or the
notes thereto or is not applicable or required.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 

 
 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
 
                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 

 
             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN CAPITAL ACCOUNTS
 
                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 

 
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS
 
  The Company manufactures and markets a wide variety of products in the U.S.
and around the world in two distinct business segments: Oral, Personal and
Household Care, and Pet Nutrition. Oral, Personal and Household Care products
include toothpastes, oral rinses and toothbrushes, bar and liquid soaps,
shampoos, conditioners, deodorants and antiperspirants, baby and shave
products, laundry and dishwashing detergents, fabric softeners, cleansers and
cleaners, bleaches and other similar items. These products are sold primarily
to wholesale and retail distributors worldwide. Pet Nutrition products include
pet food products manufactured and marketed by Hill's Pet Nutrition. The
principal customers for Pet Nutrition products are veterinarians and specialty
pet retailers. Principal global trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, Mennen,
Protex, Ajax, Soupline/Suavitel, Fab, Science Diet and Prescription Diet in
addition to various regional trademarks.
 
  The Company's principal classes of products accounted for the following
percentages of worldwide sales for the past three years:
 

 
  Company products are marketed under highly competitive conditions. Products
similar to those produced and sold by the Company are available from
competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Product quality, brand recognition and
acceptance, and marketing capability largely determine success in the
Company's business segments. The financial and descriptive information on the
Company's geographic area and industry segment data, appearing in the tables
contained in Management's Discussion, is an integral part of these financial
statements. More than 60% of the Company's net sales, operating profit and
identifiable assets are attributable to overseas operations. Transfers between
geographic areas are not significant.
 
  The Company's products are generally marketed by a sales force employed by
each individual subsidiary or business unit. In some instances, distributors
and brokers are used. Most raw materials are purchased from others, are
available from several sources and are generally available in adequate supply.
Products and commodities such as tallow and essential oils are subject to wide
price variations. No one of the Company's raw materials represents a
significant portion of total material requirements.
 
  Trademarks are considered to be of material importance to the Company's
business; consequently, the practice is followed of seeking trademark
protection by all available means. Although the Company owns a number of
patents, no one patent is considered significant to the business taken as a
whole.
 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Colgate-
Palmolive Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated. Investments in companies in
which the Company's interest is between 20% and 50% are accounted for using
the equity method. The Company's share of the net income from such investments
is recorded as equity earnings and is classified as Other expense, net in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
REVENUE RECOGNITION
 
  Sales are recorded at the time products are shipped to trade customers. Net
sales reflect units shipped at selling list prices reduced by promotion
allowances.
 
USE OF ESTIMATES
 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent gains and losses at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
ACCOUNTING CHANGES
 
  In 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement
No. 128, "Earnings Per Share," which revises the manner in which earnings per
share is calculated. The Company adopted this statement as of December 31,
1997 and all per share amounts included herein have been restated accordingly.
The effect of the adoption was not material.
 
  Additionally, in 1997, the FASB issued Statement No. 130, "Reporting
Comprehensive Income," and Statement No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information." These statements, which are effective
beginning in 1998, expand and modify disclosures and, accordingly, will have
no impact on the Company's reported financial position, results of operations
or cash flows.
 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
  The Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three
months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Investments in short-
term securities that do not meet the definition of cash equivalents are
classified as marketable securities. Marketable securities are reported at
cost, which approximates market.
 
INVENTORIES
 
  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The first-in, first-
out (FIFO) method is used to value most inventories. The remaining inventories
are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.
 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
  Land, buildings, and machinery and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is provided, primarily using the straight-line method, over
estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 40 years.
 
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES
 
  Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of
identifiable tangible and intangible net assets of businesses acquired.
Goodwill and other intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over
periods not exceeding 40 years. The recoverability of carrying values of
intangible assets is evaluated on a recurring basis. The primary indicators of
recoverability are current and forecasted profitability of a related acquired
business. For the three-year period ended December 31, 1997, there were no
material adjustments to the carrying values of intangible assets resulting
from these evaluations.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
  Deferred taxes are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of
temporary differences between the amounts carried for financial reporting and
tax purposes. Provision is made currently for taxes payable on
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
remittances of overseas earnings; no provision is made for taxes on overseas
retained earnings that are deemed to be permanently reinvested.
 
TRANSLATION OF OVERSEAS CURRENCIES
 
  The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, other than those operating in
highly inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end
exchange rates, with resulting translation gains and losses accumulated in a
separate component of shareholders' equity. Income and expense items are
converted into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing during the
year.
 
  For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments, inventories,
goodwill and property, plant and equipment are translated at the rate of
exchange on the date the assets were acquired, while other assets and
liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments
for these operations are included in net income.
 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  The net effective cash payment of the interest rate swap contracts combined
with the related interest payments on the debt that they hedge are accounted
for as interest expense. Those interest rate instruments that do not qualify
as hedge instruments for accounting purposes are marked to market and recorded
at fair value.
 
  Gains and losses from foreign exchange contracts that hedge the Company's
investments in its foreign subsidiaries are shown in the cumulative
translation adjustments account included in shareholders' equity. Gains and
losses from contracts that hedge firm commitments are recorded in the balance
sheets as a component of the related receivable or payable until realized, at
which time they are recognized in the statements of income. The contracts that
hedge anticipated sales and purchases do not qualify as hedges for accounting
purposes. Accordingly, the related gains and losses are calculated using the
current forward rates and are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of
Income as Other expense, net.
 
GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
  The financial and descriptive information on the Company's geographic area
and industry segment data, appearing in the tables contained in management's
discussion of this report, is an integral part of these financial statements.
 
RECLASSIFICATIONS
 
  Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform with current
year presentation.
 
3. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
 
  The aggregate purchase price of all 1997, 1996 and 1995 acquisitions was
$20.3, $38.5 and $1,321.9. The most significant purchase was the 1995
acquisition of the worldwide Kolynos oral care business ("Kolynos") for
$1,040.0. Kolynos is an oral care business operating primarily in South
America. The transaction was structured as a multinational acquisition of
assets and stock. The net book value of Kolynos assets was approximately
$50.0.
 
  All of these acquisitions have been accounted for as purchases, and,
accordingly, the purchase prices were allocated to the net tangible and
intangible assets acquired based on estimated fair values at the dates of the
respective acquisitions. The results of operations have been included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements since the respective acquisition dates. The
inclusion of pro forma financial data for all acquisitions would not have
materially affected the financial information included herein.
 
  The aggregate sale price of all 1997, 1996 and 1995 divestitures was $101.4,
$25.1 and $2.0, respectively. In 1997, the Sterno fuel brand and related
assets were sold for $70.0.
 
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
4. LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES
 
  Long-term debt consists of the following at December 31:
 

 
  Commercial paper and certain other short-term borrowings are classified as
long-term debt as it is the Company's intent and ability to refinance such
obligations on a long-term basis. Scheduled maturities of debt outstanding at
December 31, 1997, excluding short-term borrowings reclassified, are as
follows: 1998--$178.3; 1999--$198.6; 2000--$456.8; 2001--$99.5; 2002--$162.9
and $815.0 thereafter. The Company has entered into interest rate swap
agreements and foreign exchange contracts related to certain of these debt
instruments (see Note 12).
 
  At December 31, 1997, the Company had unused credit facilities amounting to
$1,586.4. Commitment fees related to credit facilities are not material. The
weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings, excluding amounts
reclassified, as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 was 8.5% and 7.5%,
respectively.
 
  The Company's long-term debt agreements include various restrictive
covenants and require the maintenance of certain defined financial ratios with
which the Company is in compliance.
 
5. CAPITAL STOCK AND STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS
 
PREFERRED STOCK
 
  Preferred Stock consists of 250,000 authorized shares without par value. It
is issuable in series, of which one series of 125,000 shares, designated $4.25
Preferred Stock, with a stated and redeemable value of $100 per share, has
been issued and is outstanding. The $4.25 Preferred Stock is redeemable only
at the option of the Company.
 
PREFERENCE STOCK
 
  In 1988, the Company authorized the issuance of 50,000,000 shares of
Preference Stock, without par value. The Series B Convertible Preference
Stock, which is convertible into four shares of common stock, ranks junior to
all series of the Preferred Stock. At December 31, 1997 and 1996, 5,734,940
and 5,849,039 shares of Series B Convertible Preference Stock, respectively,
were outstanding and issued to the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
COMMON STOCK
 
  On March 6, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one
common stock split. As a result of the split, the shareholders received one
additional share of common stock for each share they held as of April 25,
1997. Par value remained $1. The Consolidated Financial Statements and
financial information contained elsewhere in this report has been adjusted to
reflect the effects of the impact of the common stock split for all periods
presented. In conjunction with the split, on May 8, 1997, the shareholders
approved an increase in authorized shares of common stock from 500,000,000 to
1,000,000,000.
 
SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
 
  Under the Company's Shareholder Rights Plan, each share of the Company's
common stock carries with it one Preference Share Purchase Right ("Rights").
The Rights themselves will at no time have voting power or pay dividends. The
Rights become exercisable only if a person or group acquires 20% or more of
the Company's common stock or announces a tender offer, the consummation of
which would result in ownership by a person or group of 20% or more of the
common stock. When exercisable, each Right entitles a holder to buy one four-
hundredth of a share of a new series of preference stock at an exercise price
of $43.75.
 
  If the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination, each
Right will entitle a holder to buy, at the Right's then current exercise
price, a number of the acquiring company's common shares having a market value
of twice such price. In addition, if a person or group acquires 30% or more of
the Company's common stock, other than pursuant to a cash tender offer for all
shares in which such person or group increases its stake from below 20% to 80%
or more of the outstanding shares, each Right will entitle its holder (other
than such person or members of such group) to purchase, at the Right's then
current exercise price, a number of shares of the Company's common stock
having a market value of twice the Right's exercise price.
 
  Further, at any time after a person or group acquires 30% or more (but less
than 50%) of the Company's common stock, the Board of Directors may, at its
option, exchange part or all of the Rights (other than Rights held by the
acquiring person or group) for shares of the Company's common stock on a one-
for-one basis.
 
  The Company, at the option of its Board of Directors, may redeem the Rights
for $.005 at any time before the acquisition by a person or group of
beneficial ownership of 20% or more of its common stock. The Board of
Directors is also authorized to reduce the 20% and 30% thresholds to not less
than 15%. Unless redeemed earlier, the Rights will expire on October 24, 1998.
 
INCENTIVE STOCK PLAN
 
  The Company has a plan which provides for grants of restricted stock awards
for officers and other executives of the Company and its major subsidiaries. A
committee of non-employee members of the Board of Directors administers the
plan. During 1997 and 1996, 335,270 and 252,458 shares, respectively, were
awarded to employees in accordance with the provisions of the plan.
 
STOCK OPTION PLANS
 
  The Company's Stock Option Plans ("Plans") provide for the issuance of non-
qualified stock options to officers and key employees. Options are granted at
prices not less than the fair market value on the date of grant. At 1997 year-
end, 23,173,483 shares of common stock were available for future grants.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
  The Plans contain an accelerated ownership feature which provides for the
grant of new options when previously owned shares of Company stock are used to
exercise existing options. The number of new options granted under this
feature is equal to the number of shares of previously owned Company stock
used to exercise the original options and to pay the related required U.S.
income tax. The new options are granted at a price equal to the fair market
value on the date of the new grant and have the same expiration date as the
original options exercised.
 
  Stock option plan activity is summarized below:
 

 
  The following table summarizes information relating to currently outstanding
and exercisable options as of December 31, 1997:
 

 
  The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations in accounting for
options granted under the Plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been
recognized. Had compensation expense been determined based on the Black-
Scholes option pricing model value at the grant date for awards in 1997, 1996
and 1995 consistent with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS 123), the
Company's net income, basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per
common share would have been $716.1, $2.35 per share and $2.19 per share,
respectively, in 1997; $621.7, $2.05 per share and $1.92 per share,
respectively, in 1996; and $166.1, $.50 per share and $.49 per share,
respectively, in 1995.
 
  The weighted average Black-Scholes value of grants issued in 1997, 1996 and
1995 was $7.85, $5.40 and $4.73, respectively. The Black-Scholes value of each
option granted is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with
the following assumptions: option term until exercise ranging from 2 to 7
years, volatility ranging from 17% to 26%, risk- free interest rate ranging
from 5.8% to 6.4% and an expected dividend yield of
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
2.5%. The Black-Scholes model used to determine the option values shown above
was developed to estimate the fair value of short-term freely tradable, fully
transferable options without vesting restrictions and was not designed to
value reloads, all of which significantly differ from the Company's stock
option awards. The value of this model is also limited by the inclusion of
highly subjective assumptions which greatly affect calculated values.
 
6. EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN
 
  In 1989, the Company expanded its Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP")
through the introduction of a leveraged ESOP covering certain employees who
have met certain eligibility requirements. The ESOP issued $410.0 of long-term
notes due through 2009 bearing an average interest rate of 8.6%. The long-term
notes, which are guaranteed by the Company, are reflected in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The ESOP used the proceeds of the notes to
purchase 6.3 million shares of Series B Convertible Preference Stock from the
Company. The Stock has a minimum redemption price of $65 per share and pays
semiannual dividends equal to the higher of $2.44 or the current dividend paid
on four common shares for the comparable six-month period.
 
  Dividends on these preferred shares, as well as common shares also held by
the ESOP, are paid to the ESOP trust and, together with contributions, are
used by the ESOP to repay principal and interest on the outstanding notes.
Preferred shares are released for allocation to participants based upon the
ratio of the current year's debt service to the sum of total principal and
interest payments over the life of the loan. At December 31, 1997, 1,412,570
shares were allocated to participant accounts. Each allocated share may be
converted by the trustee into four common shares, but preferred shares
generally only convert after the employee ceases to work for the Company.
 
  Dividends on these preferred shares are deductible for income tax purposes
and, accordingly, are reflected net of their tax benefit in the Consolidated
Statements of Retained Earnings.
 
  Annual expense related to the leveraged ESOP, determined as interest
incurred on the notes, less employee contributions and dividends received on
the shares held by the ESOP, plus the higher of either principal repayments on
the notes or the cost of shares allocated, was $3.0 in 1997, $3.9 in 1996 and
$8.3 in 1995. Similarly, unearned compensation, shown as a reduction in
shareholders' equity, is reduced by the higher of principal payments or the
cost of shares allocated.
 
  Interest incurred on the ESOP's notes amounted to $33.0 in 1997, $33.5 in
1996 and $33.9 in 1995. The Company paid dividends on the stock held by the
ESOP of $29.8 in 1997, $31.1 in 1996 and $31.7 in 1995. Company contributions
to the ESOP were $1.0 in 1997, $4.1 in 1996 and $6.4 in 1995. Employee
contributions to the ESOP were $8.2 in 1997, $5.9 in 1996 and $0 in 1995.
 
7. RETIREMENT PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
 
RETIREMENT PLANS
 
  The Company, its U.S. subsidiaries and a majority of its overseas
subsidiaries maintain pension plans covering substantially all of their
employees. Most plans provide pension benefits that are based primarily on
years of service and employees' career earnings. In the Company's principal
U.S. plans, funds are contributed to trusts in accordance with regulatory
limits to provide for current service and for any unfunded projected benefit
obligation over a reasonable period. To the extent these requirements are
exceeded by plan assets, a contribution may not be made in a particular year.
Plan assets consist principally of common stocks, guaranteed investment
contracts with insurance companies, investments in real estate funds and U.S.
Government obligations.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
  Net periodic pension expense of the plans includes the following components:
 

 
  The following table sets forth the funded status of the plans at December
31:
 

 
  The actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation
of the plans were as follows:
 

 
  When remeasuring the pension obligation, the Company reassesses each
actuarial assumption. The settlement rate assumption is pegged to long-term
bond rates to reflect the cost to satisfy the pension obligation currently,
while the other assumptions reflect the long-term outlook of rates of
compensation increases and return on assets.
 
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
OTHER POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
 
  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries provide health care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees to the extent not provided by
government-sponsored plans. The Company utilizes a portion of its leveraged
ESOP, in the form of future retiree contributions, to reduce its obligation to
provide these postretirement benefits. Postretirement benefits are not
otherwise currently funded.
 
  Postretirement benefits expense includes the following components:
 

 
  The actuarial present value of postretirement benefit obligations included
in Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets is comprised of the
following components, at December 31:
 

 
  The principal actuarial assumptions used in the measurement of the
accumulated benefit obligation were as follows:
 

 
  When remeasuring the accumulated benefit obligation, the Company reassesses
each actuarial assumption. The cost of these postretirement medical benefits
is dependent upon a number of factors, the most significant of which is the
rate at which medical costs increase in the future. The effect of a 1%
increase in the assumed medical cost trend rate would increase the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $13.2; annual expense would
increase by $2.1.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
8. INCOME TAXES
 
  The provision for income taxes consists of the following for the years ended
December 31:
 

 
  Differences between accounting for financial statement purposes and
accounting for tax purposes result in taxes currently payable being (lower)
higher than the total provision for income taxes as follows:
 

 
  The components of income before income taxes are as follows for the three
years ended December 31:
 

 
  The difference between the statutory United States federal income tax rate
and the Company's global effective tax rate as reflected in the Consolidated
Statements of Income is as follows:
 

 
  In addition, net tax benefits of $49.2 in 1997 and $32.6 in 1996 were
recorded directly through equity.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
  The components of deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows at
December 31:
 

 
  The major component of the 1997 and 1996 valuation allowance relates to tax
benefits in certain jurisdictions not expected to be realized.
 
9. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
 
  Cumulative translation adjustments, which represent the effect of
translating assets and liabilities of the Company's non-U.S. entities, except
those in highly inflationary economies, were as follows:
 

 
   Foreign currency charges, resulting from the translation of balance sheets
of subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments and from foreign
currency transactions, are included in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
10. SUPPLEMENTAL INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
 

 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 

 
11. SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
 

 
   Inventories valued under LIFO amounted to $157.9 and $203.7 at December 31,
1997 and 1996, respectively. The excess of current cost over LIFO cost at the
end of each year was $46.7 and $52.6, respectively. The liquidations of LIFO
inventory quantities increased income by $0, $1.4 and $1.4 in 1997, 1996 and
1995, respectively.
 

 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 

 
12. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  The Company utilizes interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency
exchange contracts to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures.
(See the Management's Discussion and Analysis--Derivative Financial
Instruments for further discussion.) In assessing the fair value of financial
instruments at December 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company has used available
market information and other valuation methodologies. Some judgment is
necessarily required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of
fair value, and, accordingly, the estimates are not necessarily indicative of
the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange.
 
  The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities,
long-term investments and short-term debt approximated fair value as of
December 31, 1997 and 1996. The estimated fair value of the Company's
remaining financial instruments at December 31 are summarized as follows:
 

 
  As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company had interest rate agreements
outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $929.8 and $1,210.9,
respectively, with maturities through 2011.
 
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
  As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company had approximately $657.2 and
$676.9, respectively, of out-standing foreign exchange contracts. At December
31, 1997, approximately 8% of outstanding foreign exchange contracts served to
hedge net investments in foreign subsidiaries, 36% hedged intercompany loans
and 56% hedged third-party debt and other firm commitments.
 
  The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
counterparties on interest rate agreements and foreign exchange contracts;
however, nonperformance by these counterparties is considered remote as it is
the Company's policy to contract with diversified counterparties that have a
long-term debt rating of A or higher. The amount of any such exposure is
generally the unrealized gain on such contracts, which at December 31, 1997
was not significant.
 
13. RESTRUCTURED OPERATIONS
 
  In September 1995, the Company announced a major worldwide restructuring of
its manufacturing and administrative operations, primarily in North America
and Europe, designed to further enhance profitable growth over the next
several years by generating significant efficiencies and improving
competitiveness. The worldwide restructuring program resulted in a 1995 pretax
charge of $460.5 ($369.2 net of tax) or $1.27 per share for the year. The
charge includes employee termination costs, expenses associated with the
realignment of the Company's global manufacturing operations as well as
settlement of contractual obligations. As a result of this rationalization, 20
of the 112 factories worldwide have been closed or reconfigured as of December
1997. The restructuring will be substantially completed during 1998 in
facilities around the world.
 
  A summary of the restructuring reserve established is as follows:
 

 
  Of the restructuring reserve remaining as of December 31, 1997 and 1996,
$79.0 and $115.2, respectively, is classified as a current liability, $0 and
$38.0, respectively, as a noncurrent liability, and $20.2 and $50.0,
respectively, as a reduction of fixed assets.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 
14. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 

 
15. MARKET AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION
 
  The Company's common stock and $4.25 Preferred Stock are listed on the New
York Stock Exchange. The trading symbol for the common stock is CL. Dividends
on the common stock have been paid every year since 1895, and the amount of
dividends paid per share has increased for 35 consecutive years.
 
MARKET PRICE
 

 
DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE
 
                                        
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 
16. EARNINGS PER SHARE
 

- --------
* The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of
  antidilutive securities for 1995.
 
17. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
  Minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases, primarily
for office and warehouse facilities, are $65.2 in 1998, $56.4 in 1999, $53.3
in 2000, $46.4 in 2001, $43.9 in 2002 and $164.1 thereafter. Rental expense
amounted to $94.4 in 1997, $93.3 in 1996 and $91.8 in 1995. Contingent
rentals, sublease income and capital leases, which are included in fixed
assets, are not significant.
 
  The Company has various contractual commitments to purchase raw materials,
products and services totaling $152.2 that expire through 1999.
 
  The Company is a party to various superfund and other environmental matters
and is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, taxes and other matters
arising out of the normal course of business. Management proactively reviews
and manages its exposure to, and the impact of, environmental matters. While
it is possible that the Company's cash flows and results of operations in
particular quarterly or annual periods could be affected by the one-time
impacts of the resolution of such contingencies, it is the opinion of
management that the ultimate disposition of these matters, to the extent not
previously provided for, will not have a material impact on the Company's
financial condition or ongoing cash flows and results of operations.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

- --------
NOTES:
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
 
(2) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
    benefits which more likely than not will not be utilized in the future.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

- --------
NOTES:
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
 
(2) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
    benefits which more likely than not will not be utilized in the future.
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

- --------
NOTES:
 
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
 
(2) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
    benefits which more likely than not will not be utilized in the future.
 
(3) Allowance for tax benefits from restructured operations in certain
    jurisdictions not expected to be realized.
 
(4) Other adjustments.
 

 
                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
 Colgate-Palmolive Company:
 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Colgate-
Palmolive Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1997 and 1996, and the related consolidated statements of income, retained
earnings, changes in capital accounts and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These financial statements and
the schedules referred to below are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedules based on our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Colgate-Palmolive Company
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.
 
  Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedules listed in the index to
financial statements are presented for purposes of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not part of the basic
financial statements. These schedules have been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly state in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.
 
                                          /S/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
New York, New York
February 2, 1998
 

 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                        HISTORICAL FINANCIAL SUMMARY(1)
                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)
 

- -------
(1) All share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect both the
    1997 and the 1991 two-for-one stock splits.
(2) Income in 1995 includes a net provision for restructured operations of
    $369.2. (Excluding the charge, earnings per share would have been $1.79,
    basic and $1.67, diluted.)
(3) Income in 1994 includes a one-time charge of $5.2 for the sale of a non-
    core business, Princess House.
(4) Income in 1993 includes a one-time impact of adopting new mandated
    accounting standards, effective in the first quarter of 1993, of $358.2.
    (Excluding this charge, earnings per share would have been $1.69, basic
    and $1.58, diluted.)
(5) Income in 1991 includes a net provision for restructured operations of
    $243.0. (Excluding this charge, earnings per share would have been $1.28,
    basic and $1.20, diluted.)
(6) Income in 1988 includes Hill's service agreement renegotiation net charge
    of $42.0. (Excluding this charge, earnings per share would have been $.71,
    basic and $.70, diluted.)
(7) Due to timing differences, 1988 includes three dividend declarations
    totaling $.28 per share and four payments totaling $.37 per share while
    all other years include four dividend declarations.
 

 
 
                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
 
                             EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K
 
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-644
 


 

- --------
* Registrant hereby undertakes upon request to furnish the Commission with a
  copy of any instrument with respect to long-term debt where the total amount
  of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets
  of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

 
  The exhibits indicated above which are not included with the Form 10-K are
available upon request and payment of a reasonable fee approximating the
registrant's cost of providing and mailing the exhibits. Inquiries should be
directed to:
 
                                          Colgate-Palmolive Company
                                          Office of the Secretary (10-K
                                           Exhibits)
                                          300 Park Avenue
                                          New York, New York 10022-7499

