
10-K405
d10k405.txt
FORM 10-K FOR PERIOD ENDING 12/31/2000




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                               ----------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
(X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                      OR

[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    For the transition period from  to .

                         Commission File Number 1-644

                               ----------------

                       [LOGO] Colgate-Palmolive Company

            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               DELAWARE                              13-1815595
    (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)

  300 Park Avenue, New York, New York                   10022
    (Address of principal executive                  (Zip Code)
               offices)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code 212-310-2000
          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

          Title of each class              Name of each exchange on which
                                                     registered

  $4.25 Preferred Stock, without par
       value,cumulative dividend               New York Stock Exchange


     Common Stock, $1.00 par value             New York Stock Exchange

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X  No

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

  At February 28, 2001 the aggregate market value of stock held by non-
affiliates was $33.3 billion. There were 563,630,696 shares of Common Stock
outstanding as of February 28, 2001.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

               Documents                         Form 10-K Reference


  Portions of Proxy Statement for the       Part III, Items 10 through 13
          2001 Annual Meeting


                                    PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

 (a) General Development of the Business

  Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company"),
which was organized under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923, is a
leading consumer products company whose products are marketed in over 200
countries and territories throughout the world.

  For recent business developments, refer to the information set forth under
the captions "Results of Operations", "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and
"Outlook" in Part II, Item 7 of this report.

 (b) Financial Information About Industry Segments

  Worldwide net sales and earnings by business segment and geographic region
during the last three years appear under the caption "Results of Operations"
in Part II, Item 7 of this report on pages 6 and 7.

 (c) Narrative Description of the Business

  The Company manages its business in two distinct product segments: Oral,
Personal and Household Care, and Pet Nutrition. Colgate is a global leader in
Oral Care with the leading toothpaste brand in the U.S. and throughout many
parts of the world. Colgate's Oral Care products include toothbrushes,
toothpaste, mouth rinses and dental floss, and pharmaceutical products for
dentists and other oral health professionals. Significant recent product
launches in this segment include Colgate Fresh Confidence, Colgate Sparkling
White and Colgate Total Plus Whitening toothpastes, and the Colgate Actibrush
battery-powered toothbrush.

  Colgate leads many segments of the Personal Care market with several
products including bar and liquid soaps, shampoos, conditioners, deodorants
and antiperspirants and shave products. Colgate is the market leader in liquid
soaps in the U.S. and globally is the market leader in male deodorant sticks.
Strong brands in this segment include Irish Spring, Softsoap brand liquid soap
and Palmolive, which is available as a soap and, in many countries, as a
shampoo and conditioner. Colgate also manufactures and markets Mennen
deodorants and men's toiletries.

  Colgate manufactures and markets a wide array of products for Household
Care. Major products include Palmolive and Ajax dishwashing liquid and
antibacterial hand soaps and new Palmolive Spring Sensations dishwashing
liquid. Colgate also markets other household names in cleaning and laundry
products such as Fab, Ajax and Murphy's oil soap which is North America's
leading wood floor cleaner. In the Company's major markets outside the U.S.,
Colgate is number one in fabric softeners with leading brands Suavitel in
Latin America, Soupline in Europe and Softlan in Asia.

  Sales of Oral, Personal, Household and Fabric Care products accounted for
34%, 24%, 16% and 14% of total worldwide sales in 2000, respectively.
Geographically, Oral Care is a significant part of the Company's business in
Asia/Africa, comprising approximately 54% of sales in that region for 2000.
See also Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  Colgate, through its Hill's Pet Nutrition subsidiary, is the world leader in
specialty pet nutrition products for dogs and cats. Hill's markets pet foods
primarily under two trademarks: Science Diet, which is sold by authorized pet
supply retailers, breeders and veterinarians for every day nutritional needs,
and Prescription Diet for dogs and cats with disease conditions. Hill's
recently relaunched the entire Science Diet line and added several innovative
products to both the Science Diet and Prescription Diet brands. Hill's sells
its products in 85 countries and leads the premium pet food segment in Japan.
Sales of Pet Nutrition products accounted for 12% of total worldwide sales in
2000.



Research and Development

  Strong research and development capabilities enable Colgate to support its
many brands with technologically sophisticated products for consumers'
personal needs and pet nutrition needs. During 2000, the Company spent $176.1
million on research and development activities.

Distribution; Competition; Trademarks and Patents

  The Company's products are generally marketed by a direct sales force at
each individual operating subsidiary or business unit. In some instances,
distributors or brokers are used. No single customer accounts for as much as
10% of the Company's sales.

  Most raw materials are purchased from other companies and are available from
several sources. While it is generally the Company's policy to streamline
supply chain sources, raw materials used in the manufacture of the Company's
products are generally available in adequate supply. Raw material commodities
such as tallow and essential oils are subject to wide price variations. No one
raw material represents a significant portion of the Company's total material
requirements.

  The Company's products are marketed under highly competitive conditions.
Products similar to those produced and sold by the Company are available from
competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Certain of the Company's competitors are
larger and have greater resources than the Company. Product quality, brand
recognition and acceptance and marketing capability largely determine success
in the Company's business segments.

  Trademarks are considered to be of material importance to the Company's
business. The Company follows a practice of seeking trademark protection by
all available means in the United States and throughout the world where the
Company's products are sold. Principal global trademarks include Colgate,
Palmolive, Mennen, Protex, Ajax, Soupline, Suavitel, Fab, Science Diet and
Prescription Diet in addition to several regional trademarks. These trademarks
are of significant importance to the Company and its subsidiaries within their
markets. The Company's rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they
are used and registered. Although the Company owns a number of patents, no one
patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.

Employees

  At year-end, the Company employed approximately 38,300 employees of which
approximately 80% were located outside the United States.

Environmental Matters

  Compliance with environmental rules and regulations has not significantly
affected the Company's earnings or competitive position. Capital expenditures
for environmental control facilities totaled $15.3 million for 2000. For
future years, expenditures are expected to be in the same range. The Company
has programs that are designed to ensure that its operations and facilities
meet or exceed applicable rules and regulations. Please refer to Note 14 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 (d) Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export
 Sales

  For information concerning geographic area financial data refer to the
information set forth under the caption "Results of Operations" in Part II,
Item 7 of this report.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

  The Company owns and leases a total of 280 manufacturing, distribution,
research and office facilities worldwide. Corporate headquarters is housed in
leased facilities at 300 Park Avenue, New York, New York.

  In the United States, the Company operates 43 facilities, of which 21 are
owned. Major U.S. manufacturing and warehousing facilities used by the Oral,
Personal and Household Care segment are located in Kansas City, Kansas;
Morristown, New Jersey; Jeffersonville, Indiana, and Cambridge, Ohio. The Pet
Nutrition segment has major facilities in Bowling Green, Kentucky; Topeka,
Kansas; Commerce, California; and Richmond, Indiana. Research facilities are
located throughout the world with the primary research center for Oral,
Personal and Household Care products located in Piscataway, New Jersey and the
primary research center for Pet Nutrition products located in Topeka, Kansas.

  Overseas, the Company operates 237 facilities, of which 92 are owned, in
over 70 countries. Major overseas facilities used by the Oral, Personal and
Household Care segment are located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China,
Colombia, France, Italy, Mexico, Thailand, the United Kingdom and elsewhere
throughout the world. In some areas outside the United States, products are
either manufactured by independent contractors under Company specifications or
are imported from the United States or elsewhere.

  All facilities operated by the Company are, in general, well maintained and
adequate for the purpose for which they are intended. The Company conducts
continuing reviews of its facilities with the view to modernization and cost
reduction.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  In 1995, the Company acquired the Kolynos oral care business from American
Home Products, as described in the Company's Form 8-K dated January 10, 1995.
On September 8, 1998, the Company's Brazilian subsidiary received notice of an
administrative proceeding from the Central Bank of Brazil primarily taking
issue with certain filings made with the Central Bank in connection with the
financing of this strategic transaction, but in no way challenging or seeking
to unwind the acquisition. The Central Bank of Brazil in January 2001 notified
the Company of its decision in this administrative proceeding to impose a fine
which, at current exchange rates, approximates $125 million. The Company has
appealed the decision to the Brazilian Monetary System Appeals Council,
thereby suspending the fine pending the decision of the Council. Further
appeals are available within the Brazilian federal courts. Management
believes, based on the opinion of its Brazilian legal counsel and other
experts, that the filings challenged by the Central Bank fully complied with
Brazilian law and that the Company will prevail on appeal. The Company intends
to challenge this fine vigorously.

  For information regarding other legal matters refer to Note 14 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.



ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

  None.

                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  The following is a list of executive officers as of March 28, 2001:



  Each of the executive officers listed above has served the registrant or its
subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years.

  The Company By-Laws, paragraph 38, states: The officers of the corporation
shall hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified
in their stead, or until they have resigned, retired or been removed in the
manner hereinafter provided. Any officer elected or appointed by the board of
directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of
the whole board of directors.




                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

  Refer to the information regarding the market for the Company's Common Stock
and the quarterly market price information appearing under the caption "Market
and Dividend Information" included herein; the information under "Capital
Stock and Stock Compensation Plans" in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included herein; and the "Number of shareholders of record" and
"Cash dividends declared and paid per common share" under the caption
"Historical Financial Summary" included herein.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

  Refer to the information set forth under the caption "Historical Financial
Summary" included herein.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Results of Operations

- --------
(/1/Net)sales in the United States for Oral, Personal and Household Care were
    $2,025.7, $1,880.8 and $1,799.6 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
(/2/Net)sales in the United States for Pet Nutrition were $736.0, $709.2 and
    $688.6 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Net Sales and Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT)

  Worldwide net sales increased 3% to $9,357.9 in 2000 on volume growth of 6%.
Net sales would have grown 7% excluding foreign currency translation. Net
sales in the Oral, Personal and Household Care segment increased 2% on 6%
volume growth, while net sales and volume in Pet Nutrition increased by 5%. In
1999, worldwide net sales increased 2% to $9,118.2 on volume growth of 5%,
reflecting the negative impact of foreign currency translation.

  EBIT rose from $1,566.2 in 1999 to $1,740.5 in 2000. The 11% increase
reflected the Company's strong volume growth and cost-control initiatives that
were effective in increasing margins. EBIT increased 10% in 1999 to $1,566.2
from $1,423.0 in 1998.

Gross Profit

  Gross profit margin increased to 54.4%, above both the 1999 level of 53.7%
and the 1998 level of 52.2%. This favorable trend continues to reflect the
Company's financial strategy to improve all aspects of its supply



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

chain through global sourcing, restructuring and other cost-reduction
initiatives, as well as its emphasis on higher margin products.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were
35% in 2000, 36% in 1999 and 36% in 1998. The overall spending as a percentage
of sales declined slightly as a result of the Company's continued focus on
expense containment, offset by higher advertising costs.

Other Expense, Net

  Other expense, net, consists principally of amortization of goodwill and
other intangible assets, minority interest in earnings of less-than-100%-owned
consolidated subsidiaries, earnings from equity investments, gains on sale of
real estate and non-core product lines, and other miscellaneous gains and
losses. Other expense, net, decreased in 2000 from $73.6 to $52.3 primarily
due to unrealized gains of $15.4 on foreign currency contracts.

  Items included in other expense, net during 2000 were one-time charges of
$92.7 ($61.2 aftertax), including a restructuring charge recorded in the
fourth quarter related to the realignment of certain manufacturing operations
and the exiting of our business in Nigeria. Also included are one-time gains
of $102.0 ($60.9 aftertax) recorded on the sale of real estate and the sale of
our Viva detergent brand in Mexico.

  During 1999 the Company incurred one-time charges related to the exiting of
certain activities, such as the manufacture of aluminum tubes in Brazil. These
charges were offset by a gain of $33.0 ($17.6 aftertax) recorded on the sale
of the U.S. Baby Magic brand and a gain of $17.4 ($11.4 aftertax) on the sale
of real estate.





Segment Results

 North America

  North America achieved strong results for the year. Net sales grew 8% to
$2,310.0 as unit volume rose 8% driven by the introduction of new products in
all core categories. These new products included the battery-powered Colgate
Actibrush toothbrush, Colgate 2in1 toothpaste & mouthwash, and Colgate
Sensitive Maximum Strength and Colgate Sparkling White toothpastes. In the
Personal Care category, the launch of Softsoap Fruit Essentials body wash and
hand soap and Softsoap 2-in-1 with moisturizing lotion boosted sales and
market shares as well. In 1999, North America achieved overall sales growth
excluding divestments of 6% to $2,143.7 on volume growth of 8%.




(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

  EBIT for North America was up 17% to $482.4. The region achieved earnings
growth through volume gains, higher gross profit margins and continued focus
on cost control. EBIT in 1999 was up 4% to $413.0.

 Latin America

  Net sales in Latin America increased 6% to $2,507.5 on 6% volume growth led
by strong growth in Mexico, Brazil, Venezuela and Central America. The
regional introduction of Colgate Fresh Confidence gel toothpaste as well as
Palmolive Botanicals shampoo and soap strengthened market shares in the Oral
and Personal Care categories. In 1999, Latin America net sales decreased 2% to
$2,356.7 on 3% volume growth.

  EBIT in Latin America increased 13% to $603.1 as a result of continued
efforts in cost reduction, selective selling price increases and higher
margins. EBIT in 1999 was up 7% to $535.7 due to selective selling price
increases and lower advertising expenditures in Brazil.

 Europe

  Net sales in Europe declined 7% to $1,890.1 as unit volume gains of 4% were
offset by the weakened euro. Germany, Italy, the Nordic Group and the
Netherlands achieved the strongest volume increases in the region. The Colgate
Actibrush, and Colgate Fresh Confidence and Colgate Whitening toothpastes led
Oral Care market growth in the region. Market share growth in the Personal and
Household Care categories coupled with the introduction of new products such
as Ajax Shower Power cleaner, Palmolive Actif men's shower gel and Palmolive
Spring Sensations dishwashing liquid contributed to increased volumes in
Europe. In 1999, Europe net sales declined 2% to $2,028.8, due primarily to
the weakened euro, while volume grew 2%.

  EBIT for Europe decreased 6% to $320.0 as a result of foreign currency
weakness. EBIT in 1999 rose 8% to $342.0 due to higher margins and higher
volumes.

 Asia/Africa

  Net sales in the Asia/Africa region excluding divestments increased 2% to
$1,532.0 as volume grew 7% with the strongest performance in China, India and
the Philippines. China continued to experience significant growth through
introduction of new products such as Softlan fabric softener and Palmolive
Naturals shampoo as well as its newly formed majority-owned joint venture with
China's leading toothbrush manufacturer. Throughout the region the Company
continues to benefit from the success of products such as the Colgate
Actibrush toothbrush and Colgate Fresh Confidence and Colgate Herbal
toothpastes. In 1999, net sales in the Asia/Africa region increased 5% to
$1,519.7 as volume increased 7%.

  EBIT grew 16% in Asia/Africa to $194.0 driven by increased volumes across
the region. EBIT in 1999 grew 5% to $166.7.

 Pet Nutrition

  Net sales for Hill's Pet Nutrition increased 5% to $1,118.3 on 5% volume
growth. North American sales increased due to the introduction of new products
including Science Diet products for sensitive skin and sensitive stomach, as
well as the relaunch of the entire Science Diet line with a proprietary
antioxidant formulation. Strong growth occurred in Japan, Europe and Latin
America due to the introduction of new feline varieties and improvements in
the entire dry cat food line, complemented by increased advertising. In 1999,
net sales for the Pet Nutrition segment increased 7% to $1,069.3 on 8% volume
gains.

  EBIT in the Pet Nutrition segment grew 11% to $243.5 driven by volume and
cost-improvement initiatives. EBIT in 1999 increased 27% to $219.9 on both
higher volumes and lower raw material costs.




(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Interest Expense, Net

  Interest expense, net, was $173.3 compared with $171.6 in 1999 and $172.9 in
1998. The increase in net interest expense in 2000 reflected increased average
debt levels related to increased share repurchases during the year compared
with 1999.

Income Taxes

  The effective tax rate on income was 32.1% in 2000 versus 32.8% in 1999 and
32.1% in 1998. Global tax planning strategies, including the realization of
tax credits, benefited the effective tax rate in all three years presented.

Net Income

  Net income was $1,063.8 in 2000 or $1.70 per share on a diluted basis
compared with $937.3 in 1999 or $1.47 per share and $848.6 in 1998 or $1.30
per share.



- --------
(/1/Long-lived)assets in the United States, primarily fixed assets and
    goodwill, represented approximately one-third of total long-lived assets
    of $4,813.3, $4,952.3 and $5,330.0 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

  Net cash provided by operations increased 19% to $1,536.2 compared with
$1,292.7 in 1999 and $1,178.8 in 1998. The increases reflect the Company's
improved profitability and working capital management. Cash generated from
operations was used to fund capital spending, increase dividends and
repurchase common shares.

  During 2000, long-term debt increased to $2,857.1 from $2,582.2 and total
debt increased to $2,978.2 from $2,789.5 primarily due to increased share
repurchases.

  As of December 31, 2000, $436.1 of domestic and foreign commercial paper was
outstanding. These borrowings carry a Standard & Poor's rating of A1 and a
Moody's rating of P1. The commercial paper as well as other short-term
borrowings are classified as long-term debt at December 31, 2000, as it is the
Company's intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term
basis. The Company has additional sources of liquidity available in the form
of lines of credit maintained with various banks. At December 31, 2000, such
unused lines of credit amounted to $1,398.1. In addition, at December 31,
2000, the Company had $438.2 available under a shelf registration filed in
2000.

  As of December 31, 1999, $477.3 of domestic and foreign commercial paper was
outstanding. An unused line of credit of approximately $1,527.9 was available.



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  The ratio of EBITDA (defined as earnings before interest, income taxes,
depreciation and amortization) to interest expense increased to 10.4 in 2000
from 9.0 in 1999 and 8.6 in 1998. The ratio has increased each year consistent
with the Company's trend of higher earnings.



  Capital expenditures were 4% of net sales for 2000, 1999 and 1998. Capital
spending continues to be focused primarily on projects that yield high
aftertax returns. Capital expenditures for 2001 are expected to continue at
the current rate of approximately 4% of net sales.

  Other investing activities in 2000, 1999 and 1998 included strategic
acquisitions and divestitures around the world. The aggregate purchase price
of all 2000, 1999 and 1998 acquisitions was $64.9, $46.4 and $22.6,
respectively. The Mexico Viva detergent brand was sold in 2000, U.S. Baby
Magic brand was sold in 1999 and the HandiWipes brand was sold in 1998. The
aggregate sale price of all 2000, 1999 and 1998 sales of brands was $102.5,
$94.7 and $57.4, respectively.

  In 1993, the Company participated in the formation of a financing subsidiary
with outside investors. The Company consolidated this entity and reported the
amounts invested by outside investors as a minority interest. During 2000 this
subsidiary ceased operations resulting in a cash payment of $113.9 to the
outside investors.

  The Company repurchases common shares in open market and private
transactions for employee benefit plans and to maintain its targeted capital
structure. Aggregate repurchases for 2000 were 19.1 million shares, with a
total purchase price of $1,040.6. In 1999, 12.8 million shares were
repurchased, with a total purchase price of $624.4.

  Dividend payments were $382.4, up from $366.0 in 1999 and $345.6 in 1998.
Common stock dividend payments increased to $.63 per share in 2000 from $.59
per share in 1999 and $.55 per share in 1998. The Series B Preference Stock
dividends were declared and paid at the rate of $5.04 per share in 2000, $4.96
per share in 1999 and $4.88 in 1998.




(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

  Internally generated cash flows are adequate to support currently planned
business operations, acquisitions and capital expenditures. Significant
acquisitions would require external financing.

  The Company is a party to various superfund and other environmental matters
and is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, taxes and other matters
arising out of the normal course of business. Management proactively reviews
and manages its exposure to, and the impact of, environmental matters. While
it is possible that the Company's cash flows and results of operations in a
particular quarter or year could be affected by the one-time impacts of the
resolution of such contingencies, it is the opinion of management that the
ultimate disposition of these matters, to the extent not previously provided
for, will not have a material impact on the Company's financial position or
ongoing cash flows and results of operations.

Restructuring Reserves

  In December 2000 the Company recorded a charge of $63.9 ($42.5 aftertax)
associated with the realignment of three manufacturing locations in Latin
America and the exiting of our business in Nigeria. The charge recorded
included $14.2 for termination costs and $49.7 for exiting of manufacturing
operations. At December 31, 2000, the remaining reserve of $7.2 is classified
as a current liability representing termination costs for 979 employees to be
paid during 2001.

  In September 1995, a reserve of $460.5 was established to cover a worldwide
restructuring of manufacturing and administrative operations. The cost of
completing the restructuring activities approximated the original estimate.
The planned restructuring projects, primarily in North America and Europe but
also affecting Hill's Pet Nutrition and Colgate locations in Asia/Africa and
certain Latin America locations, were completed as of December 31, 2000.

Managing Foreign Currency and Interest Rate Exposure

  The Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations and interest rates. To manage the volatility relating to foreign
currency exposures on a consolidated basis, the Company utilizes a number of
techniques, including selective borrowings in local currencies, purchases of
forward foreign currency exchange contracts, balance sheet management and
increases in selling prices.

  The Company operates in over 200 countries and territories and is exposed to
currency fluctuation related to manufacturing and selling its products in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The major foreign currency exposures
involve the markets in the European Union, Mexico and Brazil, which represent
13%, 11% and 5%, respectively, of 2000 worldwide sales. The Company actively
monitors its foreign currency exposures in these markets and has been able to
offset the impact of foreign currency rate movements through a combination of
selling price increases, cost-containment measures and foreign currency
hedging activities. The Company primarily utilizes forward exchange and
currency swap contracts to hedge portions of its exposures relating to foreign
currency purchases and sales, as well as assets and liabilities created in the
normal course of business.

  The Company utilizes simple instruments such as interest rate swaps to
manage the Company's mix of fixed and floating rate debt. The Company's target
floating rate obligations as a percentage of the Company's global debt is set
by policy.

  It is the Company's policy to enter into foreign exchange and interest rate
swap contracts with diversified and reputable counterparties and as such, the
Company does not anticipate non-performance by any counterparty.

Value at Risk

  The Company's risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest
rate and foreign exchange exposures and the Company's offsetting hedge
positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value,



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk estimations. However, the use of these
techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be
construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related
assumptions. The Company utilizes a Value-at-Risk (VAR) model and an Earnings-
at-Risk (EAR) model that are intended to measure the maximum potential loss in
its interest rate and foreign exchange financial instruments assuming adverse
market conditions occur, given a 95% confidence level. The models utilize a
variance/covariance modeling technique. Historical interest rates and foreign
exchange rates from the preceding year are used to estimate the volatility and
correlation of future rates.

  The estimated maximum potential one-day loss in fair value of interest rate
or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated using the VAR model, is not
material to the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows of the Company. The estimated maximum yearly loss in earnings due to
interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated utilizing the
EAR model, is not material to the Company's results of operations. Actual
results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due
to actual developments in the global financial markets.

  A discussion of the Company's accounting policies for financial instruments
is included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, and further disclosure relating to
financial instruments is included in the Fair Value of Financial Instruments
note.

Accounting Changes

  In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS 133, as amended,
establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative
instrument be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability
measured at its fair value. The statement requires that changes in the
derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings or other
comprehensive income depending on whether a derivative is designated as part
of a hedge transaction. The adoption of SFAS 133 on January 1, 2001 did not
result in a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

  In July 2000, the FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a
consensus on Issue No. 00-14, "Accounting for Certain Sales Incentives." This
issue addresses the recognition, measurement and income statement
classification for various types of sales incentives including discounts,
coupons, rebates and free products. The Company will adopt this consensus
effective April 1, 2001 and it is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The
effect of adoption will result in the reclassification of approximately
$150.6, $129.1 and $117.5 for the years ending December 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively, from selling, general and administrative expenses to a
reduction of net sales.

Conversion to the Euro Currency

  On January 1, 1999, certain member countries of the European Union
established fixed conversion rates between their existing currencies and
adopted the euro as their new common legal currency. As of that date, the euro
began trading on currency exchanges and the legacy currencies were to remain
legal tender in the participating countries for a transition period between
January 1, 1999 and January 1, 2002.

  The Company is addressing the issues involved with the introduction of the
euro through its worldwide conversion to the SAP system and other measures.
The more important issues facing the Company include reassessing currency risk
and processing tax and accounting records.

  Based upon progress to date, the Company believes that use of the euro will
not have a significant impact on the manner in which it conducts its business
affairs and processes its business and accounting records. Accordingly,
conversion to the euro is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company's financial position, cash flows or results of operations.



(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


Outlook

  Looking forward into 2001, the Company is well positioned for continued
growth in most of its markets. However, movements in foreign currency exchange
rates can impact future operating results as measured in U.S. dollars. In
particular, economic uncertainty in some countries in Latin America and
changes in the value of the euro may impact the overall results of Latin
America and Europe.

  The Company expects the continued success of Colgate Total toothpaste, using
patented proprietary technology, to bolster worldwide oral care leadership and
expects new products in Oral Care and other categories to add potential for
further growth. Overall, subject to global economic conditions, the Company
does not expect the 2001 market conditions to be materially different from
those experienced in 2000 and the Company expects its positive momentum to
continue. Historically, the consumer products industry has been less
susceptible to changes in economic growth than many other industries, and
therefore the Company constantly evaluates projects that will focus operations
on opportunities for enhanced growth potential. Over the long term, Colgate's
continued focus on its consumer products business and the strength of its
global brand names, its broad international presence in both developed and
developing markets, and its strong capital base all position the Company to
take advantage of growth opportunities and to continue to increase
profitability and shareholder value.

Forward-Looking Statements

  Readers are cautioned that the Results of Operations and other sections of
this report contain forward-looking statements that are based on management's
estimates, assumptions and projections. A description of some of the factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations
expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements set forth in the
Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
November 13, 1998 under the caption "Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking
Statements," together with any future such filings made with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, are incorporated herein by reference. These factors
include, but are not limited to, the risks associated with international
operations, the activities of competitors, retail trade practices, the success
of new product introductions, cost pressures, manufacturing and environmental
matters.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

  See the "Index to Financial Statements" which is located on page 17 of this
report.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

  None.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  Information regarding directors and executive officers of the registrant set
forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting is incorporated
herein by reference, as is the text in Part I of this report under the caption
"Executive Officers of the Registrant".

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

  The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting
is incorporated herein by reference.





ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

  (a) Security ownership of management set forth in the Proxy Statement for the
2001 Annual Meeting is incorporated herein by reference.

  (b) There are no arrangements known to the registrant that may at a
subsequent date result in a change in control of the registrant.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

  The information set forth in the Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting
is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

  See the "Index to Financial Statements" which is located on page 17 of this
report.

  (b) Exhibits. See the exhibit index which is included herein.

  (c) Reports on Form 8-K

  None.



                                  SIGNATURES

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Colgate-Palmolive Company
                                                 (Registrant)

                                          By:     /s/ Reuben Mark
                                              ---------------------------------
                                                       Reuben Mark
                                             Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                                    Executive Officer

Date: March 28, 2001

  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below on March 28, 2001 by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

(a) Principal Executive Officer
                                          (c) Principal Accounting Officer

           /s/ Reuben Mark                        /s/ Dennis J. Hickey
- -------------------------------------     -------------------------------------
             Reuben Mark                            Dennis J. Hickey
        Chairman of the Board                      Vice President and
     and Chief Executive Officer                  Corporate Controller

(b) Principal Financial Officer

                                          (d) Directors:

       /s/ Stephen C. Patrick             Jill K. Conway, Ronald E. Ferguson,
- -------------------------------------     Ellen M. Hancock, David W. Johnson,
         Stephen C. Patrick               John P. Kendall, Richard J. Kogan,
       Chief Financial Officer            Reuben Mark, Howard B. Wentz, Jr.

                                                  /s/ Andrew D. Hendry
                                          -------------------------------------
                                                    Andrew D. Hendry
                                                   as Attorney-in-Fact





                                 United States
                       Securities and Exchange Commission
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                      For The Year Ended December 31, 2000

                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10022



                         Index to Financial Statements



  All other financial statements and schedules not listed have been omitted
since the required information is included in the financial statements or the
notes thereto or is not applicable or required.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                       Consolidated Statements of Income

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)






                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                          Consolidated Balance Sheets

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

 Consolidated Statements of Retained Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Changes
                              in Capital Accounts

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

1. Nature of Operations

  The Company manufactures and markets a wide variety of products in the U.S.
and around the world in two distinct business segments: Oral, Personal and
Household Care, and Pet Nutrition. Oral, Personal and Household Care products
include toothpaste, oral rinses and toothbrushes, bar and liquid soaps,
shampoos, conditioners, deodorants and antiperspirants, shave products,
laundry and dishwashing detergents, fabric softeners, cleansers and cleaners,
bleaches and other similar items. These products are sold primarily to
wholesale and retail distributors worldwide. Pet Nutrition products include
pet food products manufactured and marketed by Hill's Pet Nutrition. The
principal customers for Pet Nutrition products are veterinarians and specialty
pet retailers. Principal global trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, Mennen
Speed Stick, Protex, Ajax, Soupline, Suavitel, Fab, Science Diet and
Prescription Diet in addition to various regional trademarks.

  The Company's principal classes of products accounted for the following
percentages of worldwide sales for the past three years:



2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Colgate-
Palmolive Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated. Investments in companies in
which the Company's interest is between 20% and 50% are accounted for using
the equity method. The Company's share of the net income from such investments
is recorded as equity earnings and is classified as Other expense, net, in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Revenue Recognition

  Sales are recorded at the time products are shipped to trade customers. Net
sales reflect units shipped at selling list prices reduced by promotion
allowances.

Use of Estimates

  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent gains and losses at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Accounting Changes

  In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS 133, as



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

amended, establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that every
derivative instrument be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or
liability measured at its fair value. The statement requires that changes in
the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings or other
comprehensive income depending on whether a derivative is designated as part
of a hedge transaction. The adoption of SFAS 133 on January 1, 2001 did not
result in a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

  In July 2000, the FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a
consensus on Issue No. 00-14, "Accounting for Certain Sales Incentives." This
issue addresses the recognition, measurement and income statement
classification for various types of sales incentives including discounts,
coupons, rebates and free products. The Company will adopt this consensus
effective April 1, 2001. The effect of adoption will result in the
reclassification of approximately $150.6, $129.1 and $117.5 for the years
ending December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, from selling, general
and administrative expenses to a reduction of net sales.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

  The Company considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three
months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. Investments in short-
term securities that do not meet the definition of cash equivalents are
classified as marketable securities. Marketable securities are reported at
cost, which approximates market.

Inventories

  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The first-in, first-
out (FIFO) method is used to value most inventories. The remaining inventories
are valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.

Property, Plant and Equipment

  Land, buildings, and machinery and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is provided, primarily using the straight-line method, over
estimated useful lives ranging from 3 to 40 years.

Goodwill and Other Intangibles

  Intangible assets principally consist of goodwill, which is amortized on the
straight-line method, generally over a period of 40 years. Other intangible
assets, principally non-compete agreements and customer lists, are amortized
on the straight-line method over periods ranging from 5 to 20 years depending
on their useful lives.

  The recoverability of the carrying values of intangible assets is evaluated
periodically based on a review of forecasted operating cash flows and the
profitability of the related business. For the three-year period ended
December 31, 2000, there were no material adjustments to the carrying values
of intangible assets resulting from these evaluations.

Shipping and Handling Costs

  Shipping and handling costs are classified as selling, general and
administrative expenses and were $619.9, $590.0 and $575.9 for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Advertising

  Advertising costs are expensed in the year incurred.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


Income Taxes

  Deferred taxes are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of
temporary differences between the amounts carried for financial reporting and
tax purposes. Provision is made currently for taxes payable on remittances of
overseas earnings; no provision is made for taxes on overseas retained
earnings that are deemed to be permanently reinvested.

Translation of Overseas Currencies

  The assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, other than those operating in
highly inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end
exchange rates, with resulting translation gains and losses accumulated in a
separate component of shareholders' equity. Income and expense items are
converted into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing during the
year.

  For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments, inventories,
goodwill and property, plant and equipment are translated at the rate of
exchange on the date the assets were acquired, while other assets and
liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments
for these operations are included in net income.

  In 1999, due to the devaluation of the Brazilian real, $242.4 was charged to
cumulative translation adjustments which was, in effect, a write-down of
foreign-currency-denominated assets (primarily goodwill and property, plant
and equipment). This will be accompanied by lower amortization and
depreciation expense in future periods.

Financial Instruments

  The net effective cash payment of the interest rate swap contracts combined
with the related interest payments on the debt that they hedge are accounted
for as interest expense. Those interest rate instruments that do not qualify
as hedge instruments for accounting purposes are marked to market and recorded
at fair value.

  Gains and losses from foreign exchange contracts that hedge the Company's
investments in its foreign subsidiaries are shown in the cumulative
translation adjustments account included in shareholders' equity. Gains and
losses from contracts that hedge firm commitments are recorded in the balance
sheets as a component of the related receivable or payable until realized, at
which time they are recognized in the statements of income. The contracts that
hedge anticipated sales and purchases do not qualify as hedges for accounting
purposes. Accordingly, the related gains and losses are calculated using the
current forward rates and are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of
Income as Other expense, net.

Segment Information

  The Company operates in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Household
Care, and Pet Nutrition. The operations of the Oral, Personal and Household
Care segment are managed geographically in four reportable operating segments:
North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia/Africa.

  Management measures segment profit as operating income, which is defined as
income before interest expense and income taxes. The accounting policies of
the operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies. Corporate operations include research and
development costs, unallocated overhead costs, and gains and losses on sales
of non-strategic brands and assets. Corporate assets include primarily benefit
plan assets.




                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

  The financial and descriptive information on the Company's geographic area
and industry segment data, appearing in the tables contained in management's
discussion of this report, is an integral part of these financial statements.

Reclassifications

  Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform with current
year presentation.

3. Acquisitions and Divestitures

  During 2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company made several acquisitions totaling
$64.9, $46.4 and $22.6, respectively. Individually, none of these acquisitions
were significant.

  The acquisitions were accounted for as purchases, and accordingly, the
purchase prices were allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets
acquired based on estimated fair values at the dates the acquisitions were
consummated. The results of operations of the acquired businesses have been
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the respective
acquisition dates. The inclusion of pro forma financial data for all
acquisitions would not have materially affected the financial information
included herein.

  The aggregate sale price of all 2000, 1999 and 1998 divestitures was $102.5,
$94.7 and $57.4, respectively. These divestitures included the Mexico Viva
detergent brand in 2000, the U.S. Baby Magic brand in 1999 and the HandiWipes
brand in 1998.

4. Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities

  Long-term debt consists of the following at December 31:



  Commercial paper and certain other short-term borrowings are classified as
long-term debt as it is the Company's intent and ability to refinance such
obligations on a long-term basis. Scheduled maturities of debt outstanding at
December 31, 2000, excluding short-term borrowings reclassified, are as
follows: 2001--$320.2; 2002--$358.0; 2003--$623.4; 2004--$123.3; 2005--$77.2,
and $918.9 thereafter. The Company has entered into interest rate swap
agreements and foreign exchange contracts related to certain of these debt
instruments (see Note 11).




                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

  At December 31, 2000, the Company had unused credit facilities amounting to
$1,398.1. Commitment fees related to credit facilities are not material. The
weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings, excluding amounts
reclassified, as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, was 7.6% and 7.8%,
respectively.

  The Company's long-term debt agreements include various restrictive
covenants and require the maintenance of certain defined financial ratios with
which the Company is in compliance.

5. Capital Stock and Stock Compensation Plans

Preferred Stock

  Preferred Stock consists of 250,000 authorized shares without par value. It
is issuable in series, of which one series of 125,000 shares, designated $4.25
Preferred Stock, with a stated and redeemable value of $100 per share, has
been issued. The $4.25 Preferred Stock is redeemable only at the option of the
Company. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, 103,350 and 115,510 shares of $4.25
Preferred Stock, respectively, were outstanding.

Preference Stock

  In 1988, the Company authorized the issuance of 50,000,000 shares of
Preference Stock, without par value. The Series B Convertible Preference
Stock, which is convertible into eight shares of common stock, ranks junior to
all series of the Preferred Stock. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, 5,254,847
and 5,446,442 shares of Series B Convertible Preference Stock, respectively,
were outstanding and issued to the Company's Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

Shareholder Rights Plan

  Under the Company's Shareholder Rights Plan, each share of the Company's
common stock carries with it one Preference Share Purchase Right ("Rights").
The Rights themselves will at no time have voting power or pay dividends. The
Rights become exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of
the Company's common stock or announces a tender offer, the consummation of
which would result in ownership by a person or group of 15% or more of the
common stock. When exercisable, each Right entitles a holder to buy one two-
hundredth of a share of a new series of preference stock at an exercise price
of $220.00, subject to adjustment.

  If the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination, each
Right will entitle a holder to buy, at the Right's then current exercise
price, a number of the acquiring company's common shares having a market value
of twice such price. In addition, if a person or group acquires 15% or more of
the Company's common stock, each Right will entitle its holder (other than
such person or members of such group) to purchase, at the Right's then current
exercise price, a number of shares of the Company's common stock having a
market value of twice the Right's exercise price.

  Further, at any time after a person or group acquires 15% or more (but less
than 50%) of the Company's common stock, the Board of Directors may, at its
option, exchange part or all of the Rights (other than Rights held by the
acquiring person or group) for shares of the Company's common stock on a one-
for-one basis.

  The Company, at the option of its Board of Directors, may amend the Rights
or redeem the Rights for $.01 at any time before the acquisition by a person
or group of beneficial ownership of 15% or more of its common stock. The Board
of Directors is also authorized to reduce the 15% threshold to not less than
10%. Unless redeemed earlier, the Rights will expire on October 31, 2008.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


Stock Repurchases

  During 1998, the Company entered into a series of forward purchase
agreements on its common stock. These agreements are settled on a net basis in
shares of the Company's common stock. To the extent that the market price of
the Company's common stock on a settlement date is higher/(lower) than the
forward purchase price, the net differential is received/(paid) by the
Company. As of December 31, 2000, agreements were in place covering
approximately $509.8 of the Company's common stock (7.9 million shares) that
had forward prices averaging $64.55 per share. During 2000 and 1999,
settlements resulted in the Company delivering 217,574 shares and receiving
2,322,701 shares, respectively, which were recorded as treasury stock
transactions.

Incentive Stock Plan

  The Company has a plan that provides for grants of restricted stock awards
for officers and other executives of the Company and its major subsidiaries. A
committee of non-employee members of the Board of Directors administers the
plan. During 2000 and 1999, 667,090 and 692,238 shares, respectively, were
awarded to employees in accordance with the provisions of the plan.

Stock Option Plans

  The Company's Stock Option Plans ("Plans") provide for the issuance of non-
qualified stock options to officers and key employees. Options are granted at
prices not less than the fair market value on the date of grant and vest over
three years. At 2000 year-end, 25,691,772 shares of common stock were
available for future grants.

  The Plans contain a feature that provides for the grant of new options when
previously owned shares of Company stock are used to exercise existing
options. The number of new options granted under this feature is equal to the
number of shares of previously owned Company stock used to exercise the
original options and to pay the related required U.S. income tax. The new
options are granted at a price equal to the fair market value on the date of
the new grant and have the same expiration date as the original options
exercised.

  Stock option plan activity is summarized below:





                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  The following table summarizes information relating to currently outstanding
and exercisable options as of December 31, 2000:



  The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations in accounting for
options granted under the Plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been
recognized. Had compensation expense been determined based on the
Black-Scholes option pricing model value at the grant date for awards in 2000,
1999 and 1998 consistent with the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS
123), the Company's net income, basic earnings per common share and diluted
earnings per common share would have been $1,006.1, $1.71 per share and $1.60
per share, respectively, in 2000; $891.9, $1.49 per share and $1.40 per share,
respectively, in 1999; and $803.5, $1.33 per share and $1.25 per share,
respectively, in 1998.

  The weighted average Black-Scholes value of grants issued in 2000, 1999 and
1998 was $10.95, $8.61 and $6.24, respectively. The Black-Scholes value of
each option granted is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model
with the following assumptions: option term until exercise ranging from 2 to 7
years, volatility ranging from 22% to 41%, risk-free interest rate ranging
from 5.0% to 6.2% and an expected dividend yield of 2.5%. The Black-Scholes
model used to determine the option values shown above was developed to
estimate the fair value of short-term freely tradable, fully transferable
options without vesting restrictions and was not designed to value reloads,
all of which significantly differ from the Company's stock option awards. The
value of this model is also limited by the inclusion of highly subjective
assumptions which greatly affect calculated values.

6. Employee Stock Ownership Plan

  In 1989, the Company expanded its Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP")
through the introduction of a leveraged ESOP covering certain employees who
have met certain eligibility requirements. The ESOP issued $410.0 of long-term
notes due through 2009 bearing an average interest rate of 8.7%. The long-term
notes, which are guaranteed by the Company, are reflected in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The ESOP used the proceeds of the notes to
purchase 6.3 million shares of Series B Convertible Preference Stock from the
Company. The Stock has a minimum redemption price of $65 per share and pays
semiannual dividends equal to the higher of $2.44 or the current dividend paid
on eight common shares for the comparable six-month period. During 2000, the
ESOP entered into a loan agreement with the Company under which the benefits
of the ESOP may be extended through 2035.

  Dividends on these preferred shares, as well as common shares also held by
the ESOP, are paid to the ESOP trust and, together with contributions, are
used by the ESOP to repay principal and interest on the outstanding



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

notes. Preferred shares are released for allocation to participants based upon
the ratio of the current year's debt service to the sum of total principal and
interest payments over the life of the loan. At December 31, 2000, 1,654,219
shares were allocated to participant accounts and 3,600,628 shares were
available for future allocation. Each allocated share may be converted by the
trustee into eight common shares but preferred shares generally convert only
after the employee ceases to work for the Company.

  Dividends on these preferred shares are deductible for income tax purposes
and, accordingly, are reflected net of their tax benefit in the Consolidated
Statements of Retained Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Changes in Capital
Accounts.

  Annual expense related to the leveraged ESOP, determined as interest
incurred on the notes, less employee contributions and dividends received on
the shares held by the ESOP, plus the higher of either principal repayments on
the notes or the cost of shares allocated, was $3.4 in 2000, $9.2 in 1999 and
$2.4 in 1998. Similarly, unearned compensation, shown as a reduction in
shareholders' equity, is reduced by the higher of principal payments or the
cost of shares allocated.

  Interest incurred on the ESOP's notes was $31.4 in 2000, $32.0 in 1999 and
$32.5 in 1998. The Company paid dividends on the stock held by the ESOP of
$28.6 in 2000, $29.1 in 1999 and $29.3 in 1998. Company contributions to the
ESOP were $4.8 in 2000, $9.3 in 1999 and $0 in 1998. Employee contributions to
the ESOP were $0 in 2000, $.6 in 1999 and $9.4 in 1998.

7. Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits

Retirement Plans

  The Company, its U.S. subsidiaries and some of its overseas subsidiaries
maintain defined benefit retirement plans covering substantially all of their
employees. Benefits are based primarily on years of service and employees'
career earnings. In the Company's principal U.S. plans, funds are contributed
to the trusts in accordance with regulatory limits to provide for current
service and for any unfunded projected benefit obligation over a reasonable
period. Assets of the plans consist principally of common stocks, guaranteed
investment contracts with insurance companies, investments in real estate
funds and U.S. Government and corporate obligations. Domestic plan assets also
include investments in the Company's common stock representing 11% and 10% of
plan assets at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Other Retiree Benefits

  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries provide health care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees to the extent not provided by
government-sponsored plans. The Company utilizes a portion of its leveraged
ESOP, in the form of future retiree contributions, to reduce its obligation to
provide these postretirement benefits and offset its current service cost.
Postretirement benefits otherwise are not currently funded.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

  Summarized information of the Company's defined benefit retirement plans and
postretirement plans are as follows:





                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)



  The accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets
were $202.0 and $5.4, respectively, as of December 31, 2000, and $203.7 and
$9.7, respectively, as of December 31, 1999. These amounts represent non-
qualified domestic plans and plans at foreign locations that are primarily
unfunded, as such book reserves equal to the unfunded amount have been
recorded.

  The projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the
pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were
$291.7 and $50.4, respectively, as of December 31, 2000, and $271.6 and $42.9,
respectively, as of December 31, 1999.

  The assumed medical cost trend rate used in measuring the postretirement
benefit obligation was 7.0% for 2001, 6.0% for 2002 and 5.0% for years
thereafter. Changes in this rate can have a significant effect on amounts
reported. The effect of a 1% increase/decrease in the assumed medical cost
trend rate would change the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by
approximately $15.5; annual expense would change by approximately $1.8.

8. Income Taxes

  The provision for income taxes consists of the following for the three years
ended December 31:





                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


   The difference between the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate and the
Company's global effective tax rate as reflected in the Consolidated
Statements of Income is as follows:



   The components of deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows at
December 31:





                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


   The major component of the 2000 and 1999 valuation allowance relates to tax
benefits in certain jurisdictions not expected to be realized. The net change
in the valuation allowance for deferred taxes resulted from tax credits
utilized.

   Applicable U.S. income and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided
on approximately $752.0 of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries at
December 31, 2000. These earnings are currently considered to be permanently
invested and are not subject to such taxes. Determining the tax liability that
would arise if these earnings were remitted is not practicable.

9. Supplemental Income Statement Information



10. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information



   Inventories valued under LIFO amounted to $133.0 and $137.3 at December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively. The excess of current cost over LIFO cost at the
end of each year was $34.4 and $37.2, respectively. The liquidations of LIFO
inventory quantities had no effect on income in 2000 and 1999, and increased
income by $1.3 in 1998.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)




11. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

   The Company utilizes interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency
exchange contracts to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures.
(See Management's Discussion and Analysis--Managing Foreign Currency and
Interest Rate Exposure for further discussion.) In assessing the fair value of
financial instruments at December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company has used
available market information and other valuation methodologies. Some judgment
is necessarily required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates
of fair value, and, accordingly, the estimates are not necessarily indicative
of the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


   The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities,
long-term investments and short-term debt approximated fair value as of
December 31, 2000 and 1999. The estimated fair value of the Company's
remaining financial instruments at December 31 are summarized as follows:



   As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company had interest rate agreements
outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $824.6 and $965.9,
respectively, with maturities through 2018.

   As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company had approximately $728.6 and
$431.6, respectively, of outstanding foreign exchange contracts. At December
31, 2000, approximately 3% of outstanding foreign exchange contracts served to
hedge net investments in foreign subsidiaries, 35% hedged intercompany loans,
35% hedged third-party debt and other firm commitments, and 27% represented
contracts used to redenominate foreign-currency debt into U.S. dollars.

   The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
counterparties on interest rate agreements and foreign exchange contracts;
however, nonperformance by these counterparties is considered remote as it is
the Company's policy to contract with diversified counterparties that have a
long-term debt rating of A or higher.

12. Restructured Operations

   In September 1995, a reserve of $460.5 was established to cover a worldwide
restructuring of manufacturing and administrative operations. The cost of
completing the restructuring activities approximated the original estimate.
The planned restructuring projects, primarily in North America and Europe but
also affecting Hill's Pet Nutrition and Colgate locations in Asia/Africa and
certain Latin America locations, were completed as of December 31, 2000. As
planned, the restructuring has produced savings that increase pretax earnings
by over $150.0 annually.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


   A summary of the changes in the restructuring reserve is as follows:



   The headcount reductions resulting from the restructuring projects totaled
4,869. Factory closures and/or reconfigurations totaled 25. The headcount and
factory totals were increased by 727 and 1, respectively, as a result of
refinements of original estimates.

   In December 2000 the Company recorded a charge of $63.9 ($42.5 aftertax)
associated with the realignment of three manufacturing locations in Latin
America and the exiting of our business in Nigeria. The charge, recorded in
Other expense, net, included $14.2 for termination costs and $49.7 for exiting
of manufacturing operations. At December 31, 2000, the remaining reserve of
$7.2 is classified as a current liability representing termination costs for
979 employees to be paid during 2001.

13. Earnings Per Share



14. Commitments and Contingencies

  Minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases, primarily
for office and warehouse facilities, are $70.3 in 2001, $63.9 in 2002, $55.1
in 2003, $47.2 in 2004, $44.6 in 2005 and $57.1 thereafter. Rental expense
amounted to $90.6 in 2000, $102.4 in 1999 and $102.7 in 1998. Contingent
rentals, sublease income and capital leases, which are included in fixed
assets, are not significant.

  The Company has various contractual commitments to purchase raw materials,
products and services totaling $137.9 that expire through 2003.

  The Company is a party to various superfund and other environmental matters
and is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, taxes and other matters
arising out of the normal course of business. Management proactively reviews
and manages its exposure to, and the impact of, environmental matters and
other contingencies.



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements--(continued)

                (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


  In 1995, the Company acquired the Kolynos oral care business from American
Home Products, as described in the Company's Form 8-K dated January 10, 1995.
On September 8, 1998, the Company's Brazilian subsidiary received notice of an
administrative proceeding from the Central Bank of Brazil primarily taking
issue with certain filings made with the Central Bank in connection with the
financing of this strategic transaction, but in no way challenging or seeking
to unwind the acquisition. The Central Bank of Brazil in January 2001 notified
the Company of its decision and imposed a fine which has subsequently been
appealed. During the appeal, the imposition of the fine is suspended. Further
appeals are available within the Brazilian federal courts. Management
believes, based on the opinion of its Brazilian legal counsel and other
experts, that the filings challenged by the Central Bank fully complied with
Brazilian law. The Company intends to challenge this fine vigorously and
believes that ultimately it will prevail on appeal.

  While it is possible that the Company's cash flows and results of operations
in particular quarterly or annual periods could be affected by the one-time
impacts of the resolution of the above contingencies, it is the opinion of
management that the ultimate disposition of these matters, to the extent not
previously provided for, will not have a material impact on the Company's
financial condition or ongoing cash flows and results of operations.

15. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)





                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                        Market and Dividend Information



  The Company's common stock and $4.25 Preferred Stock are listed on the New
York Stock Exchange. The trading symbol for the common stock is CL. Dividends
on the common stock have been paid every year since 1895 and the amount of
dividends paid per share has increased for 38 consecutive years.





                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                      For the Year Ended December 31, 2000

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


- --------
NOTES:

(/1/) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
(/2/) Decrease in allowance due to utilization of tax credits and net operating
      loss carryforwards.



                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


- --------
NOTES:

(/1/) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
(/2/) Primarily due to the impact of exchange rate changes in Brazil.
(/3/) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
      benefits that are likely not to be utilized in the future.



                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1998

                 (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)


- --------
NOTES:

(/1/) Uncollectible accounts written off and cash discounts allowed.
(/2/) Increase/decrease in allowance for tax loss and tax credit carryforward
      benefits that are likely not to be utilized in the future.



                   Report of Independent Public Accountants

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
 Colgate-Palmolive Company:

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Colgate-
Palmolive Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2000 and 1999, and the related consolidated statements of income, retained
earnings, comprehensive income and changes in capital accounts, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000. These
financial statements and the schedules referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Colgate-Palmolive Company
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

   Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedules listed in the index to
financial statements are presented for purposes of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not part of the basic
financial statements. These schedules have been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly state in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.

                                          /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

New York, New York
January 30, 2001



COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

Historical Financial Summary(/1/)

Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts

- -------
(/1/) All share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect the 1999,
      1997 and the 1991 two-for-one stock splits.
(/2/) Income in 1995 includes a net provision for restructured operations of
      $369.2. (Excluding this charge, earnings per share would have been $.89,
      basic and $.84, diluted.)
(/3/) Income in 1994 includes a one-time charge of $5.2 for the sale of a non-
      core business, Princess House.
(/4/) Income in 1993 includes a one-time impact of adopting new mandated
      accounting standards, effective in the first quarter of 1993, of $358.2.
      (Excluding this charge, earnings per share would have been $.84, basic
      and $.79, diluted.)
(/5/) Income in 1991 includes a net provision for restructured operations of
      $243.0. (Excluding this charge, earnings per share would have been $.64,
      basic and $.60, diluted.)



                           COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY

                             EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K

                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                           Commission File No. 1-644








- --------
* Registrant hereby undertakes upon request to furnish the Commission with a
  copy of any instrument with respect to long-term debt where the total amount
  of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets
  of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

   The exhibits indicated above that are not included with the Form 10-K are
available upon request and payment of a reasonable fee approximating the
registrant's cost of providing and mailing the exhibits. Inquiries should be
directed to:

                                          Colgate-Palmolive Company
                                          Office of the Secretary (10-K
                                          Exhibits)
                                          300 Park Avenue
                                          New York, New York 10022-7499


