
10-K405
THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY    10-K 405




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                          ----------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4851

                          ----------------------------

                          THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                                      OHIO
         (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
                                   34-0526850
                      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                   101 PROSPECT AVENUE, N.W., CLEVELAND, OHIO
                    (Address of principal executive offices)
                                   44115-1075
                                   (Zip Code)

                                 (216) 566-2000
               Registrant's telephone number, including area code
             ------------------------------------------------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None

    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes X   No __

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

    At January 31, 2000, 165,719,211 shares of common stock were outstanding,
net of treasury shares. The aggregate market value of such voting stock held by
non-affiliates on January 31, 2000 was $2,902,095,029.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1999 ("1999 Annual Report") are incorporated by reference into
Parts I, II and IV of this report.

    Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
("Proxy Statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

     The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866 and incorporated in 1884, is
engaged in the manufacture, distribution and sale of coatings and related
products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers primarily
in North and South America. As used in this report, the terms "Sherwin-Williams"
and "Company" mean The Sherwin-Williams Company and its consolidated
subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.

BASIS OF REPORTABLE SEGMENTS

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, following the appointment of a new chief
operating decision maker, the Company adopted revised segment reporting
guidelines that changed the number and composition of its reportable segments
and changed the value of goods that are transferred domestically between
segments. Effective for the fourth quarter and year 1999, the Company will
report financial information for five reportable segments -- the Paint Stores,
Consumer, Automotive Finishes, International Coatings (collectively, the
"Operating Segments") and Administrative Segments. The value assigned to goods
that are transferred domestically between segments represents the approximate
fully absorbed manufactured cost plus distribution costs. Previously reported
annual Reportable Segment Information for years 1995 through 1998 was restated
to conform to the Company's 1999 presentation which is shown on page 13 of the
1999 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Unaudited
quarterly Reportable Segment Information for 1999 and 1998, which was reported
in the Company's 1999 quarterly reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on Form 10-Q, has also been restated as described in Note 14 on pages
36 and 37 of the 1999 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, "Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," requires an enterprise
to report segment information in the same way that management internally
organizes its business for assessing performance and making decisions regarding
allocation of resources. One of the characteristics identified by SFAS No. 131
that must be considered in the determination of reportable segments is the
regular review of performance by the enterprise's chief operating decision
maker. The Company's chief operating decision maker has been identified as the
Chief Executive Officer because he has final authority over performance
assessment and resource allocation decisions. Each reportable segment identified
by the Company meets the SFAS No. 131 criteria for external reporting in the
same way that current management internally has organized the Company. The new
segment reporting meets other SFAS No. 131 characteristics of earning revenue
and incurring expenses in carrying out a business activity and making discrete
financial information about the business component available to the chief
operating decision maker.

     Because of the global, diverse operations of the Company, the chief
operating decision maker regularly receives discrete financial information about
each operating segment as well as a significant amount of additional financial
information about certain aggregated divisions, operating units and subsidiaries
of the Company. The chief operating decision maker uses all such financial
information for performance assessment and resource allocation decisions.

     Factors considered in determining the five reportable segments of the
Company include the nature of the business activities, existence of managers
responsible for the operating and administrative activities and information
presented to the Board of Directors. Information about net sales, operating
profits and assets attributable to the United States and to all foreign
consolidated subsidiaries can be found on pages 12 and 13 of the 1999 Annual
Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Revenues and operating
profits attributable to any individual country outside the United States are not
material.

     The Company evaluates the performance of each operating segment and
allocates resources based on profit or loss and cash generated from operations
before income taxes, excluding corporate expenses and financing gains and
losses. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those
described in Note 1 --



Significant Accounting Policies on pages 28 and 29 of the 1999 Annual Report,
which is incorporated herein by reference.

PAINT STORES SEGMENT

     The Paint Stores Segment consists of four geographically divided domestic
domiciled divisions -- Eastern, Southeastern, Mid Western and South
Western -- which include all paint stores in the United States, Canada, the
Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. The domestic divisions have the same business
activity of selling identical national and similar regional products through
company-operated specialty paint stores to the same types of customers. The
Paint Stores Segment now includes the manufacturing and technical operations of
the Product Finishes Business Unit that produces original equipment manufacturer
(OEM) product finishes sold through the paint stores and by direct outside sales
representatives. These operations were previously reported in the Coatings
Segment. The Paint Stores Segment also consists of certain operations in Mexico
that include a manufacturing facility, distribution activities, specialty paint
stores and outside selling functions to dealers and other distributors. The
Mexico operations were also previously reported as part of the Coatings Segment.
The Paint Stores Segment consisted of 2,396 company-operated paint stores in the
United States, Canada, the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and Mexico on December
31, 1999. The Paint Stores Segment is the exclusive North American marketer and
seller of Sherwin-Williams(R) branded architectural coatings, industrial
maintenance and marine products, and related items produced by the Consumer
Segment and the Paint Stores Segment's Mexican manufacturing operations. This
Segment is also the exclusive North American marketer and seller of
Sherwin-Williams(R) branded industrial OEM product finishes produced by its
manufacturing facilities. In addition, this Segment markets and sells
Con-Lux(R), Old Quaker(TM), Mercury(TM), Brod Dugan(TM), Pro-Line(R),
SeaGuard(R), JetGlo(R), AcryGlo(R), other control-branded coatings, and related
products also manufactured by the Consumer Segment. Complementary coatings and
associated products manufactured by third parties are sold through the Paint
Stores Segment to complete its product offering.

     Paint, applicators, wallcoverings, floorcoverings, spray equipment and
associated products are marketed and sold by store personnel and direct sales
representatives to the do-it-yourself customer, professional painting
contractor, home builder, property manager, industrial maintenance and marine
customer, aviation market, OEM customer, and product finishing job shop
customer. The loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse
effect on the business of this Segment.

     During 1999, the Segment opened 73 net new stores, remodeled 81 and
relocated 41. Included in the 73 net new stores were 66 stores in the United
States, one each in Canada, the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico, and four in
Mexico. There were 64 net new stores opened in 1998 (55 in the United States)
and 47 net new stores in 1997 (36 in the United States). This Segment introduced
many new national and regional architectural products, industrial maintenance
and marine products, and industrial OEM product finishes in 1999. The exterior
paint "Duration(TM)" was launched in March 1999 and exceeded its first year
sales forecasts. This product was well accepted by the painting contractor
looking for long-lasting durability, ease of application and excellent
appearance. It was also well accepted by the do-it-yourself customer looking for
superior performance and a one-coat application. Growth in the faux finishing
area, which is used to achieve unique finishes for home remodeling projects and
new home construction, has continued. In addition to introducing new products in
this area, this Segment added several well-received customer services such as an
in-store merchandiser, application tools, in-store clinics and "how to"
brochures and videos.

     In 2000, the Paint Stores Segment plans to open approximately 80 net new
stores while investing in new sales territories and field technical personnel.
Service levels will continue to improve through added investments in staffing,
color matching equipment and other productivity improving equipment. This
Segment will also invest in a key project designed to dramatically enhance color
offering and product consistency. This multi-year project will launch in 2000
with the introduction of an "Extra White" base, a brighter and cleaner white
base, which will allow Sherwin-Williams(R) products to be tinted to a wider
range of colors than ever before. Projects to enhance existing product lines
while introducing new technology will continue, as product quality remains a key
issue to both new and existing customers.



     The Company launched its extremely successful web site,
"www.sherwin-williams.com" in January 1999. It has received favorable reviews
from a number of internet trade publications and won the Dow Jones Directory's
site of the month award in August 1999. Customer and employee feedback included
high marks for ease of navigation, logical organization structure, and breadth
and depth of content. By the end of 1999, the site consisted of more than 12,000
pages of information and received 5.5 million hits per month with 165,000 user
sessions. This site will be expanded to further leverage the existing store
distribution platform by enabling customers and vendors to conduct business
electronically.

     The successful advertising campaign theme, "Ask How, Ask Now, Ask
Sherwin-Williams" will continue in 2000. The campaign capitalizes on the strong
brand name recognition and quality perception inherent in the Sherwin-Williams
name.

CONSUMER SEGMENT

     The Consumer Segment develops, manufactures and distributes architectural
paints, stains, varnishes, industrial maintenance products, wood finishing
products, paint applicators, corrosion inhibitors, and paint-related products in
the United States and Canada. In addition, a wide variety of cleaning products
and custom, industrial and automotive aerosols are filled, packaged, distributed
and sold by this Segment. The Consumer Segment employs a wide variety of trade
names and trademarks in pursuit of its business. Sherwin-Williams(R), Dutch
Boy(R), Krylon(R), Minwax(R), Cuprinol(R), Thompson's(R), Formby's(R), Red
Devil(R), Kem-Tone(R), Martin Senour(R), Pratt & Lambert(R), H&C(R), White
Lightning(R), Dupli-Color(R), Rust Tough(R), Rubberset(R), Sprayon(R),
Moly-White(R), Cello(R) and Tri-Flow(TM) are some of the trade names and
trademarks that have high national customer recognition and collectively
contribute significantly to the external sales of the Consumer Segment.

     Domestically, Sherwin-Williams(R) branded architectural coatings, stains,
varnishes, industrial maintenance products, wood finishing products, paint
applicators, aerosols, adhesives and related products are manufactured solely
for the Paint Stores Segment. Approximately 40 percent of the total sales,
including intersegment transfers, of the Consumer Segment in 1999 represented
products sold through the Paint Stores Segment.

     Certain control-branded, other branded and private label coatings, stains,
varnishes, wood finishing products, paint applicators, aerosols and related
products are manufactured for and distributed through many of the leading mass
merchandisers, home centers, independent dealers and industrial maintenance
distributors. Sales and marketing of these branded and private label products is
performed by a direct sales staff. The products distributed through these
third-party customers are intended for resale to the ultimate end-user of the
product. Cleaning products and custom, industrial and automotive aerosols
produced by this Segment are distributed through various mass merchandisers and
the homecare products, institutional, insecticide and industrial markets.

     The Consumer Segment has sales to certain customers that, individually, may
be a significant portion of the sales of the Segment. However, the loss of any
single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the overall
profitability of the Segment. This Segment incurs most of the Company's capital
expenditures related to ongoing environmental compliance measures.

     During 1999, the Consumer Segment's sales and marketing organizations began
to benefit from the consolidation of the former Consumer Brands, Coatings,
Transportation Services and Diversified Brands Divisions that started in 1998.
The consolidation was precipitated by customer expectations for improved
service, the necessity to lower operating costs, and the need for additional
field service personnel to support the customers' businesses. In 1999, a new
sales and marketing organization was put in place to provide proper focus to the
key brands as well as this Segment's large, diverse customer base. Technology
changes throughout the Consumer Segment allowed for the complete integration of
marketing and sales information into a data warehouse for acquired brands as
well as core business brands. This Segment also installed supply chain software
into many of its manufacturing and distribution sites to speed up the supply
chain process and increase responsiveness to customer demand.

     In 1999, the Consumer Segment's Chicago Emulsion Plant was accepted into
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's Voluntary Protection Program
as a "Star" site. This program recognizes U.S. facilities that have designed and
implemented outstanding health and safety practices. This acceptance marks the
first time



that a U.S. coatings manufacturer has achieved this status. The Consumer Segment
continued its promotion of the unique Dutch Boy(R) ClimateGUARD(TM) exterior
house paint product line. Climatological research identifies five U.S. regions
with distinctively different climates. Five unique ClimateGUARD(TM) formulas
were developed for each different weather condition it guards against and are
all backed by the Company's 20-year limited warranty.

     In 2000, several new marketing and sales programs will be initiated. The
Segment has launched a new Thompson's(R) exterior architectural paint program.
This program is a premium branded program that leverages the well-known
Thompson's(R) brand name at a leading mass merchandiser. The product is being
supported with a lifetime warranty for moisture resistance. This program
provides a branded paint program along side the customer's private label paint
program. Additionally, the Consumer Segment will introduce an extension pole
program for the professional contractor. This program will involve separate
sizes of extension poles for paint rollers with a lifetime warranty on the
patent-pending pin lock mechanism on the extension poles.

AUTOMOTIVE FINISHES SEGMENT

     The Automotive Finishes Segment develops, manufactures and distributes
motor vehicle finish, refinish and touch-up products primarily throughout North
and South America and the Caribbean Islands. This Segment also licenses certain
technology and trade names worldwide. This Segment employs a variety of trade
names and trademarks worldwide in pursuit of its business. Sherwin-Williams(R),
Martin Senour(R), Western(R), Lazzuril(TM), Excelo(TM) and Marson(TM) are some
of the trade names and trademarks that have high national and international
customer recognition and collectively contribute significantly to the sales of
the Automotive Finishes Segment. Sherwin-Williams(R) branded automotive finish
and refinish products are distributed throughout North America solely through
this Segment's network of company-operated automotive branches. At December 31,
1999, the Segment consisted of a network of 172 company-operated automotive
branches worldwide. In the United States there were 121 branches open at that
date and 51 foreign branches in Canada (21), Jamaica (12) and Chile (18). Some
control-branded, other branded and private label refinish and touch-up products
are manufactured for and distributed through many of the leading independent
dealers, automotive program distributors, automotive jobbers, independent
jobbers, wholesale distributors, automotive body shops, automotive dealerships,
fleet owners and refinishers, production shops, body builders and manufacturers
requiring a factory-applied finished product. At December 31, 1999, the
Automotive Finishes Segment included nine foreign wholly-owned subsidiaries in
five foreign countries and 12 foreign licensing agreements in 29 countries
outside the United States.

     During 1999, the Automotive Finishes Segment opened five new branches - one
in the United States and two each in Chile and Jamaica. This Segment also
acquired thirteen branches in 1999 - ten in Canada, two in Chile and one in the
United States. The branch network continued to increase sales and gain market
share in the collision shop sector. Unique sales programs, national account
management and the high performing Ultra 7000(TM) system were key factors
contributing to sales increases in the branch network. Sales and profits
increased significantly in product lines sold to suppliers to the automotive and
truck OEM businesses. Genesis(TM) high solids urethane systems for OEM heavy
truck and bus application was launched during 1999, adding to the growth in that
business. Increased unit builds and new product approvals by automobile parts
suppliers and truck manufacturers were key to the growth in the OEM business.

     In 2000, the Automotive Finishes Segment will continue to focus on sales
growth in the OEM business and expansion of its branch network. The development
of additional, improved color technology in international markets will aid in
sales growth as well. This Segment will continue to pursue growing market
opportunities including international business to better compete on a global
basis.

INTERNATIONAL COATINGS SEGMENT

     The International Coatings Segment develops, licenses, manufactures and
distributes architectural paints, stains, varnishes, industrial maintenance
products, product finishes, wood finishing products and paint-related products
worldwide. In addition, custom, industrial and automotive aerosols are filled,
packaged, distributed and sold by this Segment. The International Coatings
Segment employs a wide variety of trade names and trademarks worldwide in
pursuit of its business. Sherwin-Williams(R), Dutch Boy(R), Krylon(R),
Kem-Tone(R), Pratt & Lambert(R), Minwax(R), Ronseal(TM), Colorgin(TM),
Globo(TM), Sumare(R), Andina(TM) and Marson(TM) are some of the trade names and



trademarks that have high customer recognition and collectively contribute
significantly to the sales of the International Coatings Segment. Some other
branded and private label coatings, stains, varnishes, wood finishing products,
paint applicators, aerosols, adhesives and related products are manufactured for
and distributed through various marketing channels. The International Coatings
Segment manufactures, distributes and sells its products primarily through
wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures and licensees of technology,
trademarks and trade names. At December 31, 1999, this Segment included ten
foreign wholly-owned subsidiaries in seven foreign countries, four foreign joint
ventures and 32 licensing agreements in 24 foreign countries. This Segment also
sells its products through 33 company-operated specialty paint stores in Chile
and ten in Brazil. The majority of the sales from licensees and subsidiaries
occur in South America, the Segment's most important international market.

     The economic climate throughout South America was difficult in 1999.
Despite Brazil's maxi-devaluation of its currency in January, and the resultant
impact on the economy, improved sales and operating profits were achieved in
local currency. In spite of the harsh economic climate and recessions in
Argentina and Chile, the operations in these countries managed to increase
market share. S-W Argentina achieved record sales and profits. In the United
Kingdom, Ronseal achieved record sales and profits with continued growth in its
do-it-yourself and home improvement market.

     In 2000, the less-than-favorable economic conditions in South America are
expected to continue although some improvement may be realized in Brazil and
Chile. Nonetheless, cost containment remains a focal point of the businesses in
South America, especially in Argentina where a continuation of the recession is
possible. Additionally, proper servicing of key accounts, new product
introductions, entry into new market segments and a broadening of distribution
will be necessary to achieve planned goals.

ADMINISTRATIVE SEGMENT

     The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have corporate
headquarters expenses that are considered part of the Administrative Segment and
not a part of an Operating Segment. The Administrative Segment includes the
expenses of headquarter sites, interest expense which is unrelated to certain
financing activities of the Operating Segments, investment income, certain
foreign currency transaction losses related to dollar-denominated debt and other
financing activities, certain provisions for disposition and
environmental-related matters, and other expenses which are not directly
associated with any Operating Segment.

     The Administrative Segment expenses and assets reconcile Operating Segment
data to total consolidated income before income taxes, identifiable assets,
capital expenditures and depreciation.

     Also included in the Administrative Segment is a real estate management
unit that is responsible for the ownership, management, leasing of non-retail
properties held primarily for use by the Company, including the Company's
headquarters site, and disposal of idle facilities. Sales of the Administrative
Segment represent external leasing revenue of excess headquarters space or
leasing of facilities no longer used by the Company in its operations. Gains and
losses from the sale of property are not a significant factor in determining the
performance of this Segment. At the end of 1999, this Segment owned 22 and
leased two properties consisting of office buildings, distribution service
centers, idle manufacturing facilities and vacant land. Occasionally, such
properties are acquired or developed to provide the lowest cost alternative for
expansion of distribution operations by the Consumer or Automotive Finishes
Segments. Locations that have been utilized profitably in the past that can no
longer contribute to the Company's future plans are offered for sale or lease.
If a location is no longer in usable condition, all buildings on the property
are razed and the vacant land is then offered for sale or lease. During 1999,
two owned properties were sold and early termination of a lease was successfully
negotiated at a third site. Sales agreements are currently being pursued for
three other facilities with anticipated sale dates in 2000. The second phase of
a demolition plan was completed at a former manufacturing facility in 1999. The
occupancy rate for external non-retail office space was 95 percent at December
31, 1999. For 2000, the lease expiration of a large tenant in the Company's
headquarters building and the reduction in leased space of another tenant will
result in decreased revenue for the near term.



RAW MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS PURCHASED FOR RESALE

     Raw materials and fuel supplies are generally available from various
sources in sufficient quantities that none of the Segments anticipates any
significant sourcing problems during 2000. There are sufficient suppliers of
each product purchased for resale that none of the Segments anticipates any
significant sourcing problems during 2000.

SEASONALITY

     The majority of the sales for the Paint Stores, Consumer and Automotive
Finishes Segments traditionally occur during the second and third quarters. The
International Coatings Segment's fourth quarter sales have traditionally been
greater than the sales for any of the first three quarters. There is no
significant seasonality in sales for the Administrative Segment.

TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES

     Customer recognition of Company trademarks and trade names collectively
contribute significantly to the sales of the Company.

     The Paint Stores Segment is identified with names such as
Sherwin-Williams(R), SuperPaint(R), Pro Mar(R), EverClean(R), Glas-Clad(R),
Perma-Clad(R), Old Quaker(TM), Pro-Line(R), SeaGuard(R), JetGlo(R), AcryGlo(R),
Con-Lux(R), Mercury(TM) and Brod-Dugan(TM).

     The Consumer Segment employs a variety of trade names and trademarks in
marketing its products, such as Sherwin-Williams(R), Thompson's(R), Dutch
Boy(R), Kem-Tone(R), Martin Senour(R), Cuprinol(R), Pratt & Lambert(R), H&C(R),
Rubberset(R), Dupli-Color(R), Rust Tough(R), Sprayon(R), Minwax(R), White
Lightning(R), Krylon(R), Cello(R), Moly-White(R), Formby's(R), Red Devil(R) and
Tri-Flow(TM).

     The Automotive Finishes Segment utilizes various trade names and trademarks
in pursuit of its business, including Sherwin-Williams(R), Martin Senour(R),
Western(R), Lazzuril(TM), Excelo(TM) and Marson(TM).

     The International Coatings Segment uses trade names and trademarks in the
conduct of its business including Sherwin-Williams(R), Dutch Boy(R), Krylon(R),
Kem-Tone(R), Pratt & Lambert(R), Minwax(R), Ronseal(TM), Colorgin(TM),
Globo(TM), Sumare(R), Andina(TM) and Marson(TM).

PATENTS

     Although patents and licenses are not of material importance to the
business of the Company as a whole or any Segment, the International Coatings
Segment and the international operations of the Automotive Finishes Segment
derive a portion of their income from the license of technology, trademarks and
trade names to foreign companies.

BACKLOG AND PRODUCTIVE CAPACITY

     Backlog orders are not significant in the business of any Segment since
there is normally a short period of time between the placing of an order and
shipment. Sufficient productive capacity currently exists to fulfill the
Company's needs for paint and coatings products through 2000.

COMPETITION

     The Company experiences competition from many local, regional, national and
international competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and
sale of its coatings and related products. The Company is a leading manufacturer
and retailer of coatings and related products to professional, industrial,
commercial and retail customers, however, the Company's competitive position
varies for its different products and markets.

     In the Paint Stores Segment, competitors include other paint and wallpaper
stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware
chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets. Product quality, service and
price determine the competitive advantage for this Segment. In the Consumer and



International Coatings Segments, domestic and foreign competitors include
manufacturers and distributors of branded and private labeled coatings products.
Technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line,
technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive
factors for these Segments. The Automotive Finishes Segment has numerous
competitors in its domestic and foreign markets with broad product offerings and
several others with niche products. Key competitive factors for this Segment
include technology, product quality, distribution, service and price. The
Administrative Segment has many competitors consisting of other real estate
owners, developers and managers in areas in which this Segment owns property.
The main competitive factors are the availability of property and price.

EMPLOYEES

     The Company employed 25,697 persons at December 31, 1999.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

     For additional information regarding environmental matters, see pages 15
through 17 of the 1999 Annual Report under the caption entitled "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and
Notes 1, 4 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 28,
30 and 33, respectively, of the 1999 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein
by reference.

SEGMENT INFORMATION AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS

     For additional information regarding the Company's Reportable Segments and
foreign operations, see the financial table and the notes thereto on pages 12
and 13 of the 1999 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Additional information regarding risks attendant to foreign operations is set
forth on pages 18 and 20 of the 1999 Annual Report under the caption entitled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations," which is incorporated herein by reference.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

     Certain statements contained in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations", "Business" and elsewhere in this
report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon management's expectations
and beliefs concerning future events and discuss, among other things,
anticipated future performance and revenues, expected growth and future business
plans. Words and phrases such as "expects", "anticipates", "believes", "will
likely result", "will continue", "plans to" and similar expressions are intended
to identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are
necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are
outside the control of the Company, that could cause actual results to differ
materially from such statements. These uncertainties and other factors include
such things as: general business conditions, strengths of retail economies and
the growth in the coatings industry; competitive factors, including pricing
pressures and product innovation and quality; raw material availability and
pricing; changes in the Company's relationships with customers and suppliers;
the ability of the Company to successfully integrate recent and future
acquisitions into its existing operations; changes in general domestic economic
conditions such as inflation rates, interest rates and tax rates; risks and
uncertainties associated with the Company's expansion into foreign markets,
including inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign
investment and repatriation restrictions and other external economic and
political factors; increasingly stringent domestic and foreign governmental
regulations including those affecting the environment; inherent uncertainties
involved in assessing the Company's potential liability for environmental
remediation-related activities; the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of
pending and future litigation and other claims, including the lead pigment and
lead paint lawsuits; and unusual weather conditions.

     Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such
statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any
forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events
or otherwise.



ITEM 2.  DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

     The Company owns its corporate headquarters located in Cleveland, Ohio. The
Company's principal manufacturing and distribution facilities are located as set
forth below. The Company believes its manufacturing and distribution facilities
are well-maintained and are suitable and adequate, and have sufficient
productive capacity, to meet its current needs.

PAINT STORES SEGMENT

                            Manufacturing Facilities
                           -------------------------

Arlington, Texas                                                           Owned
Calgary, Alberta, Canada                                                  Leased
Columbus, Ohio                                                             Owned
Edison, New Jersey                                                         Owned
Fort Wayne, Indiana                                                       Leased
Greensboro, North Carolina                                                 Owned
Grimsby, Ontario, Canada                                                   Owned
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania                                                  Leased
Memphis, Tennessee                                                         Owned
Mexico City, Mexico                                                        Owned
Ontario, California                                                       Leased
Portsmouth, Virginia                                                       Owned
Rockford, Illinois                                                        Leased
San Diego, California                                                     Leased
Spartanburg, South Carolina                                               Leased
Wichita, Kansas                                                            Owned

                            Distribution Facilities
                             ----------------------

Mexico City, Mexico                                                        Owned
Vancouver, Alberta, Canada                                                Leased

CONSUMER SEGMENT

                            Manufacturing Facilities
                           -------------------------

Baltimore, Maryland                                                        Owned
Bedford Heights, Ohio                                                      Owned
Chicago, Illinois                                                          Owned
Coffeyville, Kansas                                                        Owned
Crisfield, Maryland                                                       Leased
Deshler, Ohio                                                              Owned
Elk Grove, Illinois                                                        Owned
Emeryville, California                                                     Owned
Ennis, Texas                                                              Leased
Flora, Illinois                                                            Owned
Fort Erie, Ontario, Canada                                                 Owned
Fountain Inn, South Carolina                                               Owned
Garland, Texas                                                             Owned
Greensboro, North Carolina                                                 Owned
Havre de Grace, Maryland                                                   Owned
Holland, Michigan                                                          Owned
Lawrenceville, Georgia                                                     Owned
Morrow, Georgia                                                            Owned
Olive Branch, Mississippi                                                  Owned
Orlando, Florida                                                           Owned
Victorville, California                                                    Owned

                            Distribution Facilities
                             ----------------------

Bedford Heights, Ohio                                                     Leased
Buford, Georgia                                                           Leased
Cranberry Run, Maryland                                                   Leased
Dayton Valley, Nevada                                                      Owned
Effingham, Illinois                                                       Leased
Fredericksburg, Pennsylvania                                               Owned
Reno, Nevada                                                               Owned
San Juan, Puerto Rico                                                     Leased
Vaughan, Ontario, Canada                                                  Leased
Waco, Texas                                                               Leased
Winter Haven, Florida                                                      Owned

AUTOMOTIVE FINISHES SEGMENT

                            Manufacturing Facilities
                            ------------------------

Arica, Chile                                                               Owned
Kingston, Jamaica                                                          Owned
Richmond, Kentucky                                                         Owned
Santiago, Chile*                                                           Owned
Sao Paulo, Brazil                                                          Owned
Texcocco, Mexico                                                           Owned



                            Distribution Facilities
                             ----------------------

Kingston, Jamaica                                                          Owned
Reno, Nevada                                                              Leased
Richmond, Kentucky                                                         Owned
Santiago, Chile*                                                           Owned
Sao Paulo, Brazil                                                          Owned
Zaragoza, Mexico                                                           Owned

INTERNATIONAL COATINGS SEGMENT

                            Manufacturing Facilities
                           -------------------------

Buenos Aires, Argentina                                                    Owned
Santiago, Chile*                                                           Owned
Sao Paulo, Brazil(4)                                                       Owned
Sheffield, England                                                         Owned

                            Distribution Facilities
                             ----------------------

Buenos Aires, Argentina                                                    Owned
Santiago, Chile*                                                           Owned
Santiago, Chile                                                           Leased
Sao Paulo, Brazil(4)                                                       Owned
Lima, Peru                                                                Leased

* This facility is shared between the Automotive Finishes and International
Coatings Segments.

     The operations of the Paint Stores Segment included 2,396 company-operated
paint stores, of which 215 were owned, in the United States, Canada, Virgin
Islands, Puerto Rico and Mexico at December 31, 1999. The Paint Stores Segment
is divided into four separate operating divisions and certain operations in
Mexico, each of which is responsible for the paint stores located within its
geographical region. At the end of 1999, the Mid Western Division operated 645
paint stores primarily located in the midwestern and upper west coast states and
western Canada, the Eastern Division operated 481 paint stores along the upper
east coast and New England states and eastern Canada, the Southeastern Division
operated 624 paint stores principally covering the lower east and gulf coast
states and Puerto Rico, and the South Western Division operated 573 paint stores
in the plains and the lower west coast states. The Paint Stores Segment also
included 73 paint stores in Mexico. The Paint Stores Segment opened 73 net new
paint stores in 1999 and relocated 41.

     The Automotive Finishes Segment included 121 company-operated automotive
branches, of which one was owned, in the United States and 51 leased
company-operated stores and branches in Canada, Chile, Brazil and Jamaica at
December 31, 1999. The International Coatings Segment included 43
company-operated specialty paint stores, of which 4 were owned, in Chile and
Brazil. All real property within the Administrative Segment is owned by the
Company except for one warehouse lease. For additional information regarding
real property within the Administrative Segment, see the information set forth
in Item 1 of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference. For
additional information regarding real property leases, see Note 8 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 33 of the 1999 Annual Report, which
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Reference is made to the legal proceeding brought by the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality, which was reported in the Company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1999. On
May 3, 1999, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality issued a letter of
violation regarding the Company's Holland, Michigan facility. The Company
believes it has resolved this matter with the Department of Environmental
Quality in satisfaction of both federal and state requirements. The Company
expects to enter into a consent decree pursuant to which the Company will pay a
civil penalty of $176,500 and agree to adhere to a compliance program and to
perform certain recordkeeping, reporting and testing regarding the Company's
operations at the facility.

     For additional information regarding environmental matters and other legal
proceedings, see pages 15 through 17 of the 1999 Annual Report under the caption
entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" and Notes 1, 4 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages 28, 30 and 33, respectively, of the 1999 Annual
Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders
during the fourth quarter of 1999.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following is the name, age and present position of each of the
Executive Officers at February 29, 2000, as well as all prior positions held by
each during the last five years.



     Mr. Breen has served as Chairman since April 1980. Mr. Breen served as
Chief Executive Officer from January 1979 to October 1999 and President from
March 1999 to October 1999. Mr. Breen has served as a Director since April 1979.

     Mr. Connor has served as Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since
October 1999. Mr. Connor served as President, Paint Stores Group from August
1997 to October 1999 and President & General Manager, Diversified Brands
Division from April 1994 to August 1997. Mr. Connor has served as a Director
since October 1999.

     Mr. Scaminace has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since
October 1999. Mr. Scaminace served as President, Consumer Group from July 1998
to October 1999, President & General Manager, Coatings Division from June 1997
to July 1998, and President & General Manager, Automotive Division from April
1994 to June 1997. Mr. Scaminace has served as a Director since October 1999.

     Mr. Pitorak has served as Senior Vice President -- Finance, Treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer since April 1992.

     Mr. Ault has served as Vice President -- Corporate Controller since January
1987.

     Mr. Galasso has served as President & General Manager, Automotive Division
since June 1997. Mr. Galasso served as Vice President & Director -- Operations,
Automotive Division from May 1992 to June 1997.

     Mr. Hopkins has served as Vice President -- Human Resources since August
1997. Mr. Hopkins served as Vice President -- Human Resources, Paint Stores
Group from February 1996 to August 1997 and Director of Human Resources, Paint
Stores Group from November 1989 to February 1996.

     Mr. Ivy has served as Vice President -- Corporate Planning and Development
since April 1992.

     Mr. Morikis has served as President, Paint Stores Group since October 1999.
Mr. Morikis served as President & General Manager, Eastern Division, Paint
Stores Group from July 1998 to October 1999, Senior Vice



President & Director -- Marketing, Paint Stores Group from September 1997 to
July 1998 and Division Vice President -- Sales, Eastern Division, Paint Stores
Group from April 1994 to September 1997.

     Mr. Seitz has served as President, Consumer Group since October 1999. Mr.
Seitz served as Vice President of Operations, Consumer Group from July 1998 to
October 1999, Vice President of Operations, Coatings Division from December 1995
to July 1998 and Vice President of Logistics, Coatings Division from December
1994 to December 1995.

     Mr. Stellato has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
since July 1991.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Sherwin-Williams common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
traded under the symbol SHW. The number of shareholders of record at February
28, 2000 was 11,412. Information regarding market prices and dividend
information with respect to Sherwin-Williams common stock is set forth on page
39 of the 1999 Annual Report under the caption entitled "Shareholder
Information," which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
(Millions of Dollars, except per share data)



(a) Pre-acquisition amounts for Thompson Minwax Holding Corp., acquired on
    January 7, 1997 using the purchase method of accounting, are not included.
    Therefore, amounts are not comparable to 1997 and beyond. See Note 2 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 29 of the 1999 Annual
    Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further acquisition
    and merger information.

(b) Pre-acquisition amounts for Thompson Minwax Holding Corp. and Pratt &
    Lambert United, Inc., acquired on January 7, 1997 and January 10, 1996,
    respectively, using the purchase method of accounting, are not included.
    Therefore, amounts are not comparable to 1996 and beyond.

(c) Amounts reflect adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
    128, "Earnings Per Share," effective December 31, 1997. All amounts shown
    for periods prior to adoption have been restated. See Note 1 and Note 15 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 29 and 37,
    respectively, of the 1999 Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by
    reference, for further per share information.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     The information required by this item is set forth on pages 14 through 21
of the 1999 Annual Report under the caption entitled "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," which is
incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company is exposed to market risk through various financial
instruments, including fixed rate debt instruments. The Company does not believe
that any potential loss related to these financial instruments will have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of
operations or liquidity.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     Information required by this item is set forth on pages 24 through 37 of
the 1999 Annual Report under the captions entitled "Statements of Consolidated
Income," "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows,"
"Statements of Consolidated Shareholders' Equity," and "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements," which is incorporated herein by reference. Unaudited
quarterly data is set forth in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 36 and 37 of the 1999 Annual Report, which is incorporated
herein by reference. The Report of Independent Auditors is set forth on page 14
of this report.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information regarding Directors is set forth under the caption entitled
"Election of Directors" in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

     The information regarding Executive Officers is set forth under the caption
entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this report, which
is incorporated herein by reference.

     The information regarding compliance with Section 16 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth under the caption entitled "Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Proxy Statement, which is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this item is set forth on pages 6 through 17 of
the Proxy Statement and under the caption entitled "Compensation of Directors"
in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
          MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this item is set forth under the captions
entitled "Security Ownership of Management" and "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners" in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this item is set forth under the captions
entitled "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" and "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K



(b) Reports on Form 8-K -- The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
    October 25, 1999, reporting under Item 5 certain changes in the management
    and Board of Directors of the Company.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Shareholders and Board of Directors
The Sherwin-Williams Company
Cleveland, Ohio

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The
Sherwin-Williams Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
1999. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
Index at Item 14(a). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
The Sherwin-Williams Company and subsidiaries at December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Cleveland, Ohio
January 25, 2000

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
(SCHEDULE II)

Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts are as follows:



     Bad debt expense increase for 1999 is primarily due to increased activity
in accounts doubtful of collection and charges to expense to reconcile open
prior years' accounts receivable balances of certain customers.

Activity related to other asset reserve is as follows:



     Charges to expense consist primarily of amortization of goodwill and
intangibles. Other additions (deductions) consist primarily of actual costs
incurred and balance sheet reclassifications and, in 1999 and 1997, removal of
fully-amortized items.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 15th day of
March, 2000.

                                             THE SHERWIN-WILLIAMS COMPANY

                                             By: /s/ L. E. STELLATO
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                   L. E. Stellato, Secretary

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities
indicated on March 15, 2000.






* The undersigned, by signing his name hereto, does sign this report on behalf
  of the designated officers and directors of The Sherwin-Williams Company
  pursuant to Powers of Attorney executed on behalf of each such officer and
  director.





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX







