ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Founded in 1941, Coach was acquired by Sara Lee Corporation (“Sara Lee”) in 1985. In June 2000, Coach was incorporated in the state of Maryland. In October 2000, Coach was listed on the New York Stock Exchange and sold approximately 68 million shares of common stock, split adjusted, representing 19.5% of the then outstanding shares. In April 2001, Sara Lee completed a distribution of its remaining ownership in Coach via an exchange offer, which allowed Sara Lee stockholders to tender Sara Lee common stock for Coach common stock.

Coach’s international expansion strategy is to enter into joint ventures and distributor relationships to build market presence and capability. To further accelerate brand awareness, aggressively grow market share and to exercise greater control of our brand, Coachhas historically acquired its partner’s interests.

•In June 2001, Coach Japan was initially formed as a joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation. On July 1, 2005, we purchased Sumitomo’s 50% interest in Coach Japan.

•In fiscal 2011, the Company purchased a non-controlling interest in a joint venture with Hackett Limited to expand the Coach business in Europe. Through the joint venture, the Company opened retail locations in Spain, Portugal and the United Kingdom in fiscal 2011, in France and Ireland in fiscal 2012 and in Germany in fiscal 2013. In the beginning of fiscal 2014, the Company purchased Hackett Limited’s 50% interest in the joint venture.

•Coach acquired the domestic retail businesses from its distributors as follows:

nFiscal 2009: Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China (“Coach China”).

nFiscal 2012: Singapore and Taiwan.

nFiscal 2013: Malaysia and South Korea.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

See Note 16, "Segment Information" for more information.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Coach has grown from a family-run workshop in a Manhattan loft to a leading New York design house of modern luxury accessories and lifestyle collections. Coach is one of the most recognized fine accessories brands in the U.S. and in targeted international markets. We offer premium lifestyle accessories to a loyal and engaged customer base and provide consumers with fresh, compelling and innovative products that are extremely well made, at an attractive price. Coach’s product offering uses a broad range of high quality leathers, fabrics and materials. In response to our customer’s demands for both fashion and function, Coach offers updated styles and multiple product categories which address an increasing share of our customer’s accessory wardrobe. Coach created a sophisticated, modern and inviting environment to showcase our product assortment and reinforce a consistent brand positioning wherever the consumer may shop. We utilize a flexible, cost-effective global sourcing model, in which independent manufacturers supply our products, allowing us to bring our broad range of products to market rapidly and efficiently.

Coach offers a number of key differentiating elements that set it apart from the competition, including:

A Distinctive Brand— The Coach brand represents a blend of classic American style with a distinctive New York spirit, offering a design that is known for a distinctive combination of style and function. Coach offers lifestyle products that are relevant, extremely well made and provide excellent value.

A Market Leadership Position With Growing International Recognition— Coach is a global leader in premium handbags and lifestyle accessories. Our long-standing reputation and distinctive image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, sales channels and international markets, including within North America, in which Coach is the leading brand, and in Japan, where Coach is the leading imported luxury handbag and accessories brand by units sold. Coach is also gaining traction in China and other Asian markets, Europe and Latin America.

A Loyal And Involved Consumer— Coach consumers have a strong emotional connection with the brand. Part of the Company’s everyday mission is to cultivate consumer relationships by strengthening this emotional connection.









A Multi-Channel Global Distribution Model— Coach products are available in image-enhancing locations globally wherever our consumer chooses to shop including: retail and outlet stores, directly operated concession shop-in-shops, online, and department and specialty stores. This allows Coach to maintain a dynamic balance as results do not depend solely on the performance of a single channel or geographic area. Our stores showcase the world of Coach and enhance the shopping experience while reinforcing the image of the Coach brand. The modern store design creates a distinctive environment to display our products. Coach has committed a future investment of approximately $500 million to further elevate its in-store imagery. Store associates are trained to maintain high standards of visual presentation, merchandising and customer service.

Innovation With A Consumer-Centric Focus— Coach listens to its consumer through rigorous consumer research and strong consumer orientation. To truly understand globalization and its impact on Coach, we also need to understand the local context in each market, learning about our consumer wherever Coach is sold. Coach works to anticipate the consumer’s changing needs by keeping the product assortment fresh and compelling.

PRODUCTS

Coach's product offerings include modern luxury accessories and lifestyle collections, including women's and men's bags, women’s and men’s small leather goods, business cases, footwear, wearables including outerwear, watches, weekend and travel accessories, scarves, sunwear, fragrance, jewelry, travel bags and other lifestyle products. The following table shows net sales for each product category represented:

Fiscal Year Ended(dollars in millions)June 28,2014June 29,2013June 30,2012Amount% of totalnet salesAmount% of totalnet salesAmount% of totalnet salesWomen's Handbags$2,64255%$2,92358%$2,88661%Women's Accessories1,046221,196231,17024Men's69214600124249All Other Products426935672836Total Sales$4,806100%$5,075100%$4,763100%

Women’s Handbags— Women’s handbag collections feature classically inspired designs as well as fashion designs. Typically, there are three to four collections per quarter and four to seven styles per collection. These collections are designed to meet the fashion and functional requirements of our broad and diverse consumer base.

Women’s Accessories— Women’s accessories include small leather goods and novelty accessories. Women’s small leather goods, which complement our handbags, include money pieces, wristlets and cosmetic cases. Key rings and charms are also included in this category.

Men’s— Men’s bag collections include business cases, computer bags, messenger-style bags and totes. Men’s small leather goods consist primarily of wallets, card cases and belts. Novelty accessories include time management and electronic accessories.

All Other Productsconsist of the following:

Footwear— Jimlar Corporation (“Jimlar”) has been Coach's footwear licensee since 1999. Footwear is distributed through select Coach retail stores our Internet sales sites and U.S. department stores and military locations. Footwear sales are comprised primarily of women’s styles.

Wearables— This category is comprised of certain seasonal lifestyle apparel collections, including outerwear, ready-to-wear and cold weather accessories, such as gloves, scarves and hats. These products are primarily women's and contain a fashion assortment in all components of this category.

Jewelry— This category is comprised of bracelets, necklaces, rings and earrings offered in sterling silver, leather and non-precious metals.

Travel Bags— The travel collections are comprised of luggage and related accessories, such as travel kits and valet trays.

Sunwear— Luxottica Group SPA (“Luxottica”) has been Coach’s eyewear licensee since 2012. This collection is a collaborative effort that combines the Coach aesthetic for fashion accessories with the latest fashion directions in sunglasses.









Coach sunglasses are sold in Coach retail stores and our Internet sales sites, department stores worldwide, select sunglass retailers and optical retailers in major global markets.

Watches— Movado Group, Inc. (“Movado”) has been Coach's watch licensee since 1998 and has developed a distinctive collection of watches inspired primarily by women's collections with select men's styles. The Coach watch collection is currently sold in Coach retail stores and our Internet sales sites, department stores worldwide, and select watch retailers in major global markets.

Fragrance— Starting in the spring of 2010, Estée Lauder Companies Inc. (“Estée Lauder”), through its subsidiary, Aramis Inc., became Coach's fragrance licensee. Fragrance is distributed through Coach retail stores, our Internet sales sites, department and specialty stores worldwide, and select perfumeries in major global markets. Coach offers women's fragrance collections which include eau de perfume spray, eau de toilette spray, purse spray, and body lotion. Coach also offers men's fragrance collections.

DESIGN AND MERCHANDISING

Coach's New York-based design team is responsible for conceptualizing and directing the design of all Coach products. Designers have access to Coach's extensive archives of product designs created since the Company's inception, which are a valuable resource for new product concepts. Coach designers are also supported by a strong merchandising team that analyzes sales, market trends and consumer preferences to identify market opportunities that help guide each season's design process. Merchandisers also analyze, edit, add and discontinue products to maximize sales across all channels. The product category teams, each comprised of design, merchandising/product development and sourcing specialists help Coach execute design concepts that are consistent with the brand's strategic direction.

Coach's design and merchandising teams work in close collaboration with all of our licensing partners to ensure that the licensed products (watches, footwear, eyewear and fragrance) are conceptualized and designed to address the intended market opportunity and convey the distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with the Coach brand.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, Stuart Vevers joined the Company as Executive Creative Director, replacing Reed Krakoff, who departed from the Company in connection with the sale of the Reed Krakoff business.

SEGMENTS

In fiscal2014, the Company’s operations reflect five operating segments aggregated into two reportable segments:

•North America, which includes sales to North American consumers through Coach-operated stores (including the Internet) and sales to wholesale customers. This segment represented approximately65% of Coach's total net sales in fiscal2014.

•International, which includes sales to consumers through Coach-operated stores (including the Internet) and concession shop-in-shops in Japan and mainland China, Coach-operated stores and concession shop-in-shops in Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia, South Korea, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Germany and Italy, as well as sales to wholesale customers and distributors in approximately35countries. This segment represented approximately34% of total net sales in fiscal2014.

Other, which is not a reportable segment, consists of sales and expenses generated in ancillary channels, including licensing and disposition.

North America Segment

North American Retail Stores— Coach stores are located in regional shopping centers and metropolitan areas throughout the U.S. and Canada. The retail stores carry an assortment of products depending on their size, location and customer preferences. Our flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in high-visibility locations within New York City, Chicago, Beverly Hills, San Francisco, Toronto and Vancouver.











In fiscal 2014, we have reduced the number of both retail stores and total square footage, as we continue to optimize our real estate position. We expect this trend to accelerate in the next fiscal year with the anticipated closure of approximately 70 retail stores in fiscal 2015, attributable to our Transformation Plan, as described in Note 3, "Transformation, Restructuring and Other Related Actions." The number of Coach retail stores and their total and average square footage remained relatively constant in fiscal 2013 when compared from fiscal 2012.

Fiscal Year EndedJune 28,2014June 29,2013June 30,2012Retail stores332351354Net (decrease) increase vs. prior year(19)(3)9% (decrease) increase vs. prior year(5.4)%(0.8)%2.6%Retail square footage910,003952,422959,099Net (decrease) increase vs. prior year(42,419)(6,677)22,822% (decrease) increase vs. prior year(4.5)%(0.7)%2.4%Average square footage2,7412,7132,709

North American Outlet Stores— Coach's outlet stores serve as an efficient means to sell manufactured-for-outlet product, including outlet exclusives, and to a lesser extent, discontinued and irregular inventory outside the retail channel. These stores operate under the Coach name and are geographically positioned primarily in established outlet centers that are generally more than 30 miles from major markets.

Coach’s outlet store design, visual presentations and customer service levels support and reinforce the brand's image. Through these outlet stores, Coach targets value-oriented customers.

The expansion in the number of North America Coach outlet stores and their total and average square footage is shown in the following table:

Fiscal Year EndedJune 28,2014June 29,2013June 30,2012Outlet stores207193169Net increase vs. prior year142426% increase vs. prior year7.3%14.2%18.2%Outlet square footage1,132,714982,202789,699Net increase vs. prior year150,512192,503140,605% increase vs. prior year15.3%24.4%21.7%Average square footage5,4725,0894,673

Over the next few years, we expect to see modest to no growth in outlet store square footage as we continue to optimize our real estate position across channels by expanding our most productive stores to accommodate a broader expression of lifestyle assortment while also assessing opportunities to close under-performing stores.

Internet— Coach views its website as a key communications vehicle for the brand to promote traffic in Coach retail stores and department store locations and build brand awareness. With approximately 76 million unique visits to www.coach.com in fiscal2014, our online store provides a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a selected offering of the latest styles and colors. Our e-commerce programs also include our invitation-only outlet Internet sales site.

North America Wholesale— Coach began as a U.S. wholesaler to department stores and this channel continues to remain a part of our overall consumer reach. Today, we work closely with our partners to ensure a clear and consistent product presentation. Coach enhances its presentation through the creation of shop-in-shops with proprietary Coach fixtures within the department store environment. Coach custom tailors its assortments through wholesale product planning and allocation processes to match the attributes of our department store consumers in each local market. The Company continues to closely manage inventories in this channel given the highly promotional environment at point-of-sale. The Company has implemented automatic replenishment with major accounts in an effort to optimize inventory across wholesale doors. Over the next few years, we expect to make significant investment in the elevation of shop-in-shop environments in this channel.









Coach's products are sold in approximately 1,000 wholesale locations in the U.S. and Canada. Our most significant U.S. wholesale customers are Macy’s (including Bloomingdale's), Dillard's, Nordstrom, Lord & Taylor, The Bay, Bon Ton, Belk and Von Maur. Coach products are also available on these customers' websites.

International Segment

Our International Marketsoperate department store concession shop-in-shop locations and freestanding flagship, retail and outlet stores as well as e-commerce websites. Flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in select high-visibility shopping districts within Tokyo, Shanghai, Hong Kong and London.

The following table shows the number of international directly-operated locations and their total and average square footage:

Fiscal Year EndedJune 28,2014June 29,2013June 30,2012Coach Japan:Locations:198191180Net increase vs. prior year71111% increase vs. prior year3.7%6.1%6.5%Square footage:355,014350,994320,781Net increase vs. prior year4,02030,21316,856% increase vs. prior year1.1%9.4%5.5%Average square footage1,7931,8381,782Coach International, excluding Japan:Locations:277218188Net increase vs. prior year593046% increase vs. prior year27.1%16.0%32.4%Square footage:563,981417,573344,615Net increase vs. prior year146,40872,958103,742% increase vs. prior year35.1%21.2%43.1%Average square footage2,0361,9151,833

Coach Japan plans to maintain a relatively consistent store count over the next several years. Furthermore, the balance of Coach International, excluding Japan, anticipates modest growth in our store count over the next few years.

International Wholesale— In addition to our company-operated stores, this channel includes sales to international wholesale distributors and authorized retailers. Travel retail represents the largest portion of our customers’ sales in this channel. However, we continue to drive growth by expanding our distribution to reach local consumers in new markets. Coach has developed relationships with a select group of distributors who sell Coach products through department stores and freestanding retail locations in approximately 35 countries. Coach's current network of international distributors serve the following domestic and/or travel retail markets: Argentina, Aruba, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Benelux, Brazil, Canada, China (including Hong Kong and Macau), Colombia, France, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, U.S. & Territories, Venezuela and Vietnam.

For locations not in freestanding stores, Coach has created shop-in-shops and other image enhancing environments to increase brand appeal and stimulate growth. Coach continues to improve productivity in this channel by opening larger image-enhancing locations, expanding existing stores and closing less productive stores. Coach's most significant international wholesale customers are the DFS Group, Everrich DFS Corp, Lotte Group, Shilla Group and Vantage Point. Coach's products are sold in approximately 280 wholesale locations.









Other

Licensing— In our worldwide licensing relationships, Coach takes an active role in the design process and controls the marketing and distribution of products under the Coach brand. Licensing revenue of approximately $27.9 million and $32.1 million in fiscal2014and fiscal2013, respectively, is included Other sales. (Other, which is not a reportable segment, consists of sales generated in ancillary channels). The licensing relationships as ofJune 28, 2014are as follows:

DateCategoryPartnerIntroductionExpirationFootwearJimlar19992015EyewearLuxottica20122016WatchesMovado19982015FragranceEstee Lauder20102015

Products made under license are, in most cases, sold through all of the channels discussed above and, with Coach's approval, these licensees have the right to distribute Coach brand products selectively through several other channels: shoes in department store salons, watches in selected jewelry stores and eyewear and sunwear in selected optical retailers. These venues provide additional, yet controlled, exposure of the Coach brand. Coach's licensing partners pay royalties to Coach on their net sales of Coach branded products. However, such royalties are not material to the Coach business as they currently comprise less than 1% of Coach’s total net sales. The licensing agreements generally give Coach the right to terminate the license if specified sales targets are not achieved.

MARKETING

Coach’s global marketing strategy is to deliver a consistent, relevant and multi-layered message every time the consumer comes in contact with the Coach brand through our communications and visual merchandising. The Coach image is created and executed by our creative marketing, visual merchandising and public relations teams. Coach also has a sophisticated consumer and market research capability, which helps us assess consumer attitudes and trends.

In conjunction with promoting a consistent global image, Coach uses its extensive customer database and consumer knowledge to target specific products and communications to specific consumers to efficiently stimulate sales across all distribution channels.

Coach engages in several consumer communication initiatives, including direct marketing activities and national, regional and local advertising. Total expenses related to consumer communications in fiscal2014were $130.1 million, approximately 3% of net sales.

Coach’s wide range of direct marketing activities includes email contacts and catalogs targeted to promote sales to consumers in their preferred shopping venue. In addition to building brand awareness, the Company's website serves as an effective brand communication vehicle by providing a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a strategic offering of the latest styles and colors, which drives store traffic and enables the collection of customer data.

As part of Coach's direct marketing strategy, the Company uses its database primarily consisting of approximately 24 million households in North America and 10 million households in Asia. Email contacts and direct mail pieces are Coach's principal means of communication and are sent to selected households to stimulate consumer purchases and build brand awareness. The growing number of visitors to the Company's e-commerce sites in the U.S., Canada, Japan and China provides an opportunity to increase the size of these databases.

In fiscal2014, Coach had informational websites in Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, France, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Ireland, South Korea, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand, UAE, United Kingdom, Venezuela and Vietnam. In addition, the Company utilizes and continues to explore new technologies such as blogs and social networking websites, including Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, WeChat and Sina Weibo, as a cost effective consumer communication opportunity to increase on-line and store sales, acquire new customers and build brand awareness.

The Company also runs national, regional and local marketing campaigns in support of its major selling seasons. In fiscal 2014, the Company refreshed its strategy to expand its marketing campaigns to more clearly message its brand and products under an effortless New York style positioning. We plan to continue to support this strategy in the future through an increased presence in relevant fashion, media events and publications.









MANUFACTURING

Coach carefully balances its commitments to a limited number of “better brand” partners with demonstrated integrity, quality and reliable delivery. Our manufacturers are located in many countries, including Vietnam, China, the Philippines, India, Thailand, Italy, Hong Kong and the United States. Coach continues to evaluate new manufacturing sources and geographies to deliver the finest quality products at the lowest cost and help limit the impact of manufacturing in inflationary markets. During fiscal2014, the Company had five vendors who each provided slightly over 10% of Coach’s total units. These five vendors are geographically dispersed and have multiple locations in different countries. No other individual vendor currently provides more than approximately 10% of Coach’s total units. Before partnering with a vendor, Coach evaluates each facility by conducting a quality and business practice standards audit. Periodic evaluations of existing, previously approved facilities are conducted on a random basis. We believe that all of our manufacturing partners are in material compliance with Coach’s integrity standards.

These independent manufacturers each or in aggregate support a broad mix of product types, materials and a seasonal influx of new, fashion oriented styles, which allows us to meet shifts in marketplace demand and changes in consumer preferences.

Our raw material suppliers, independent manufacturers and licensing partners, must achieve and maintain Coach's high quality standards, which are an integral part of the Coach identity. One of Coach's keys to success lies in the rigorous selection of raw materials. Coach has longstanding relationships with purveyors of fine leathers and hardware. Although Coach products are manufactured by independent manufacturers, we maintain control of the raw materials that are used in all of our products. Compliance with quality control standards is monitored through on-site quality inspections at all independent manufacturing facilities.

We maintain control of the supply chain process from design through manufacture. We are able to do this by qualifying raw material suppliers and by maintaining sourcing management offices in Vietnam, China, Hong Kong and the Philippines that work closely with our independent manufacturers. This broad-based, global manufacturing strategy is designed to optimize the mix of cost, lead times and construction capabilities. Over the last several years, we have increased the presence of our senior management in the countries of our manufacturers to enhance control over decision making and ensure the speed with which we bring new product to market is maximized.

DISTRIBUTION

In North America, Coach operates an 850,000 square foot distribution and consumer service facility in Jacksonville, Florida. This automated facility uses a bar code scanning warehouse management system. Coach's distribution center employees use handheld scanners to read product bar codes, which allow them to more accurately process and pack orders, track shipments, manage inventory and generally provide excellent service to our customers. Coach's products are primarily shipped to Coach retail stores and wholesale customers via express delivery providers and common carriers, and direct to consumers via express delivery providers.

Outside of North America, the Company has established regional distribution centers, through third-parties, in Shanghai, China and Oldenzaal, The Netherlands. The Company also operates local distribution centers, through third-parties, in Japan, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and South Korea.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

The foundation of Coach's information systems is its Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. This fully integrated system supports finance and accounting, procurement, inventory control, sales and store replenishment. The system functions as a central repository for all of Coach's transactional information, resulting in increased efficiencies, improved inventory control and a better understanding of consumer demand.

Complementing its ERP system are several other system solutions, each of which Coach believes is suitable for its needs. The data warehouse system summarizes the transaction information and provides a global platform for management reporting. The supply chain management systems support sales, procurement, inventory planning and reporting functions. In North America, product fulfillment is facilitated by Coach's highly automated warehouse management system and electronic data interchange system, while the unique requirements of Coach's Internet business are supported by Coach’s order management system. Internationally, Coach selectively relies on the warehouse and distribution systems owned by the third-parties that operate certain of our international distributions centers. Additionally, the point-of-sale system supports all in-store transactions, distributes management reporting to each store, and collects sales and payroll information on a daily basis. This daily collection of store sales and inventory information results in early identification of business trends and provides a detailed baseline for store inventory replenishment. Updates and upgrades of these systems are made on a periodic basis in order to ensure that we constantly improve our functionality.

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS

Coach owns all of the material worldwide trademark rights used in connection with the production, marketing and distribution of all of its products. In addition, it licenses trademarks and copyrights used in connection with limited edition collaborative special









projects. Coach also owns and maintains worldwide registrations for trademarks in all relevant classes of products in each of the countries in which Coach products are sold. Major trademarks include COACH, COACH NEW YORK, COACH and Horse & Carriage Design, COACH and Story Patch Design, COACH and Lozenge Design, COACH and Tag Design, Signature C Design, and Op Art C Design, and COACH LEATHERWARE EST. 1941 (the "Heritage Logo"). Coach is not dependent on any one particular trademark or design patent although Coach believes that the Coach name is important for its business. In addition, several of Coach's products are covered by design patents and a utility patent application. Coach aggressively polices its trademarks and trade dress, and pursues infringers both domestically and internationally. It also pursues counterfeiters domestically and internationally through leads generated internally, as well as through its network of investigators, the Coach hotline and business partners around the world.

Coach expects that its material trademarks will remain in existence for as long as Coach continues to use and renew them.

SEASONALITY

Because Coach products are frequently given as gifts, Coach experiences seasonal variations in its net sales, operating cash flows and working capital requirements, primarily related to seasonal holiday shopping. During the first fiscal quarter, Coach builds inventory for the holiday selling season. In the second fiscal quarter, its working capital requirements are reduced substantially as Coach generates higher net sales and operating income, especially during the holiday months of November and December. Fluctuations in net sales, operating income and operating cash flows in any fiscal quarter may be affected by other events affecting retail sales, including adverse weather conditions.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Most of Coach's imported products are subject to duties, indirect taxes, quotas and non-tariff trade barriers that may limit the quantity of products that Coach may import into the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such products. Coach is not materially restricted by quotas or other government restrictions in the operation of its business, however customs duties do represent a material part of total product cost. To maximize opportunities, Coach operates complex supply chains through foreign trade zones, bonded logistic parks and other strategic initiatives such as free trade agreements. Additionally, the Company operates a direct import business in many countries worldwide. As a result, Coach is subject to stringent government regulations and restrictions with respect to its cross-border activity either by the various customs and border protection agencies or by other government agencies which control the quality and safety of the Company’s products. Coach maintains an internal global trade and customs organization to help manage its import/export activity.

COMPETITION

The premium handbag and accessories industry is highly competitive. The Company competes primarily with European and American luxury and accessible luxury brands as well as private label retailers, including some of Coach’s wholesale customers. Over the last several years the category has grown, encouraging the entry of new competitors as well as increasing the competition from existing competitors. This increased competition drives consumer interest in this brand loyal category.

EMPLOYEES

As ofJune 28, 2014, Coach employed approximately 17,200 people globally, including both full and part time employees, but excluding seasonal and temporary employees. Of these employees, approximately 7,300 and 7,000 were full time and part time employees, respectively, in the global retail field. Approximately 60 of Coach’s employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Coach believes that its relations with its employees are good, and has never encountered a strike or work stoppage.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

See the Note 16, "Segment Information" presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for geographic information.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on our investor website, located atwww.coach.com/investorsunder the caption “SEC Filings”, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are also available on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website atwww.sec.gov.No information contained on any of our websites is intended to be included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The Company has included the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer certifications regarding its public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibit 31.1 to this report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the Company filed with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the CEO’s certification regarding the Company’s









compliance with the NYSE’s Corporate Governance Listing Standards (“Listing Standards”) pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards, which indicated that the CEO was not aware of any violations of the Listing Standards by the Company.













