ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Coach, Inc. (the "Company") is a leading New York design house of modern luxury accessories and lifestyle brands.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF COACH BRAND

The Coach brand is one of the most recognized fine accessories brands in both North America and in targeted international markets, and has a rich heritage of pairing exceptional leathers and materials with innovative design.

We offer premium lifestyle accessories to a loyal and engaged customer base and provide consumers with fresh, compelling and innovative products that are extremely well made, at an attractive price. Our product offering uses a broad range of high quality leathers, fabrics and materials. In response to our customer’s demands for both fashion and function, Coach offers updated styles and multiple product categories which address an increasing share of our customer’s accessory wardrobe. Coach presents a sophisticated, modern and inviting environment to showcase our product assortment and reinforce a consistent brand positioning wherever the consumer may shop. We utilize a flexible, cost-effective global sourcing model, in which independent manufacturers supply our products, allowing us to bring our broad range of products to market rapidly and efficiently.

We offer a number of key differentiating elements that set us apart from the competition, including:

A Distinctive Brand— The Coach brand represents a blend of classic American style with a distinctive New York spirit, offering a design that is known for a distinctive combination of style and function. Coach offers lifestyle products that are relevant, extremely well made and provide excellent value.

A Market Leadership Position With Growing International Recognition— The Coach brand is a global leader in premium handbags and lifestyle accessories. Our long-standing reputation and distinctive image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, sales channels and international markets, including within North America and Japan. Coach also continues to gain traction in mainland China and other Asian markets, Europe and Latin America.

A Loyal And Involved Consumer— Consumers have a strong emotional connection with the Coach brand. Part of our everyday mission is to cultivate consumer relationships by strengthening this sentiment and brand loyalty.

A Multi-Channel Global Distribution Model— Products are available in image-enhancing environments globally wherever our consumer chooses to shop including: retail and outlet stores, directly operated concession shop-in-shops, online, and department and specialty stores. This allows us to maintain a dynamic balance as results do not depend solely on the performance of a single channel or geographic area. Our stores showcase the world of our products and enhance the shopping experience while reinforcing the image of our brand. The modern store design creates a distinctive environment to display our products. We continue to be committed to the elevation and enhancement of our in-store imagery through strategic investments in Coach branded stores and wholesale locations. Furthermore, store associates are trained to maintain high standards of visual presentation, merchandising and customer service.

Innovation With A Consumer-Centric Focus— Coach listens to its consumer through rigorous consumer research and strong consumer orientation. To truly understand globalization and its related impact, we also need to understand the local context in each market, learning about our consumer wherever our products are sold. The Coach brand also works to anticipate the consumer’s changing needs by keeping the product assortment fresh and compelling.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF STUART WEITZMAN BRAND

Stuart Weitzman Intermediate LLC ("Stuart Weitzman") is a global leader in designer footwear, and is built upon the concept of crafting a beautifully-constructed shoe, merging fashion and function. Stuart Weitzman is a leading women's premium footwear brand in North America, with a strong opportunity for growth both within North America and international markets. The design team, under Mr. Stuart Weitzman, is responsible for conceptualizing and directing the design of all products, and works closely with its manufacturing partners, primarily in Spain, to construct a broad mix of footwear styles. These manufacturers in aggregate support a broad mix of materials and seasonal influx of new, fashion oriented styles, which allows the Stuart Weitzman brand to quickly meet marketplace demands and changing consumer preferences.

Stuart Weitzman products, which substantially consist of footwear, are sold primarily through wholesale concepts (including shop-in-shops) as well as through retail concepts (including directly operated stores and e-commerce sites). As ofJune 27, 2015, Stuart Weitzman employed approximately 500 people globally, including both full and part time employees, but excluding seasonal and temporary employees. Of these employees, approximately 300 were retail employees in the global retail field. The Company










owns all of the material worldwide trademark rights (including the Stuart Weitzman trademark) used in connection with the production, marketing and distribution of Stuart Weitzman products. In addition, the Company owns registrations for design patents and applications for utility patents for Stuart Weitzman products.

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Founded in 1941, Coach Inc. was acquired by Sara Lee Corporation (“Sara Lee”) in 1985. In June 2000, Coach was incorporated in the state of Maryland. In October 2000, Coach was listed on the New York Stock Exchange and sold approximately 68 million shares of common stock, split adjusted, representing 19.5% of the then outstanding shares. In April 2001, Sara Lee completed a distribution of its remaining ownership in Coach via an exchange offer, which allowed Sara Lee stockholders to tender Sara Lee common stock for Coach common stock.

Coach’s international expansion strategy is to enter into joint ventures and distributor relationships to build market presence and capability. To further accelerate brand awareness, aggressively grow market share and to exercise greater control of our brand, Coach has historically acquired its partner’s interests.

•In June 2001, Coach Japan was initially formed as a joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation. On July 1, 2005, we purchased Sumitomo’s 50% interest in Coach Japan.

•In fiscal 2011, the Company purchased a non-controlling interest in a joint venture with Hackett Limited to expand the Coach business in Europe. Through the joint venture, the Company opened retail locations in Spain, Portugal and the United Kingdom in fiscal 2011, in France and Ireland in fiscal 2012 and in Germany in fiscal 2013. In the beginning of fiscal 2014, the Company purchased Hackett Limited’s remaining 50% interest in the joint venture, and has continued to expand its presence in Europe.

•Coach acquired the domestic retail businesses from its distributors as follows:

nFiscal 2009: Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China (“Greater China”).

nFiscal 2012: Singapore and Taiwan.

nFiscal 2013: Malaysia and South Korea.

On May 4, 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of luxury footwear company Stuart Weitzman to complement its current leadership position in premium handbags and accessories. The operating results of the Stuart Weitzman brand have been consolidated in the Company's operating results commencing on May 4, 2015.

SEGMENTS

In fiscal2015, the Company hasthreereportable segments:

•North America, which includes sales to North American consumers through Coach-branded stores (including the Internet) and sales to wholesale customers. This segment represented approximately59% of Coach's total net sales in fiscal2015.

•International, which includes sales to consumers through Coach-branded stores (including the Internet) and concession shop-in-shops in Japan and mainland China, Coach-operated stores and concession shop-in-shops in Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia, South Korea, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Italy, Belgium and the Netherlands as well as sales to wholesale customers and distributors in approximately45countries. This segment represented approximately39% of total net sales in fiscal2015.

•Other, which consists of sales and expenses generated by the Coach brand in other ancillary channels, including licensing and disposition. Other also consists of sales and expenses generated by the Stuart Weitzman brand during the final two months of fiscal 2015. This segment represented approximately2% of total net sales in fiscal2015.

North America Segment

North American Retail Stores— Coach retail stores are located in regional shopping centers and metropolitan areas throughout the U.S. and Canada. The retail stores carry an assortment of products depending on their size, location and customer preferences. Our flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in high-visibility locations.










In fiscal 2015, we have reduced the number of retail stores and total square footage, as we continue to optimize our real estate position. We expect this trend to continue in the next fiscal year with the anticipated closure of approximately 15-20 North America retail stores in the fiscal year ending July 2, 2016 ("fiscal 2016"), attributable to our Transformation Plan, as described in Note 3, "Transformation and Other Actions."

Fiscal Year EndedJune 27,2015June 28,2014June 29,2013Retail stores258332351Net decrease vs. prior year(74)(19)(3)% decrease vs. prior year(22.3)%(5.4)%(0.8)%Retail square footage728,833910,003952,422Net decrease vs. prior year(181,170)(42,419)(6,677)% decrease vs. prior year(19.9)%(4.5)%(0.7)%Average square footage2,8252,7412,713

North American Outlet Stores— Coach's outlet stores serve as an efficient means to sell manufactured-for-outlet product, including outlet exclusives, and to a lesser extent, discontinued inventory outside the retail channel. These stores operate under the Coach name and are geographically positioned primarily in established outlet centers that are generally in close proximity to major markets.

Coach’s outlet store design, visual presentations and customer service levels support and reinforce the brand's image. Through these outlet stores, Coach targets value-oriented customers.

The change in the number of North America Coach outlet stores and their total and average square footage is shown in the following table:

Fiscal Year EndedJune 27,2015June 28,2014June 29,2013Outlet stores204207193Net (decrease) increase vs. prior year(3)1424% (decrease) increase vs. prior year(1.4)%7.3%14.2%Outlet square footage1,189,0181,132,714982,202Net increase vs. prior year56,304150,512192,503% increase vs. prior year5.0%15.3%24.4%Average square footage5,8295,4725,089

Over the next few years, we expect to continue to see modest to no growth in outlet store square footage as we continue to optimize our real estate position across channels by expanding our most productive stores to accommodate a broader expression of lifestyle assortment while continuing to assess opportunities to close under-performing stores.

Internet— Coach views its www.coach.com website as a key communications vehicle for the brand to promote traffic in Coach retail stores and department store locations and build brand awareness, as well as an additional channel to sell Coach brand products directly to customers. With approximately 64 million unique visits to www.coach.com in fiscal2015, our online store provides a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a selected offering of the latest styles and colors. Our e-commerce programs also include our invitation-only outlet Internet sales site, where we have considerably reduced the number of promotional events since fiscal 2014.

North America Wholesale— Coach began as a U.S. wholesaler to department stores and this channel continues to remain a part of our overall consumer reach. Today, we work closely with our partners to ensure a clear and consistent product presentation. Coach enhances its presentation through the creation of shop-in-shops with proprietary Coach fixtures within the department store environment. Coach custom tailors its assortments through wholesale product planning and allocation processes to match the attributes of our department store consumers in each local market. Coach continues to closely manage inventories in this channel given the highly promotional environment at point-of-sale. Coach utilizes automatic replenishment with major accounts in an effort to optimize inventory across wholesale doors. Over the next year, we expect to continue investing in the elevation of shop-in-shop environments.










Coach brand's products are sold in approximately 1,000 wholesale locations in the U.S. and Canada. Our most significant U.S. wholesale customers are Macy’s (including Bloomingdale's), Dillard's, Nordstrom, Lord & Taylor, The Bay, Bon Ton, Belk and Von Maur. Coach products are also available on these customers' websites.

International Segment

Our International Marketsoperate department store concession shop-in-shop locations and freestanding flagship, retail and outlet stores as well as e-commerce websites. Flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in select high-visibility shopping districts.

The following table shows the number of international directly-operated locations and their total and average square footage:

Fiscal Year EndedJune 27,2015June 28,2014June 29,2013Coach International:Locations:503475409Net increase vs. prior year286641% increase vs. prior year5.9%16.1%11.1%Square footage:1,030,695918,995768,567Net increase vs. prior year111,700150,428103,171% increase vs. prior year12.2%19.6%15.5%Average square footage2,0491,9351,879

We expect our International segment to reflect modest growth in store count over the next few years, particularly within mainland China and Europe.

International Wholesale— In addition to our company-operated stores, this channel includes sales to international wholesale distributors and authorized retailers. Travel retail represents the largest portion of our customers’ sales in this channel. However, we continue to drive growth by expanding our distribution to reach local consumers in new markets. Coach has developed relationships with a select group of distributors who sell Coach products through department stores and freestanding retail locations in approximately 45 countries. Coach's current network of international distributors serve the following domestic and/or travel retail markets: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Benelux, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Greater China, Colombia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Uruguay, U.S. & Territories, Venezuela and Vietnam.

For locations not in freestanding stores, Coach has created shop-in-shops and other image enhancing environments to increase brand appeal and stimulate growth. Coach continues to improve productivity in this channel by opening larger image-enhancing locations, expanding existing stores and closing less productive stores. Coach's most significant international wholesale customers are the DFS Group, Everrich DFS Corp, Lotte Group, Shilla Group and Vantage Point. Coach's products are sold in approximately 430 wholesale locations.

Other Segment

Stuart Weitzman— The Stuart Weitzman brand is sold primarily through department stores in North America and international distributors, including approximately 600 wholesale locations, and within numerous independent third party distributors. Its most significant wholesale customers include Nordstrom, Saks, and Neiman Marcus. Furthermore, Stuart Weitzman products are also sold in freestanding flagship and retail stores, and e-commerce websites. As ofJune 27, 2015, Stuart Weitzman had 54 directly operated stores with a total square footage of 91,101 and an average square footage of 1,687.










Licensing— In our worldwide licensing relationships, Coach takes an active role in the design process and controls the marketing and distribution of products under the Coach brand. Licensing revenue was approximately $31.9 million and $27.9 million in fiscal2015and fiscal2014, respectively. Our key licensing relationships as ofJune 27, 2015are as follows:

DateCategoryPartnerIntroductionExpirationFootwearJimlar Corporation19992017EyewearLuxottica(1)20122016WatchesMovado19982020FragranceEstee Lauder(2)20102015FragranceInterparfums(2)20152026



(1)The Luxottica licensing relationship is expected to automatically renew in June 2016 with a new expiration date in calendar year 2020.

(2)The Estee Lauder licensing relationship expired on June 30, 2015. Coach entered into a new licensing agreement with Interparfums in April 2015, expiring in June 2026.

Products made under license are, in most cases, sold through all of the channels discussed above and, with the Company's approval, these licensees have the right to distribute products selectively through several other channels, including: shoes in department store salons, watches in selected jewelry stores and eyewear and sunwear in selected optical retailers. These venues provide additional, yet controlled, exposure of our brands. Our licensing partners pay royalties on their net sales of our branded products. However, such royalties are not material to our business as they currently comprise less than 1% of the Company's total net sales. The licensing agreements generally give Coach the right to terminate the license if specified sales targets are not achieved.

The Other segment also consists of sales generated in ancillary channels.

See Note 16, "Segment Information" for more information about all segments.

The following discussion - including "Products," "Design and Merchandising," "Marketing," "Manufacturing," "Distribution," "Information Systems," "Trademarks and Patents," "Seasonality," "Government Regulation," "Competition" and "Employees" - is based on the Coach brand.

PRODUCTS

Coach brand’s primary product offerings, manufactured by third-party suppliers, include women’s and men’s bags, small leather goods, footwear, business cases, ready-to-wear including outerwear, watches, weekend and travel accessories, scarves, sunwear, fragrance, jewelry, travel bags and other lifestyle products. The following table shows net sales for each product category represented for the Coach brand (in millions):

Fiscal Year EndedJune 27,2015June 28,2014June 29,2013Amount% of totalnet salesAmount% of totalnet salesAmount% of totalnet salesWomen's Handbags$2,389.658%$2,826.159%$3,177.262%Women's Accessories709.417860.318954.219Men's680.416691.814599.512All Other Products369.29428.09344.57Total Sales$4,148.6100%$4,806.2100%$5,075.4100%

During fiscal 2015, the Company reevaluated its product categories and determined that small accessory handbags and travel bags, which were previously classified as "Women's Accessories" and "All Other Products," respectively, are viewed by management to be part of its "Women's Handbag" product category. Prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the current period classification.










Women’s Handbags— Women’s handbag collections feature classically inspired designs as well as fashion designs. Typically, there are three to four collections per quarter and four to seven styles per collection. These collections are designed to meet the fashion and functional requirements of our broad and diverse consumer base.

Women’s Accessories— Women’s accessories include small leather goods and novelty accessories. Women’s small leather goods, which complement our handbags, include money pieces, wristlets and cosmetic cases. Key rings and charms are also included in this category.

Men’s— Men’s bag collections include business cases, computer bags, messenger-style bags and totes. Men’s small leather goods consist primarily of wallets, card cases and belts. Novelty accessories include time management and electronic accessories.

All Other Products(excluding the Stuart Weitzman brand) consist of the following:

Footwear— Jimlar Corporation ("Jimlar") has been Coach brand's footwear licensee since 1999. Footwear is distributed through select Coach retail stores our Internet sales sites and U.S. department stores and military locations. Footwear sales are comprised primarily of women’s styles.

Wearables— This category is comprised of certain seasonal lifestyle apparel collections, including outerwear, ready-to-wear and cold weather accessories, such as gloves, scarves and hats. These products are primarily women's and contain a fashion assortment in all components of this category.

Jewelry— This category is comprised of bracelets, necklaces, rings and earrings offered in sterling silver, leather and non-precious metals.

Sunwear— Luxottica Group SPA (“Luxottica”) has been Coach’s eyewear licensee since 2012. This collection is a collaborative effort that combines the Coach aesthetic for fashion accessories with the latest fashion directions, primarily in sunglasses. Our sunglasses are sold in retail stores and on our Internet sales sites, department stores worldwide, select sunglass retailers and optical retailers in major global markets.

Watches— Movado Group, Inc. (“Movado”) has been Coach's watch licensee since 1998 and has developed a distinctive collection of watches inspired primarily by women's collections with select men's styles. The Coach watch collection is currently sold in Coach retail stores and on our Internet sales sites, department stores worldwide, and select watch retailers in major global markets.

Fragrance— Upon the expiration of Estée Lauder Companies Inc. (“Estée Lauder”) contract in June 2015, Coach entered into a new licensing agreement with Interparfums, which will expire in June 2026. Fragrance is distributed through Coach retail stores, our Internet sales sites, department and specialty stores worldwide, and select perfumeries in major global markets. Coach offers women's fragrance collections which include eau de perfume spray, eau de toilette spray, purse spray, and body lotion. Coach also offers men's fragrance collections.

DESIGN AND MERCHANDISING

Coach brand's design team, led by the Executive Creative Director, Stuart Vevers, is responsible for conceptualizing and directing the design of all products. Designers have access to Coach's extensive archives of product designs created since Coach's inception, which are a valuable resource for new product concepts. Our designers are also supported by a strong merchandising team that analyzes sales, market trends and consumer preferences to identify market opportunities that help guide each season's design process and create a globally relevant product assortment. Merchandisers also manage the product life cycle to maximize sales and profitability across all channels. The product category teams, each comprised of design, merchandising/product development and sourcing specialists help the Coach brand execute design concepts that are consistent with the brand's strategic direction.

Our design and merchandising teams work in close collaboration with all of our licensing partners to ensure that the licensed products (watches, footwear, eyewear and fragrance) are conceptualized and designed to address the intended market opportunity and convey the distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with our brands.

MARKETING

Coach brand's global marketing strategy is to deliver a consistent, relevant and multi-layered message every time the consumer comes in contact with our brands through our communications and visual merchandising. Coach's image is created and executed by our creative marketing, visual merchandising and public relations teams, as well as with outside creative agencies. Coach also has a sophisticated consumer and market research capability, which helps us assess consumer attitudes and trends.

In conjunction with promoting a consistent global image, Coach uses its extensive customer database and consumer knowledge to target specific products and communications to specific consumers to efficiently stimulate sales across all distribution channels.










Coach engages in several consumer communication initiatives, including direct marketing activities and national, regional and local advertising. Total expenses attributable to Coach brand marketing-related events in fiscal2015were $158.9 million, or approximately 4% of net sales, compared to$130.1million in fiscal 2014, or approximately 3% of net sales.

Coach's wide range of direct marketing activities includes email contacts and catalogs targeted to promote sales to consumers in their preferred shopping venue. In addition to building brand awareness and driving online revenue, Coach's websites serve as an effective brand communication vehicle by providing a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a strategic offering of the latest styles and colors, which drives store traffic and enables the collection of customer data.

As part of the Coach's direct marketing strategy, we use databases primarily consisting of approximately 28 million households in North America, approximately 11 million households in Asia and approximately 380,000 households in Europe. Email contacts and direct mail pieces are an important part of Coach's communication and are sent to selected households to stimulate consumer purchases and build brand awareness. Visitors to Coach's e-commerce sites in the U.S., Canada, Japan and China provide an opportunity to increase the size of these databases, as well as point of sale transactions globally except where restricted.

In fiscal2015, Coach had informational websites in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Venezuela, Australia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, France, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Bahrain. In addition, the Company utilizes and continues to explore digital technologies such as blogs and social media websites, including Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, WeChat and Sina Weibo, as a cost effective consumer communication opportunity to increase on-line and store sales, acquire new customers and build brand awareness.

The Coach brand also runs national, regional and local marketing campaigns in support of its major selling seasons. In fiscal 2014, Coach refreshed its strategy to expand its marketing campaigns to more clearly message its brand and products under an effortless New York style positioning. We plan to continue to support this strategy in the future through an increased presence in relevant fashion, media events and publications.

MANUFACTURING

Coach carefully balances its commitments to a limited number of “better brand” partners with demonstrated integrity, quality and reliable delivery. Our manufacturers are located in many countries, including Vietnam, mainland China, the Philippines, India, Thailand, Italy, Hong Kong, Myanmar and the United States. Coach continues to evaluate new manufacturing sources and geographies to deliver the finest quality products at the lowest cost and help limit the impact of manufacturing in inflationary markets. During fiscal2015, the Coach brand had two vendors who each provided slightly over 10% of the Company's total units. These two vendors are geographically dispersed and have multiple locations in different countries. No other individual vendor currently provides more than approximately 10% of Coach’s total units. Before partnering with a vendor, Coach evaluates each facility by conducting a quality and business practice standards audit. Periodic evaluations of existing, previously approved facilities are conducted on a random basis. We believe that all of our manufacturing partners are in material compliance with Coach’s integrity standards.

These independent manufacturers each or in aggregate support a broad mix of product types, materials and a seasonal influx of new, fashion oriented styles, which allows us to meet shifts in marketplace demand and changes in consumer preferences.

Our raw material suppliers, independent manufacturers and licensing partners, must achieve and maintain high quality standards, which are an integral part of our identity. One of Coach's keys to success lies in the rigorous selection of raw materials. Coach has longstanding relationships with purveyors of fine leathers and hardware. Although Coach products are manufactured by independent manufacturers, we maintain a level of oversight in the selection of the raw materials that are used in all of our products. Compliance with quality control standards is monitored through on-site quality inspections at all independent manufacturing facilities.

We maintain control of the supply chain process from design through manufacture. We are able to do this by qualifying raw material suppliers and by maintaining sourcing management offices in Vietnam, Greater China, Hong Kong and the Philippines that work closely with our independent manufacturers. This broad-based, global manufacturing strategy is designed to optimize the mix of cost, lead times and construction capabilities.

DISTRIBUTION

In North America, the Company operates an 850,000 square foot distribution and consumer service facility in Jacksonville, Florida for Coach brand products. This automated facility uses a bar code scanning warehouse management system. Coach's distribution center employees use handheld scanners to read product bar codes, which allow them to more accurately process and pack orders, track shipments, manage inventory and generally provide excellent service to our customers. Coach brand products are primarily shipped to Coach retail stores and wholesale customers via express delivery providers and common carriers, and direct to consumers via express delivery providers.










Outside of North America, the Company has established regional distribution centers, through third-parties, in Shanghai, China and Oldenzaal, The Netherlands for Coach brand products. Coach also operates local distribution centers, through third-parties, in Japan, China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore and Macau for Coach brand products.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

The foundation of Coach's information systems is its Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. This integrated system supports finance and accounting, procurement, inventory control, sales and store replenishment. The system functions as a central repository for Coach's transactional information, resulting in increased efficiencies, improved inventory control and a better understanding of consumer demand.

Complementing its ERP system are several other system solutions, each of which Coach believes is suitable for its needs. The data warehouse system summarizes the transaction information and provides a global platform for management reporting. The supply chain management systems support product development, procurement, inventory planning and reporting functions. In North America, product fulfillment is facilitated by Coach's highly automated warehouse management system and electronic data interchange system, while the unique requirements of Coach's Internet business are supported by Coach’s order management and e-commerce systems. Internationally, Coach selectively relies on the warehouse and distribution systems owned by the third-parties that operate certain of our international distributions centers. Additionally, the point-of-sale system supports all in-store transactions, distributes management reporting to each store, and collects sales and payroll information on a daily basis. This daily collection of store sales and inventory information results in early identification of business trends and provides a detailed baseline for store inventory replenishment. Updates and upgrades of these systems are made on a periodic basis in order to ensure that we constantly improve our functionality.

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS

Coach owns all of the material worldwide trademark rights used in connection with the production, marketing and distribution of all of its products. In addition, it licenses trademarks and copyrights used in connection with the production, marketing and distribution of certain categories of goods and limited edition collaborative special projects. Coach also owns and maintains worldwide registrations for trademarks in all relevant classes of products in each of the countries in which our products are sold. Major trademarks include COACH, COACH NEW YORK, COACH and Horse & Carriage Design, COACH and Story Patch Design, COACH and Lozenge Design, COACH and Tag Design, Signature C Design, and Op Art C Design and COACH LEATHERWARE EST. 1941 (the "Heritage Logo"). Coach is not dependent on any one particular trademark or design patent although Coach believes that the Coach name is important for its business. In addition, several of Coach's products are covered by design patents and a utility patent application. Coach aggressively polices its trademarks and trade dress, and pursues infringers both domestically and internationally. It also pursues counterfeiters domestically and internationally through leads generated internally, as well as through its network of investigators, the Coach hotline and business partners around the world.

Coach expects that its material trademarks will remain in full force and effect for as long as we continue to use and renew them.

SEASONALITY

Because Coach brand's products are frequently given as gifts, we experience seasonal variations in net sales, operating cash flows and working capital requirements, primarily related to seasonal holiday shopping. During the first fiscal quarter, we build inventory for the holiday selling season. In the second fiscal quarter, working capital requirements are reduced substantially as we generate higher net sales and operating income, especially during the holiday months of November and December. Fluctuations in net sales, operating income and operating cash flows in any fiscal quarter may be affected by other events affecting retail sales, including adverse weather conditions.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Most of Coach's imported products are subject to duties, indirect taxes, quotas and non-tariff trade barriers that may limit the quantity of products that Coach may import into the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such products. Coach is not materially restricted by quotas or other government restrictions in the operation of its business, however customs duties do represent a material part of total product cost. To maximize opportunities, Coach operates complex supply chains through foreign trade zones, bonded logistic parks and other strategic initiatives such as free trade agreements. Additionally, Coach operates a direct import business in many countries worldwide. As a result, Coach is subject to stringent government regulations and restrictions with respect to its cross-border activity either by the various customs and border protection agencies or by other government agencies which control the quality and safety of Coach’s products. Coach maintains an internal global trade and customs organization to help manage its import/export activity.










COMPETITION

The premium handbag, footwear and accessories industry is highly competitive. Coach competes primarily with European and American luxury and accessible luxury brands as well as private label retailers, including some of Coach's wholesale customers. Over the last several years these categories have grown, encouraging the entry of new competitors as well as increasing the competition from existing competitors. This increased competition drives consumer interest in this brand loyal category.

EMPLOYEES

As ofJune 27, 2015, Coach brand employed approximately 15,800 globally, including both full and part time employees, but excluding seasonal and temporary employees. Of these employees, approximately 7,400 and 5,700 were full time and part time employees, respectively, in the global retail field. Coach believes that its relations with its employees are good, and has never encountered a strike or work stoppage.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

See the Note 16, "Segment Information" presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for geographic information.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on our investor website, located atwww.coach.com/investorsunder the caption “SEC Filings”, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are also available on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website atwww.sec.gov.No information contained on any of our websites is intended to be included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The Company has included the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer certifications regarding its public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibit 31.1 to this report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the Company filed with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the CEO’s certification regarding the Company’s compliance with the NYSE’s Corporate Governance Listing Standards (“Listing Standards”) pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards, which indicated that the CEO was not aware of any violations of the Listing Standards by the Company.














