ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Founded in 1941, Coach was acquired by Sara Lee Corporation (“Sara Lee”) in 1985. In June 2000, Coach was incorporated in the state of Maryland. In October 2000, Coach was listed on the New York Stock Exchange and sold approximately 68 million shares of common stock, split adjusted, representing 19.5% of the outstanding shares. In April 2001, Sara Lee completed a distribution of its remaining ownership in Coach via an exchange offer, which allowed Sara Lee stockholders to tender Sara Lee common stock for Coach common stock.

Coach’s international expansion strategy is to enter into joint ventures and distributor relationships to build market presence and capability. To further accelerate brand awareness, aggressively grow market share and to exercise greater control of our brand, Coach may subsequently acquire its partner’s interests.

•In June 2001, Coach Japan was initially formed as a joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation. On July 1, 2005, we purchased Sumitomo’s 50% interest in Coach Japan.

•In fiscal 2011, the Company purchased a non-controlling interest in a joint venture with Hackett Limited to expand the Coach business in Europe. Through the joint venture, the Company opened retail locations in Spain, Portugal and Great Britain in fiscal 2011, in France and Ireland in fiscal 2012 and in Germany in fiscal 2013. In July 2013 (fiscal 2014), the Company purchased Hackett Limited’s 50% interest in the joint venture.

•Coach acquired the domestic retail businesses from its distributors as follows:

■Fiscal 2009: Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China (“Coach China”).

■Fiscal 2012: Singapore and Taiwan.

■Fiscal 2013: Malaysia and Korea.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

See the Segment Information note presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Coach has grown from a family-run workshop in a Manhattan loft to a leading American marketer of fine accessories and gifts for women and men. Coach is one of the most recognized fine accessories brands in the U.S. and in targeted international markets. We offer premium lifestyle accessories to a loyal and growing customer base and provide consumers with fresh, compelling and innovative products that are extremely well made, at an attractive price. Coach’s modern, fashionable handbags and accessories use a broad range of high quality leathers, fabrics and materials. In response to our customer’s demands for both
fashion and function, Coach offers updated styles and multiple product categories which address an increasing share of our customer’s accessory wardrobe. Coach has created a sophisticated, modern and inviting environment to showcase our product assortment and reinforce a consistent brand positioning wherever the consumer may shop. We utilize a flexible, cost-effective global sourcing model, in which independent manufacturers supply our products, allowing us to bring our broad range of products to market rapidly and efficiently.

Coach offers a number of key differentiating elements that set it apart from the competition, including:

A Distinctive Brand— The Coach brand represents a blend of classic American style with a distinctive New York spirit, offering a design that is known for a distinctive combination of style and function. Coach offers accessible luxury products that are relevant, extremely well made and provide excellent value.









A Market Leadership Position With Growing Global Share— Coach is a global leader in premium handbags and accessories. In North America, Coach is the leading brand. In Japan, Coach is the leading imported luxury handbag and accessories brand by units sold. Coach is also gaining traction in China, other Asian markets, Europe, and Latin America.



A Loyal And Involved Consumer— Coach consumers have a strong emotional connection with the brand. Part of the Company’s everyday mission is to cultivate consumer relationships by strengthening this emotional connection.

A Multi-Channel Global Distribution Model— Coach products are available in image-enhancing locations globally wherever our consumer chooses to shop including: retail stores and factory outlets, directly operated shop-in-shops, online, and department and speciality stores. This allows Coach to maintain a dynamic balance as results do not depend solely on the performance of a single channel or geographic area.

Innovation And A Consumer-Centric Focus— Coach listens to its consumer through rigorous consumer research and strong consumer orientation. To truly understand globalization and its impact on Coach, we also need to understand the local context in each market, learning about our consumer wherever Coach is sold. Coach works to anticipate the consumer’s changing needs by keeping the product assortment fresh and compelling.

We believe our unique positioning, characterized by these differentiating elements, is a key competitive advantage. We hold the number one position within the U.S. premium handbag and accessories market and the number two position within the Japanese imported luxury handbag and accessories market.

PRODUCTS

Coach's product offerings include women’s and men’s bags, accessories, footwear, wearables, jewelry, travel bags, sunwear, watches and fragrance. The following table shows the percent of net sales that each product category represented:



Fiscal Year EndedJune 29,2013June 30,2012July 2,2011Women's Handbags58%61%63%Women's Accessories232425Men's1185All Other Products877Total100%100%100%

Women’s Handbags— Women’s handbag collections feature classically inspired designs as well as fashion designs. Typically, there are three to four collections per quarter and four to seven styles per collection. These collections are designed to meet the fashion and functional requirements of our broad and diverse consumer base.

Women’s Accessories— Women’s accessories include small leather goods and novelty accessories. Women’s small leather goods, which complement our handbags, include money pieces, wristlets and cosmetic cases. Key rings and charms are also included in this category.

Men’s— Men’s bag collections include business cases, computer bags, messenger-style bags and totes. Men’s small leather goods consist primarily of wallets, card cases and belts. Novelty accessories include time management and electronic accessories.

All Other Productsconsist of the following:

Footwear— Jimlar Corporation (“Jimlar”) has been Coach's footwear licensee since 1999. Footwear is distributed through select Coach retail stores, coach.com and about 1,050 U.S. department stores and military locations. Footwear sales are comprised primarily of women’s styles.









Wearables— This category is comprised of scarves, jackets, gloves and hats, including both cold weather and fashion. The assortment is primarily women's and contains a fashion assortment in all components of this category.

Jewelry— This category is comprised of bracelets, necklaces, rings and earrings offered in sterling silver, leather and non-precious metals.

Travel Bags— The travel collections are comprised of luggage and related accessories, such as travel kits and valet trays.

Sunwear— Luxottica Group SPA (“Luxottica”) has been Coach’s eyewear licensee since 2012. This collection is a collaborative effort that combines the Coach aesthetic for fashion accessories with the latest fashion directions in sunglasses. Coach sunglasses are sold in Coach retail stores and coach.com, department stores, select sunglass retailers and optical retailers in major markets.

Watches— Movado Group, Inc. (“Movado”) has been Coach's watch licensee since 1998 and has developed a distinctive collection of watches inspired primarily by the women's collections with select men's styles.

Fragrance— Starting in the spring of 2010, Estée Lauder Companies Inc. (“Estée Lauder”), through its subsidiary, Aramis Inc., became Coach's fragrance licensee. Fragrance is distributed through Coach retail stores, coach.com, about 4,660 U.S. department and specialty stores and 1,400 international locations. Coach offers four women’s fragrance collections and one men’s fragrance collection. The women's fragrance collections include eau de perfume spray, eau de toilette spray, purse spray, body lotion and body splashes.

DESIGN AND MERCHANDISING

In fiscal 2013, Reed Krakoff, President, Executive Creative Director, announced his intention to not renew his contract and it is expected that in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 he will depart from the Company in connection with the sale of the Reed Krakoff business. In June 2013, the Company announced that Stuart Vevers will assume the position of Executive Creative Director, joining Coach in the first quarter of fiscal 2014.

Coach's New York-based design team is responsible for conceptualizing and directing the design of all Coach products. Designers have access to Coach's extensive archives of product designs created over the past 70 years, which are a valuable resource for new product concepts. Coach designers are also supported by a strong merchandising team that analyzes sales, market trends and consumer preferences to identify business opportunities that help guide each season's design process. Merchandisers also analyze, edit, add and delete products to maximize sales across all channels. The product category teams, each comprised of design,
merchandising/product development and sourcing specialists help Coach execute design concepts that are consistent with the brand's strategic direction.

Coach's design and merchandising teams work in close collaboration with all of our licensing partners to ensure that the licensed products (watches, footwear, eyewear and fragrance) are conceptualized and designed to address the intended market opportunity and convey the distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with the Coach brand.

SEGMENTS

In fiscal 2013, the Company changed its reportable segments to a geographic focus, recognizing the expansion and growth of sales through its international markets. This is consistent with organizational changes announced during fiscal 2012.

Prior to this change, the Company was organized and reported its results based on directly-operated and indirect business units. The Company has recently experienced substantial growth in its international business, while at the same time has converted formerly wholesale businesses in several key markets such as China, Taiwan and Korea to Company-operated businesses. Reflecting this growth and corresponding declines in indirect businesses relative to Company-operated, the Company implemented a realignment of its business units based on geography, consistent with the organizational changes.









In fiscal 2013, the Company’s operations reflect five operating segments aggregated into two reportable segments:

•North America, which includes sales to North American consumers through Company-operated stores, including the Internet, and sales to wholesale customers and distributors.

•International, which includes sales to consumers through Company-operated stores in Japan and mainland China, including the Internet, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and Korea and sales to wholesale customers and distributors in 25 countries.

North America Segment

The North America segment consists of direct-to-consumer and indirect channels, and includes sales to consumers through Company-operated stores, including the Internet, and sales to wholesale customers and distributors. This segment represented approximately 69% of Coach's total net sales in fiscal 2013.

North American Retail Stores— Coach stores are located in regional shopping centers and metropolitan areas throughout the U.S. and Canada. The retail stores carry an assortment of products depending on their size and location and customer preferences. Our flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in high-visibility locations such as New York, Chicago and San Francisco.

Our stores are sophisticated, sleek, modern and inviting. They showcase the world of Coach and enhance the shopping experience while reinforcing the image of the Coach brand. The modern store design creates a distinctive environment to display our products. Store associates are trained to maintain high standards of visual presentation, merchandising and customer service. The result is a complete statement of the Coach effortless New York style at the retail level.

The number of Coach retail stores and their total and average square footage has remained relatively constant over the last three fiscal years:



Fiscal Year EndedJune 29,2013June 30,2012July 2,2011Retail stores351354345Net (decrease) increase vs. prior year(3)93% (decrease) increase vs. prior year(0.8)%2.6%0.9%Retail square footage952,422959,099936,277Net (decrease) increase vs. prior year(6,677)22,8226,697% (decrease) increase vs. prior year(0.7)%2.4%0.7%Average square footage2,7132,7092,714

As we continue to optimize our current real estate positions at lease term over the next few years, the Company expects to close underperforming doors and expand locations in key markets, resulting in a slight decrease in total square footage and a slight increase in average store square footage.

North American Factory Stores— Coach's factory stores serve as an efficient means to sell manufactured-for-factory-store product, including factory exclusives, as well as discontinued and irregular inventory outside the retail channel. These stores operate under the Coach name and are geographically positioned primarily in established outlet centers that are generally more than 30 miles from major markets.

Coach’s factory store design, visual presentations and customer service levels support and reinforce the brand's image. Through these factory stores, Coach targets value-oriented customers.









The expansion in the number of North America Coach factory stores and their total and average square footage is shown in the following table:



Fiscal Year EndedJune 29,2013June 30,2012July 2,2011Factory stores193169143Net increase vs. prior year242622% increase vs. prior year14.2%18.2%18.2%Factory square footage982,202789,699649,094Net increase vs. prior year192,503140,605100,297% increase vs. prior year24.4%21.7%18.3%Average square footage5,0894,6734,539

Over the next few years, we expect to see continued growth in factory store square footage, driven both by new distribution and expansions as we right size our most productive doors to accommodate broader expression of lifestyle assortment and increased volume.

Internet— Coach views its website as a key communications vehicle for the brand to promote traffic in Coach retail stores and department store locations and build brand awareness. With approximately 74 million unique visits to the e-commerce websites in fiscal 2013, our online store provides a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a selected offering of the latest styles and colors. Our e-commerce programs also include our invitation-only factory flash site and third-party flash sites.

U.S. Wholesale— Coach began as a U.S. wholesaler to department stores and this channel remains a part of our overall consumer reach. Today, we work closely with our partners to ensure a clear and consistent product presentation. Coach enhances its presentation through the creation of shop-in-shops with proprietary Coach fixtures, within the department store environment. Coach custom tailors its assortments through wholesale product planning and allocation processes to match the attributes of our department store consumers in each local market. While overall U.S. department store sales have slowed
over the last few years, the handbag and accessories category has remained strong. The Company continues to closely manage inventories in this channel given the highly promotional environment at point-of-sale. The Company has implemented automatic replenishment with major accounts in an effort to optimize inventory across wholesale doors. Over the next few years, we expect to make significant investment in the elevation of store environments in this channel.

Coach's products are sold in approximately 1,000 wholesale locations in the U.S. and Canada. Our most significant U.S. wholesale customers are Macy’s (including Bloomingdale's), Dillard's, Nordstrom, Saks Fifth Avenue, Lord & Taylor, The Bay, Bon Ton, Belk and Von Maur. Coach products are also available on macys.com, bloomingdales.com, dillards.com, nordstrom.com, lordandtaylor.com, thebay.com, bonton.com, belk.com and vonmaur.com.

International Segment

The International segment includes sales to consumers through Company-operated stores in Japan and mainland China, including the Internet, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and Korea, and sales to wholesale customers and distributors. The International segment represented approximately 31% of total net sales in fiscal 2013.

Our International Marketsoperate department store shop-in-shop locations and freestanding flagship, retail and factory stores as well as e-commerce websites. Flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in select shopping districts.









The following table shows the number of international directly-operated locations and their total and average square footage:



Fiscal Year EndedJune 29,2013June 30,2012July 2,2011Coach Japan:Locations:191180169Net increase vs. prior year11118% increase vs. prior year6.1%6.5%5.0%Square footage:350,994320,781303,925Net increase vs. prior year30,21316,85610,484% increase vs. prior year9.4%5.5%3.6%Average square footage1,8381,7821,798Coach China (including Hong Kong and Macau), Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and Korea:Locations:218188142Net increase vs. prior year304641% increase vs. prior year16.0%32.4%40.6%Square footage:417,573344,615240,873Net increase vs. prior year72,958103,74276,351% increase vs. prior year21.2%43.1%46.4%Average square footage1,9151,8331,696

Coach Japan plans to open new doors over the next several years, growing low to mid-single digits. The balance of Coach international (China, Asia and Europe) anticipate their owned-retail doors growing low double digit over the next few years.

Coach International— This channel represents sales to international wholesale distributors and authorized retailers. Travel retail represents the largest portion of our customers’ sales in this channel. However, we continue to drive growth by expanding our distribution to reach local consumers in emerging markets. Coach has developed relationships with a select group of distributors who sell Coach products through department stores and freestanding retail locations in 25 countries. Coach's current network of international distributors serves the following domestic and/or travel retail
markets: Aruba, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Brazil, China, Colombia, France, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Kuwait, Macau, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Panama, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, UAE, US & Territories, Venezuela and Vietnam.

For locations not in freestanding stores, Coach has created shop-in-shops and other image enhancing environments to increase brand appeal and stimulate growth. Coach continues to improve productivity in this channel by opening larger image-enhancing locations, expanding existing stores and closing less productive stores. Coach's most significant international wholesale customers are the DFS Group, Everrich DFS Corp, Lotte Group, Shilla Group and Vantage Point.

The following table shows the number of international wholesale locations at which Coach products are sold:



Fiscal Year EndedJune 29,2013June 30,2012July 2,2011International freestanding stores(1)427761International department store locations8787109Other international locations544141Total international wholesale locations183205211



(1)Decline in fiscal 2013 reflects transition to Company-operated stores due to acquisitions. See Note “Acquisitions.”









Other

Licensing— In our worldwide licensing relationships, Coach takes an active role in the design process and controls the marketing and distribution of products under the Coach brand. Licensing revenue of approximately $32.1 million and $28.5 million in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively, is included Other sales. (Other, which is not a reportable segment, consists of sales generated in ancillary channels). The licensing relationships as of June 29, 2013 are as follows:



DateCategoryPartnerIntroductionExpirationFootwearJimlarSpring '992015EyewearLuxotticaSpring '122016WatchesMovadoSpring '982015FragranceEstee LauderSpring '102015

Products made under license are, in most cases, sold through all of the channels discussed above and, with Coach's approval, these licensees have the right to distribute Coach brand products selectively through several other channels: shoes in department store shoe salons, watches in selected jewelry stores and eyewear and sunwear in selected optical retailers. These venues provide additional, yet controlled, exposure of the Coach brand. Coach's licensing partners pay royalties to Coach on their net sales of Coach branded products. However, such royalties are not material to the Coach business as they currently comprise less
than 1% of Coach’s total net sales. The licensing agreements generally give Coach the right to terminate the license if specified sales targets are not achieved.

MARKETING

Coach’s marketing strategy is to deliver a consistent and relevant message every time the consumer comes in contact with the Coach brand through our communications and visual merchandising. The Coach image is created and executed by our creative marketing, visual merchandising and public relations teams. Coach also has a sophisticated consumer and market research capability, which helps us assess consumer attitudes and trends.

In conjunction with promoting a consistent global image, Coach uses its extensive customer database and consumer knowledge to target specific products and communications to specific consumers to efficiently stimulate sales across all distribution channels.

Coach engages in several consumer communication initiatives, including direct marketing activities and national, regional and local advertising. Total expenses related to consumer communications in fiscal 2013 were $102.7 million, approximately 2% of net sales.

Coach’s wide range of direct marketing activities includes email contacts and catalogs targeted to promote sales to consumers in their preferred shopping venue. In addition to building brand awareness, the coach.com website serves as an effective brand communication vehicle by providing a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a strategic offering of the latest styles and colors, which drives store traffic and enables the collection of customer data.

As part of Coach's direct marketing strategy, the Company uses its database consisting of approximately 19 million households in North America and 8 million households in Asia. Email contacts and direct mail pieces are Coach's principal means of communication and are sent to selected households to stimulate consumer purchases and build brand awareness. The growing number of visitors to the coach.com e-commerce sites in the U.S., Canada, Japan and China provides an opportunity to increase the size of these databases.

In fiscal 2013, Coach had informational websites in Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, France, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Ireland, Korea, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand, UAE, United Kingdom, Venezuela and Vietnam. In addition, the Company utilizes and continues to explore new technologies such as blogs and social networking websites, including Twitter, Facebook, and Sina Weibo, as a cost effective consumer communication opportunity to increase on-line and store sales, acquire new customers and build brand awareness.









The Company also runs national, regional and local marketing campaigns in support of its major selling seasons.

MANUFACTURING

While all of our products are manufactured by independent manufacturers, we nevertheless maintain control of the supply chain process from design through manufacture. We are able to do this by qualifying raw material suppliers and by maintaining sourcing and quality control management offices in China, Hong Kong, Philippines Vietnam, South Korea and India that work closely with our independent manufacturers. This broad-based, global manufacturing strategy is designed to optimize the mix of cost, lead times and construction capabilities. Over the last several years, we have increased the presence of our senior management in the
countries of our manufacturers to enhance control over decision making and ensure the speed with which we bring new product to market is maximized.

These independent manufacturers each or in aggregate support a broad mix of product types, materials and a seasonal influx of new, fashion oriented styles, which allows us to meet shifts in marketplace demand and changes in consumer preferences. During fiscal 2013, approximately 69% of Coach's total net sales were generated from newly introduced products with no sales in the same quarter the previous year.

Our raw material suppliers, independent manufacturers and licensing partners, must achieve and maintain Coach's high quality standards, which are an integral part of the Coach identity. One of Coach's keys to success lies in the rigorous selection of raw materials. Coach has longstanding relationships with purveyors of fine leathers and hardware. Although Coach products are manufactured by independent manufacturers, we maintain control of the raw materials that are used in all of our products. Compliance with quality control standards is monitored through on-site quality inspections at all independent manufacturing facilities.

Coach carefully balances its commitments to a limited number of “better brand” partners with demonstrated integrity, quality and reliable delivery. Our manufacturers are located in many countries, including China, Vietnam, India, Philippines, Thailand, Italy and the United States. Coach continues to evaluate new manufacturing sources and geographies to deliver the finest quality products at the lowest cost and help limit the impact of manufacturing in inflationary markets. During fiscal 2013, one vendor provided approximately 12% of Coach’s total units. No other individual vendor currently provides more than
approximately 10% of Coach’s total units. Before partnering with a vendor, Coach evaluates each facility by conducting a quality and business practice standards audit. Periodic evaluations of existing, previously approved facilities are conducted on a random basis. We believe that all of our manufacturing partners are in material compliance with Coach’s integrity standards.

DISTRIBUTION

Coach operates an 850,000 square foot distribution and consumer service facility in Jacksonville, Florida. This automated facility uses a bar code scanning warehouse management system. Coach's distribution center employees use handheld radio frequency scanners to read product bar codes, which allow them to more accurately process and pack orders, track shipments, manage inventory and generally provide excellent service to our customers. Coach's products are primarily shipped to Coach retail stores and wholesale customers via express delivery providers and common carriers, and direct to consumers via express delivery providers.

To support our growth in China and the region, in fiscal 2010 we established an Asia distribution center in Shanghai, owned and operated by a third-party, allowing us to better manage the logistics in this region while reducing costs. The Company also operates distribution centers, through third-parties, in Japan, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia, Korea and the Netherlands.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

The foundation of Coach's information systems is its Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. This fully integrated system supports all aspects of finance and accounting, procurement, inventory control, sales and store replenishment. The system functions as a central repository for all of Coach's transactional information, resulting in increased efficiencies, improved inventory control and a better understanding of consumer demand.









Complementing its ERP system are several other system solutions, each of which Coach believes is suitable for its needs. The data warehouse system summarizes the transaction information and provides a global platform for management reporting. The supply chain management systems support sales, procurement, inventory planning and reporting functions. In North America, product fulfillment is facilitated by Coach's highly automated warehouse management system and electronic data interchange system, while the unique requirements of Coach's internet business are supported by Coach’s order management system. Internationally,
Coach is integrated with selected third-party providers to provide similar capabilities. Additionally, the point-of-sale system supports all in-store transactions, distributes management reporting to each store, and collects sales and payroll information on a daily basis. This daily collection of store sales and inventory information results in early identification of business trends and provides a detailed baseline for store inventory replenishment. Updates and upgrades of these systems are made on a periodic basis in order to ensure that we constantly improve our functionality.

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS

Coach owns all of the material worldwide trademark rights used in connection with the production, marketing and distribution of all of its products. Coach also owns and maintains worldwide registrations for trademarks in all relevant classes of products in each of the countries in which Coach products are sold. Major trademarks includeCoach, Coach and lozenge design, Coach and tag design, Signature C design, Coach Op Art design and The Heritage Logo (Coach Leatherware Est. 1941). Coach is not dependent on any one particular trademark or design patent although Coach believes that the Coach name is important for its
business. In addition, several of Coach's products are covered by design patents or patent applications. Coach aggressively polices its trademarks and trade dress, and pursues infringers both domestically and internationally. It also pursues counterfeiters domestically and internationally through leads generated internally, as well as through its network of investigators, the Coach hotline and business partners around the world.

Coach expects that its material trademarks will remain in existence for as long as Coach continues to use and renew them. Coach has no material patents.

SEASONALITY

Because Coach products are frequently given as gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of November and December. In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. Over the last several years, we have achieved higher levels of growth in the non-holiday quarters, which has reduced these seasonal fluctuations.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Most of Coach's imported products are subject to, duties, indirect taxes, quotas and non-tariff trade barriers that may limit the quantity of products that Coach may import into the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such products. Coach is not materially restricted by quotas or other government restrictions in the operation of its business, however customs duties do represent a material part of total product cost. To maximize opportunities, Coach operates complex supply chains through foreign trade zones, bonded logistic parks and other strategic initiatives such as free trade agreements. Additionally, the
Company operates a direct import business in many countries worldwide. As a result, Coach is subject to stringent government regulations and restrictions with respect to its cross-border activity either by the various customs and border protection agencies or by other government agencies which control the quality and safety of the Company’s products. Coach maintains an internal global trade and customs organization to help manage its import/export activity.

COMPETITION

The premium handbag and accessories industry is highly competitive. The Company competes primarily with European and American luxury and accessible luxury brands as well as private label retailers, including some of Coach’s wholesale customers. Over the last several years the category has grown, encouraging the entry of new competitors as well as increasing the competition from existing competitors. This increased competition also drives consumer interest in this brand loyal category.









The Company further believes that there are several factors that differentiate us from our competitors, including but not limited to: Coach’s strong and differentiated brand, distinctive newness, innovative and high quality products, ability to meet consumer’s changing preferences and our superior customer service.

EMPLOYEES

As of June 29, 2013, Coach employed approximately 17,200 people, including both full and part time employees, but excluding seasonal and temporary employees. Of these employees, approximately 7,200 and 7,000 were full time and part time employees, respectively, in the retail field in North America; Japan; Hong Kong, Macau, and mainland China; Singapore; Taiwan; Malaysia and Korea. Approximately 70 of Coach’s employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Coach believes that its relations with its employees are good, and has never encountered a strike or work stoppage.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

See the Segment Information note presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for geographic information.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on our investor website, located atwww.coach.com/investorsunder the caption “SEC Filings”, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are also available on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website atwww.sec.gov.No information contained on any of our
websites is intended to be included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The Company has included the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer certifications regarding its public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibit 31.1 to this report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the Company filed with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the CEO’s certification regarding the Company’s compliance with the NYSE’s Corporate Governance Listing Standards (“Listing Standards”) pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards, which indicated that the CEO was not aware of any violations of the Listing
Standards by the Company.









