ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Founded in 1941, Coach was acquired by Sara Lee Corporation (“Sara Lee”) in 1985. In June 2000, Coach was incorporated in the state of Maryland. In October 2000, Coach was listed on the New York Stock Exchange and sold approximately 68 million shares of common stock, split adjusted, representing 19.5% of the outstanding shares. In April 2001, Sara Lee completed a distribution of its remaining ownership in Coach via an exchange offer, which allowed Sara Lee stockholders to tender Sara Lee common stock for Coach common stock.

In June 2001, Coach Japan was formed to expand our presence in the Japanese market and to exercise greater control over our brand in that country. Coach Japan was initially formed as a joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation. On July 1, 2005, we purchased Sumitomo’s 50% interest in Coach Japan, resulting in Coach Japan becoming a 100% owned subsidiary of Coach, Inc.

In fiscal 2009, the Company acquired the Coach domestic retail businesses in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China (“Coach China”) from its former distributor, the ImagineX group. These acquisitions provide the Company with greater control over the brand in China, enabling Coach to raise brand awareness and aggressively grow market share with the Chinese consumer.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

See the Segment information note presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Coach has grown from a family-run workshop in a Manhattan loft to a leading American marketer of fine accessories and gifts for women and men. Coach is one of the most recognized fine accessories brands in the U.S. and in targeted international markets. We offer premium lifestyle accessories to a loyal and growing customer base and provide consumers with fresh, relevant and innovative products that are extremely well made, at an attractive price. Coach’s modern, fashionable handbags and accessories use a broad range of high quality leathers, fabrics and materials. In response to our customer’s demands for both fashion and function, Coach
offers updated styles and multiple product categories which address an increasing share of our customer’s accessory wardrobe. Coach has created a sophisticated, modern and inviting environment to showcase our product assortment and reinforce a consistent brand position wherever the consumer may shop. We utilize a flexible, cost-effective global sourcing model, in which independent manufacturers supply our products, allowing us to bring our broad range of products to market rapidly and efficiently.

Coach offers a number of key differentiating elements that set it apart from the competition, including:

A Distinctive Brand —Coach offers distinctive, easily recognizable, accessible luxury products that are relevant, extremely well made and provide excellent value.

A Market Leadership Position With Growing Share —Coach is America’s leading premium handbag and accessories brand and each year, as our market share increases, our leadership position strengthens. In Japan, Coach is the leading imported luxury handbag and accessories brand by units sold.

Coach’s Loyal And Involved Consumer —Coach consumers have a specific emotional connection with the brand. Part of the Company’s everyday mission is to cultivate consumer relationships by strengthening this emotional connection.









Multi-Channel International Distribution —This allows Coach to maintain a critical balance as results do not depend solely on the performance of a single channel or geographic area. The Direct-to-Consumer channel provides us with immediate, controlled access to consumers through Coach-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China and the Internet. The Indirect channel provides us with access to consumers via wholesale department store and specialty store locations in over 20 countries.

Coach Is Innovative And Consumer-Centric —Coach listens to its consumer through rigorous consumer research and strong consumer orientation. Coach works to anticipate the consumer’s changing needs by keeping the product assortment fresh and relevant.

We believe that these differentiating elements have enabled the Company to offer a unique proposition to the marketplace. We hold the number one position within the U.S. premium handbag and accessories market and the number two position within the Japanese imported luxury handbag and accessories market.

PRODUCTS

Coach’s product offerings include handbags, women’s and men’s accessories, footwear, business cases, jewelry, wearables, sunwear, travel bags, fragrance and watches. The following table shows the percent of net sales that each product category represented:



Fiscal Year EndedJuly 3,2010June 27,2009June 28,2008Handbags63%62%62%Accessories282929All other products999Total100%100%100%

Handbags— Handbag collections feature classically inspired designs as well as fashion designs. Typically, there are three to four collections per quarter and four to seven styles per collection. These collections are designed to meet the fashion and functional requirements of our broad and diverse consumer base. In fiscal 2010, we introduced Poppy which offers a variety of fresh silhouettes with a youthful appeal, vibrant colors and accessible price points, targeting both new and existing customers. We also introduced additional lifestyle collections, of which the Kristin collection was the most notable.

Accessories —Accessories include women’s and men’s small leather goods, novelty accessories and women’s and men’s belts. Women’s small leather goods, which coordinate with our handbags, include money pieces, wristlets, and cosmetic cases. Men’s small leather goods consist primarily of wallets and card cases. Novelty accessories include time management and electronic accessories. Key rings and charms are also included in this category.

Footwear —Jimlar Corporation (“Jimlar”) has been Coach’s footwear licensee since 1999. Footwear is distributed through select Coach retail stores, coach.com and over 950 U.S. department stores. Footwear sales are comprised primarily of women’s styles, which coordinate with Coach’s handbag collections.

Business Cases —This assortment is primarily men’s and includes computer bags, messenger-style bags and totes.

Jewelry —This category is comprised of bangle bracelets, necklaces, rings and earrings offered in both sterling silver and non-precious metals.

Wearables —This category is comprised of jackets, sweaters, gloves, hats and scarves, including both cold weather and fashion. The assortment is primarily women’s and contains a fashion assortment in all components of this category.

Sunwear —Marchon Eyewear, Inc. (“Marchon”) has been Coach’s eyewear licensee since 2003. This collection is a collaborative effort from Marchon and Coach that combines the Coach aesthetic for fashion accessories with the latest fashion directions in sunglasses. Coach sunglasses are sold in Coach retail stores and coach.com, department stores, select sunglass retailers and optical retailers in major markets.









Travel Bags —The travel collections are comprised of luggage and related accessories, such as travel kits and valet trays.

Fragrance —Starting in the spring of 2010, Estée Lauder Companies Inc. (“Estée Lauder”), through its subsidiary, Aramis Inc., became Coach’s fragrance licensee. Fragrance is distributed through Coach retail stores, coach.com and over 1,500 U.S. department stores. Coach offers three women’s fragrance collections and one men’s fragrance. The women’s fragrance collections include eau de perfume spray, eau de toilette spray, purse spray, body lotion and body splashes.

Watches —Movado Group, Inc. (“Movado”) has been Coach’s watch licensee since 1998 and has developed a distinctive collection of watches inspired primarily by the women’s collections with select men’s styles.

DESIGN AND MERCHANDISING

Coach’s New York-based design team, led by its Executive Creative Director, is responsible for conceptualizing and directing the design of all Coach products. Designers have access to Coach’s extensive archives of product designs created over the past nearly 70 years, which are a valuable resource for new product concepts. Coach designers are also supported by a strong merchandising team that analyzes sales, market trends and consumer preferences to identify business opportunities that help guide each season’s design process. Merchandisers also analyze products and edit, add and delete to achieve profitable sales across all channels.
The product category teams, each comprised of design, merchandising/product development and sourcing specialists, help Coach execute design concepts that are consistent with the brand’s strategic direction.

Coach’s design and merchandising teams work in close collaboration with all of our licensing partners to ensure that the licensed products (watches, footwear, eyewear and fragrance) are conceptualized and designed to address the intended market opportunity and convey the distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with the Coach brand.

During fiscal 2008, the Company announced a new business initiative to drive brand creativity. This initiative has evolved into a brand of its own, Reed Krakoff, and is supported by a team of experienced designers and merchandisers and will encompass all women’s categories, with a focus on ready-to-wear, handbags, accessories, footwear and jewelry. Reed Krakoff, as a standalone brand separate from the Coach brand, will target the New American luxury market. We introduced the Reed Krakoff brand with store openings in North America and Japan in early fiscal 2011.

SEGMENTS

Coach operates in two reportable segments: Direct-to-Consumer and Indirect. The reportable segments represent channels of distribution that offer similar products, service and marketing strategies.

Direct-to-Consumer Segment

The Direct-to-Consumer segment consists of channels that provide us with immediate, controlled access to consumers: Coach-operated stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China, the Internet and the Coach catalog. This segment represented approximately 87% of Coach’s total net sales in fiscal 2010, with North American stores and the Internet, Coach Japan and Coach China contributing approximately 64%, 20% and 3% of total net sales, respectively.

North American Retail Stores —Coach stores are located in regional shopping centers and metropolitan areas throughout the U.S. and Canada. The retail stores carry an assortment of products depending on their size and location. Our flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in high-visibility locations such as New York, Chicago, San Francisco and Toronto.

Our stores are sophisticated, sleek, modern and inviting. They showcase the world of Coach and enhance the shopping experience while reinforcing the image of the Coach brand. The modern store design creates a distinctive environment to display our products. Store associates are trained to maintain high standards of visual presentation, merchandising and customer service. The result is a complete statement of the Coach modern American style at the retail level.









The following table shows the number of Coach retail stores and their total and average square footage:



Fiscal Year EndedJuly 3,2010June 27,2009June 28,2008Retail stores342330297Net increase vs. prior year123338Percentage increase vs. prior year3.6%11.1%14.7%Retail square footage929,580893,037795,226Net increase vs. prior year36,54397,811122,489Percentage increase vs. prior year4.1%12.3%18.2%Average square footage2,7182,7062,678

North American Factory Stores —Coach’s factory stores serve as an efficient means to sell manufactured-for-factory-store product, including factory exclusives, as well as discontinued and irregular inventory outside the retail channel. These stores operate under the Coach Factory name and are geographically positioned primarily in established outlet centers that are generally more than 40 miles from major markets.

Coach’s factory store design, visual presentations and customer service levels support and reinforce the brand’s image. Through these factory stores, Coach targets value-oriented customers who would not otherwise buy the Coach brand. Prices are generally discounted from 10% to 50% below full retail prices.

The following table shows the number of Coach factory stores and their total and average square footage:



Fiscal Year EndedJuly 3,2010June 27,2009June 28,2008Factory stores121111102Net increase vs. prior year1099Percentage increase vs. prior year9.0%8.8%9.7%Factory square footage548,797477,724413,389Net increase vs. prior year71,07364,33592,017Percentage increase vs. prior year14.9%15.6%28.6%Average square footage4,5364,3044,053

Internet —Coach views its website as a key communications vehicle for the brand to promote traffic in Coach retail stores and department store locations and build brand awareness. During fiscal 2009, we relaunched the coach.com website, to enhance the e-commerce shopping experience while reinforcing the image of the Coach brand. With approximately 59 million unique visits to the website in fiscal 2010, our online store provides a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a selected offering of the latest styles and colors.

Coach Japan —Coach Japan operates department store shop-in-shop locations and freestanding flagship, retail and factory stores as well as an e-commerce website. Flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in select shopping districts throughout Japan.









The following table shows the number of Coach Japan locations and their total and average square footage:



Fiscal Year EndedJuly 3,2010June 27,2009June 28,2008Coach Japan locations161155149Net increase vs. prior year6612Percentage increase vs. prior year3.9%4.0%8.8%Coach Japan square footage293,441280,428259,993Net increase vs. prior year13,01320,43530,131Percentage increase vs. prior year4.6%7.9%13.1%Average square footage1,8231,8091,745

Coach China —Coach China operates department store shop-in-shop locations as well as freestanding flagship, retail and factory stores. Flagship stores, which offer the broadest assortment of Coach products, are located in select shopping districts throughout Hong Kong and mainland China.

The following table shows the number of Coach China locations and their total and average square footage:



Fiscal Year EndedJuly 3,2010June 27,2009June 28,2008(1)Coach China locations412824Net increase vs. prior year1348Percentage increase vs. prior year46.4%16.7%50.0%Coach China square footage78,88752,67144,504Net increase vs. prior year26,2168,16718,963Percentage increase vs. prior year49.8%18.4%74.2%Average square footage1,9241,8811,854



(1)During fiscal 2008, these stores were operated by the ImagineX group.

Indirect Segment

Coach began as a U.S. wholesaler to department stores and this segment remains important to our overall consumer reach. Today, we work closely with our partners, both domestic and international, to ensure a clear and consistent product presentation. The Indirect segment represented approximately 13% of total net sales in fiscal 2010, with U.S. Wholesale and Coach International representing approximately 7% and 5% of total net sales, respectively. The Indirect segment also includes royalties earned on licensed product.

U.S. Wholesale —This channel offers access to Coach products to consumers who prefer shopping at department stores. Coach products are also available on macys.com, dillards.com and nordstrom.com. While overall U.S. department store sales have not increased over the last few years, the handbag and accessories category has remained strong, in large part due to the strength of the Coach brand. The Company continues to manage inventories in this channel given the highly promotional environment at point-of-sale.

Coach recognizes the continued importance of U.S. department stores as a distribution channel for premier accessories. We continue to fine-tune our strategy to increase productivity and drive volume in existing locations by enhancing presentation, primarily through the creation of more shop-in-shops with proprietary Coach fixtures. Coach custom tailors its assortments through wholesale product planning and allocation processes to better match the attributes of our department store consumers in each local market.

Coach’s products are sold in approximately 940 wholesale locations in the U.S. and Canada. Our most significant U.S. wholesale customers are Macy’s (including Bloomingdale’s), Dillard’s, Nordstrom, Lord and Taylor, Von Maur and Saks.









Coach International —This channel represents sales to international wholesale distributors and authorized retailers. Travel retail represents the largest portion of our customers’ sales in this channel. However, we continue to drive growth by expanding our distribution to reach local consumers in emerging markets. Coach has developed relationships with a select group of distributors who sell Coach products through department stores and freestanding retail locations in over 20 countries. Coach’s current network of international distributors serves the following markets: South Korea, Taiwan, US & Territories,
Mexico, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Japan, Malaysia, Thailand, UAE, Australia, Greece, Hong Kong, France, Indonesia, Russia, Bahamas, Bahrain, China, India, Macau, New Zealand and Vietnam.

For locations not in freestanding stores, Coach has created shop-in-shops and other image enhancing environments to increase brand appeal and stimulate growth. Coach continues to improve productivity in this channel by opening larger image-enhancing locations, expanding existing stores and closing smaller, less productive stores. Coach’s most significant international wholesale customers are the DFS Group, Lotte Group, Shinsegae International, Shilla Group and Tasa Meng Corp.

In mid-July 2010, Coach entered into an agreement with a key distributor to take control of our domestic retail businesses in Singapore and Malaysia. Coach currently expects to begin directly operating these markets in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, respectively.

Additionally, subsequent to July 3, 2010, the Company finalized an agreement with an international partner to form a joint venture to expand the Coach International business in Europe. The Company currently anticipates retail sales through the joint venture to customers in Spain, Portugal, and the United Kingdom (including Great Britain and Ireland), with the first sales beginning in early fiscal 2011.

The following table shows the number of international wholesale locations at which Coach products are sold:



Fiscal Year EndedJuly 3,2010June 27,2009June 28,2008(1)International freestanding stores534437International department store locations938183Other international locations363423Total international wholesale locations182159143



(1)Excludes 24 stores in fiscal 2008 that were part of the retail businesses operated by the ImagineX group in Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China.

Licensing —In our licensing relationships, Coach takes an active role in the design process and controls the marketing and distribution of products under the Coach brand. The current licensing relationships as of July 3, 2010 are as follows:



CategoryLicensingPartnerIntroductionDateTerritoryLicenseExpirationDateWatchesMovadoSpring ‘98Worldwide2015FootwearJimlarSpring ‘99U.S.2014EyewearMarchonFall ‘03Worldwide2011FragranceEstee LauderSpring ‘10Worldwide2015

Products made under license are, in most cases, sold through all of the channels discussed above and, with Coach’s approval, these licensees have the right to distribute Coach brand products selectively through several other channels: shoes in department store shoe salons, watches in selected jewelry stores and eyewear in selected optical retailers. These venues provide additional, yet controlled, exposure of the Coach brand. Coach’s licensing partners pay royalties to Coach on their net sales of Coach branded products. However,









such royalties are not material to the Coach business as they currently comprise less than 1% of Coach’s total revenues. The licensing agreements generally give Coach the right to terminate the license if specified sales targets are not achieved.

MARKETING

Coach’s marketing strategy is to deliver a consistent message each time the consumer comes in contact with the Coach brand through our communications and visual merchandising. The Coach image is created internally and executed by the creative marketing, visual merchandising and public relations teams. Coach also has a sophisticated consumer and market research capability, which helps us assess consumer attitudes and trends and gauge the likelihood of a product’s success in the marketplace prior to its introduction.

In conjunction with promoting a consistent global image, Coach uses its extensive customer database and consumer knowledge to target specific products and communications to specific consumers to efficiently stimulate sales across all distribution channels.

Coach engages in several consumer communication initiatives, including direct marketing activities and national, regional and local advertising. In fiscal 2010, consumer contacts increased 139% to over 392 million primarily driven by increased email communications. However, the Company continues to leverage marketing expenses by refining our marketing programs to increase productivity and optimize distribution. Total expenses related to consumer communications in fiscal 2010 were $61 million, representing less than 2% of net sales.

Coach’s wide range of direct marketing activities includes email contacts, catalogs and brochures targeted to promote sales to consumers in their preferred shopping venue. In addition to building brand awareness, the coach.com website and the Coach catalog serve as effective brand communications vehicles by providing a showcase environment where consumers can browse through a strategic offering of the latest styles and colors, which drive store traffic.

As part of Coach’s direct marketing strategy, the Company uses its database consisting of approximately 16 million active households in North America and 3.8 million active households in Japan. Email contacts and catalogs are Coach’s principal means of communication and are sent to selected households to stimulate consumer purchases and build brand awareness. During fiscal 2010, the Company sent approximately 286 million emails to strategically selected customers as we continue to evolve our internet outreach to maximize productivity while streamlining distribution. In fiscal 2010, the Company distributed approximately 3 million catalogs in
Coach stores in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and mainland China. The growing number of visitors to the coach.com websites in the U.S., Canada and Japan provides an opportunity to increase the size of these databases.

During fiscal 2010, Coach launched informational websites in China, South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, France, the United Kingdom, Spain, Mexico and Australia. In addition, the Company utilizes and continues to explore new technologies such as blogs and social networking websites, including Twitter and Facebook, as a cost effective consumer communication opportunity to increase on-line and store sales and build brand awareness.

The Company also runs national, regional and local advertising campaigns in support of its major selling seasons.

MANUFACTURING

While all of our products are manufactured by independent manufacturers, we nevertheless maintain control of the supply chain process from design through manufacture. We are able to do this by qualifying raw material suppliers and by maintaining sourcing and product development offices in Hong Kong, China, South Korea, India and Vietnam that work closely with our independent manufacturers. This broad-based, global manufacturing strategy is designed to optimize the mix of cost, lead times and construction capabilities. Over the last several years, we have increased the presence of our senior management at our manufacturers’ facilities to enhance
control over decision making and ensure the speed with which we bring new product to market is maximized.









These independent manufacturers support a broad mix of product types, materials and a seasonal influx of new, fashion oriented styles, which allows us to meet shifts in marketplace demand and changes in consumer preferences. During fiscal 2010, approximately 74% of Coach’s total net sales were generated from products introduced within the fiscal year. As the collections are seasonal and planned to be sold in stores for short durations, our production quantities are limited which lowers our exposure to excess and obsolete inventory.

All product sources, including independent manufacturers and licensing partners, must achieve and maintain Coach’s high quality standards, which are an integral part of the Coach identity. One of Coach’s keys to success lies in the rigorous selection of raw materials. Coach has longstanding relationships with purveyors of fine leathers and hardware. Although Coach products are manufactured by independent manufacturers, we maintain control of the raw materials that are used in all of our products. Compliance with quality control standards is monitored through on-site quality inspections at all independent manufacturing facilities.

Coach carefully balances its commitments to a limited number of “better brand” partners with demonstrated integrity, quality and reliable delivery. Our manufacturers are located in many countries, including China, United States, Italy, Hong Kong, India, Thailand, Vietnam, Peru, Philippines, Turkey, Ecuador, Great Britain, Macau and Malaysia. Coach continues to evaluate new manufacturing sources and geographies to deliver the finest quality products at the lowest cost and help limit the impact of manufacturing in inflationary markets. No one vendor currently provides more than approximately 10% of Coach’s total units. Before partnering
with a vendor, Coach evaluates each facility by conducting a quality and business practice standards audit. Periodic evaluations of existing, previously approved facilities are conducted on a random basis. We believe that all of our manufacturing partners are in material compliance with Coach’s integrity standards.

DISTRIBUTION

Coach operates an 850,000 square foot distribution and consumer service facility in Jacksonville, Florida. This automated facility uses a bar code scanning warehouse management system. Coach’s distribution center employees use handheld radio frequency scanners to read product bar codes, which allow them to more accurately process and pack orders, track shipments, manage inventory and generally provide excellent service to our customers. Coach’s products are primarily shipped to Coach retail stores and wholesale customers via express delivery providers and common carriers, and direct to consumers via express delivery providers.

To support our growth in China and the region, during the second half of fiscal 2010 we established an Asia distribution center in Shanghai, owned and operated by a third-party, allowing us to better manage the logistics in this region while reducing costs. The Company also operates a distribution center, through a third-party, in Japan.

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS

The foundation of Coach’s information systems is its Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. This fully integrated system supports all aspects of finance and accounting, procurement, inventory control, sales and store replenishment. The system functions as a central repository for all of Coach’s transactional information, resulting in increased efficiencies, improved inventory control and a better understanding of consumer demand. This system was upgraded in fiscal 2008 and continues to be fully scalable to accommodate growth.

Complementing its ERP system are several other system solutions, each of which Coach believes is well suited for its needs. The data warehouse system summarizes the transaction information and provides a single platform for all management reporting. The supply chain management system supports sales and inventory planning and reporting functions. Product fulfillment is facilitated by Coach’s highly automated warehouse management system and electronic data interchange system, while the unique requirements of Coach’s internet and catalog businesses are supported by Coach’s order management system. Finally, the point-of-sale system
supports all in-store transactions, distributes management reporting to each store, and collects sales and payroll information on a daily basis. This daily collection of store sales and inventory information results in early identification of business trends and provides a detailed baseline for store inventory replenishment. Updates and upgrades of these systems are made on a periodic basis in order to ensure that we constantly improve our functionality. All complementary systems are integrated with the central ERP system.









TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS

Coach owns all of the material trademark rights used in connection with the production, marketing and distribution of all of its products, both in the U.S. and in other countries in which the products are principally sold. Coach also owns and maintains worldwide registrations for trademarks in all relevant classes of products in each of the countries in which Coach products are sold. Major trademarks includeCoach, Coach and lozenge design, Coach and tag design, Signature C design, Coach Op Art design and The Heritage Logo (Coach Leatherware Est. 1941). Coach is not dependent on any one particular trademark or design patent although Coach
believes that the Coach name is important for its business. In addition, several of Coach’s products are covered by design patents or patent applications. Coach aggressively polices its trademarks and trade dress, and pursues infringers both domestically and internationally. It also pursues counterfeiters domestically and internationally through leads generated internally, as well as through its network of investigators, the Coach hotline and business partners around the world.

Coach expects that its material trademarks will remain in existence for as long as Coach continues to use and renew them. Coach has no material patents.

SEASONALITY

Because Coach products are frequently given as gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of November and December. In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. Over the last several years, we have achieved higher levels of growth in the non-holiday quarters, which has reduced these seasonal fluctuations.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Most of Coach’s imported products are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of products that Coach may import into the U.S. and other countries or may impact the cost of such products. Coach has not been restricted by quotas in the operation of its business and customs duties have not comprised a material portion of the total cost of its products. In addition, Coach is subject to foreign governmental regulation and trade restrictions, including retaliation against certain prohibited foreign practices, with respect to its product sourcing and international sales operations.

COMPETITION

The premium handbag and accessories industry is highly competitive. The Company mainly competes with European luxury brands as well as private label retailers, including some of Coach’s wholesale customers. Over the last several years the category has grown, encouraging the entry of new competitors as well as increasing the competition from existing competitors. The Company believes, however, that as a market leader we benefit from this increased competition as it drives consumer interest in this brand loyal category.

The Company further believes that there are several factors that differentiate us from our competitors, including but not limited to: distinctive newness, innovation and quality of our products, ability to meet consumer’s changing preferences and our superior customer service.

EMPLOYEES

As of July 3, 2010, Coach employed approximately 13,000 people, including both full and part time employees. Of these employees, approximately 4,400 and 6,600 were full time and part time employees, respectively, in the retail field in North America, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau, and mainland China. Approximately 60 of Coach’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Coach believes that its relations with its employees are good, and it has never encountered a strike or work stoppage.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

See the Segment Information note presented in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for geographic information.









AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on our website, located atwww.coach.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are also available on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website atwww.sec.gov. No information contained on any of our websites is intended to be included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The Company has included the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer certifications regarding its public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibit 31.1 to this report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the Company filed with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the CEO’s certification regarding the Company’s compliance with the NYSE’s Corporate Governance Listing Standards (“Listing Standards”) pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the Listing Standards, which indicated that the CEO was not aware of any violations of the Listing Standards by the Company.

