
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 2, 1994


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

   (Mark One)

   [X]   ANNUAL  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

   For the fiscal year ended January  2, 1994    Commission file number 1-5075

                                       OR

   [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

   For the transition period from _________ to _________

                                    EG&G, Inc.                    
             ---------------------------------------------------- 
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Massachusetts                                04-2052042     
     ------------------------------                    --------------- 
    (State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)                  Identification No.)

    45 William Street, Wellesley, Massachusetts              02181
    -------------------------------------------             --------
    (Address of Principal Executive Offices)              (Zip Code)

    Registrant's telephone number, including area code (617) 237-5100


















    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                    
    Title of Each Class              Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
    -------------------              -----------------------------------------

    Common Stock, $1 Par Value               New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
    --------------------------               -----------------------------
    Preferred Share Purchase Rights          New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
    -------------------------------          -----------------------------

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
    required to be filed by  section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities Exchange
    Act  of 1934 during the preceding 12  months (or for such shorter period
    that the  registrant was required  to file such  reports),  and  (2) has
    been  subject to such  filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]
    No [ ]
 
    Indicate  by check mark if  disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to
    Item 405  of Regulation  S-K is  not contained herein,  and will  not be
    contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements  incorporated by  reference in  Part III of  this
    Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

    The aggregate  market value of the  common stock, $1 par  value, held by
    non-affiliates   of   the   registrant   on  February   25,   1994,  was
    $1,004,884,329.

    As of February 25,  1994, there were outstanding, exclusive  of treasury
    shares, 55,823,147 shares of common stock, $1 par value.


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

  PORTIONS OF EG&G, INC.'S
  1994 PROXY STATEMENT .  . . . . . .  . . . PART III (Items 10, 11 and 12)

 
 

                                     PART I


   ITEM 1. BUSINESS
   ----------------

   General Business Description
   ----------------------------

         EG&G, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of
   Massachusetts in 1947.  EG&G, Inc. and its subsidiaries (hereafter
   referred to as "EG&G", the "Company", or the "Registrant") is a
   diversified company with annual sales of $2.7 billion.  

         The Company provides systems engineering and test site operating
   and management services to government agencies and laboratories.  It
   also designs and manufactures a variety of analytical and clinical
   instruments and mechanical and optoelectronic components for
   governmental and commercial customers.

         The Company's operations are classified into five industry
   segments:  Technical Services, Department of Energy ("DOE") Support,
   Instruments, Mechanical Components and Optoelectronics.


   Recent Developments
   -------------------

         In June 1993, the Company acquired the Wallac Group, a unit of
   Procordia AB, for approximately U.S. $46 million.  Wallac, headquartered
   in Finland, has 500 employees located in Scandinavia, Russia, the United
   Kingdom and North America.  It develops, manufactures and markets
   analytical and immunodiagnostic systems, instruments and reagents for
   clinical diagnostics, life-science research and environmental
   monitoring.

         Also in June 1993, the Company signed a 27 month joint research
   and development agreement with the Institute of Microelectronics
   National University of Singapore to develop a commercially viable
   micromachined accelerometer, an electronic sensor that triggers the
   deployment of vehicle airbags, for automotive and industrial use.  

         In October 1993, the Company was notified that it had been
   selected to continue as Base Operations Contractor at the Kennedy Space
   Center.  The cost-plus-award/incentive fee contract is for four years with
   two renewal option periods of three years each at the election of the
   government.  The proposed contract cost is approximately $1.7 billion
   over the life of the contract including renewals. 

         In October 1993, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of
   up to a total of 5.5 million shares of the Company's common stock by the
   Company which will be accomplished through periodic purchases on the
   open market.  
 
 

         In February 1994, the Company formed EG&G Environmental, Inc. to
   provide environmental services and systems management.


   Industry Segments
   -----------------

         In January 1994, the Company reorganized its operating
   organization and redefined its reporting segments. 

         A Mechanical Components segment was formed that includes all
   operations previously a part of the former Aerospace segment and all
   mechanical seal and blower operations previously a part of the former
   Components segment.  An Optoelectronics segment was also formed
   comprising all Optoelectronics divisions from the former Components
   segment, the Electronic Components Division and Power Systems both from
   the former Defense segment.  The composition of the Instruments and DOE
   Support segments remains essentially unchanged.  The Technical Services
   segment has been enlarged to include the service organizations of the
   former Defense segment.

         As a result of these changes, the Company's external reporting
   segments now correspond to its internal operating organization.


   Technical Services

         The Company provides a wide range of technical services including
   engineering, scientific, and technical support to a number of
   governmental organizations.  It also provides analysis and testing
   services to the automotive industry. 

         The Company has been the Base Operations Contractor for NASA's
   Kennedy Space Center in Florida since 1983. The Company manages the
   Center's facilities, tests astronaut rescue procedures and escape
   systems, provides security, fire protection and medical services,
   handles propellant commodities and manages the shuttle landing
   facility.  The current contract was awarded in October 1993 for a term
   of four years with two renewal options of three years each at the
   election of the government.

         The Company also supplies maintenance and support services to
   NASA's Langley Research Center in Virginia for the development of
   aircraft and spacecraft systems.

         The Company runs the U.S. Customs Service Support Seized Property
   Program, involving the management and disposal of all types of personal
   and real property.  It also provides perimeter and transit-system safety
   and security systems for U.S. government agencies. 

 

         The Company provides technical support services to the Army's Yuma
   Proving Grounds including testing of vehicles, artillery, aircraft  
   armaments and airborne missile systems as well as providing optical and
   radar systems support.  The Company operates and maintains the U.S. Air
   Force Radar Target Scatter facility, an electromagnetic laboratory for
   static radar cross-section measurements.  The Company also furnishes
   technical services for the operation and calibration of high-power
   lasers and operational field-testing and evaluation of weapons systems.

        Work for the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD") includes planning
   and analysis, training, engineering and other support services to the
   Navy in connection with next-generation combat systems for surface
   vessels and submarines; supporting major Navy submarine and surface ship
   programs with emphasis on improving the operational performance of
   electronic systems, developing new surveillance radars and sonar-based
   anti-submarine warfare systems; and developing systems used to evaluate
   the electronic warfare effectiveness of command, control, and
   communication systems in an electromagnetic environment.

         The Company is the management and operations contractor for the
   chemical weapons demilitarization program at the Army's Tooele Depot in
   Utah.  The Company's responsibilities include the construction and
   operation of a facility for the disposal of lethal chemical agents and
   munitions.
            
         Under a contract with the Army, the Company furnishes specialized
   operational and maintenance services for the Chemical Decontamination
   Training Facility at Fort McClellan, Alabama.  

         The Company conducts research on benign technologies for the
   extraction, conversion, and utilization of coal, oil, and gas for the
   DOE's Morgantown Energy Technology Center in West Virginia. The current
   contract covers work to be performed through September 1994.  

         The Company is managing the closedown of operations at the DOE's
   Superconducting Super Collider Laboratory project near Dallas, Texas.  

         The Company develops and conducts mobile and stationary vehicle
   durability testing and comprehensive vehicle component testing for the
   automotive industry.  It also tests fuels and lubricants for petroleum
   and chemical-additive industries to determine how these materials
   perform against industry and government standards.


   Department of Energy Support

         The Company provides site and environmental management, design,
   engineering and fabrication of equipment and other engineering and
   research services for the DOE.
 
 

         The work, which is performed under five prime contracts with the
   DOE, includes engineering services in support of nuclear weapons
   testing, radiation sensing, the operation of precision switching devices
   and precision machining, research on reactor safety and nuclear waste
   management. 

         Uncertainty continues to exist in the DOE Support segment due to
   changes in government budget and national priorities.  The Department of
   Energy's rules concerning contractor liability and performance
   evaluation currently apply to all five contracts.  These new performance
   evaluation criteria create greater variability in the incentive awards
   earned.  The contractor liability rules provide for increased contractor
   accountability for costs associated with events determined to have been 
   avoidable.  This liability is generally limited to the fee earned in the
   grading period in which the avoidable event occurs.  In addition, the
   Department of Energy has announced its intention to proceed with a
   contract reform initiative.  

         Under the Rocky Flats contract, the Company is the management and
   operations contractor for the Rocky Flats facility near Golden,
   Colorado.  The Company provides the management, operation, and
   maintenance of government facilities capable of producing nuclear
   weapons components.  The Company also provides all support services at
   the site.  In addition, the Company manages DOE programs related to
   environmental restoration, waste management, and technology development. 
   The current contract expires at the end of December 1995.

         Under the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory ("INEL") contract,
   the Company is the management and operations contractor for certain
   government-owned facilities at INEL.  The Company is responsible for
   equipment and systems development in the fields of reactor physics,
   reactor safety technology, heat transfer, materials and nuclear waste
   management; and safety research on magnetic fusion, energy conservation,
   and geothermal and other non-nuclear energy sources.  It conducts
   research, development, and testing for reactor safety programs and
   provides support for the entire site.  The current contract expires in
   October 1994.  The Company has submitted a proposal in partnership with
   BNFL, Inc., a subsidiary of British Nuclear Fuels, plc, and Fluor
   Daniels Environmental Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Fluor Daniel,
   Inc., for increased work scope at the facility.  A decision on the
   awarding of the contract is expected in mid-1994. 

         Under the Energy Measurements contract, the Company provides
   scientific and engineering services for the DOE's underground nuclear
   weapons test program at the Nevada Test Site.  Much of this work is done
   in cooperation with the Sandia, Los Alamos, and Lawrence Livermore
   national research laboratories.  The primary work requires the
   measurement of energy from underground nuclear detonations.  Besides
   this mission, the Company works on many of DOE's non-weapons programs. 
   It conducts aerial radiation and environmental surveys nationwide and
   maintains a staff of experts to provide assistance in the event of a
   nuclear emergency anywhere in the world.  The current contract expires
   at the end of December 1995. 

 

         Under the Reynolds Electrical and Engineering Co. contract, the
   Company provides specialized support and maintenance services also
   relating to the DOE's underground nuclear weapons test program at the
   Nevada Test Site.  This work includes construction services at the
   Tonopah Test Range and surface testing and drilling at the Yucca
   Mountain Project.  The current contract expires at the end of 
   December, 1995.  

         The United States has implemented a moratorium on nuclear weapons
   testing scheduled to last through September 1995 and the
   Administration has proposed a permanent ban on nuclear weapons testing. 
   The DOE is maintaining a capability to resume weapons testing if a
   decision to do so should be made.  However, during the moratorium, all 
   test-related activities have been stopped or reduced significantly. 
   Other activities at the Nevada Test Site, such as environmental
   monitoring and remediation, have increased, but have not offset the
   reduction in the testing programs.

         Under the Mound Applied Technologies contract, the Company is the
   management and operations contractor for the Mound facility in
   Miamisburg, Ohio.  The Mound facility is in the midst of a transition
   from defense programs to environmental restoration and economic
   development activities.  The Company's responsibilities include
   research, development, and production of high-technology mechanical
   explosives and electrical components for nuclear weapons.  The current
   contract expires at the end of September 1996.


   Instruments

         The Company offers instruments and systems for applications in
   medical and clinical diagnostics; biochemical, medical and life science
   research; environmental monitoring; industrial and pharmaceutical
   process measurement; gas and oil field applications; airport and
   industrial security; and marine and oceanographic studies.

         Many of the Company's instruments are based on the Company's
   expertise in nuclear measurements, including detection, characterization
   and measurement of radiation. For example, the Company offers alpha,
   beta and gamma counting systems that are used in clinical laboratories,
   research laboratories, and for environmental analysis.  A complete line
   of radiation protection measuring systems equipped with built-in large-
   area proportional detectors are sold to laboratories, nuclear and
   environmental monitoring facilities. 

         For research and environmental applications, the Company offers
   radiation detectors and associated electronic processing equipment
   ranging from discrete modular instruments to complete systems. Many of
   these instruments are based on the Company's hyperpure germanium crystal
   and silicon-based detector technologies.  Examples of such products are
   germanium detectors, charged particle detectors, multichannel analyzers,
   and electronic instrumentation modules.  These products are used by
   university, industrial, and government laboratories to study various
   nuclear phenomena. 

 

         Employing its radioisotopic measurement technology, the Company
   offers industrial on-line level and density measuring instruments for
   process control of liquids, slurries, or solids in containers, tanks,
   and pipes.

         Instruments based on the Company's expertise in detecting and
   characterizing electromagnetic radiation, including infrared, visible,
   and ultraviolet light, and  microwave, x-rays, and gamma rays, include
   optical analyzers and Raman spectrometers that are used extensively in
   materials research and development.  Extensions of these product lines
   are used to characterize the performance of fiber optics and for the
   non-destructive analysis of materials and surfaces.  The Company offers
   clinical laboratory instruments based on the luminescence of biological
   chemicals and immunoassay products that use the Company's proprietary
   time-resolved fluorescence technology.  The Company also offers x-ray
   security inspection systems and walk-through metal detectors for
   industry, airline, and commercial use, and microwave-based moisture
   detection systems used in process control and in-line analysis of bulk
   materials.  The Company has recently developed food inspection systems
   which combine imaging technology developed for its optical analyzers
   with the x-ray technology employed by the Company in its security
   systems business.

         The Company's high-performance electrochemistry instruments, the
   majority of which are computer controlled, are used by research
   laboratories, universities and industrial and pharmaceutical companies
   to detect, analyze, and characterize corrosion, trace materials and
   neurological biochemicals. 

         The Company offers small high-precision turbine flow meters and
   primary standard flow calibrators that are used in aerospace, industrial
   and pharmaceutical applications. 

         For marine and oceanographic applications, the Company offers
   side-scan sonar equipment, marine seismic instruments,  and acoustic
   equipment for recovery of ocean-floor moorings and instruments, and it
   provides instruments for use in the oil and gas industry including high-
   temperature, high-pressure test chambers that predict performance of
   cement slurries during drilling and completion of oil and gas wells,
   viscometers for analyzing drilling muds, pressure calibration standards,
   and chromatographs and gravitometers for the analysis of natural gas.


   Mechanical Components 

         The Company offers high reliability advanced seals and bellows
   products, fans and blowers, precision components for aerospace
   applications and heat management devices.

         The Company produces bellows used in mechanical sealing components
   and systems for the containment and control of fluids.  These products
   are used by the oil, petrochemical, chemical, food processing, pulp and
   paper, waste water treatment and refrigeration industries. 

 


         The Company's mechanical face-type bellows seals, engineered
   sealing products, and bellows devices  are utilized in jet aircraft,
   surface ships, submarines, torpedoes, weapons, medical equipment,
   computer equipment and power generation equipment.

         The Company manufactures solenoid and pressure operated valves for
   aerospace and other applications primarily to control turbines, rocket
   engines and aircraft and space systems. 

         The Company manufactures high-reliability cooling fans and blowers
   for electronics and electrical equipment and transportation systems, and
   blowers and blower systems that produce both vacuum and pressure using
   regeneration and multistage technology for industrial applications.  
   The Company's BiocubeTM Aerobic Biofilter treats volatile organic
   compounds and odorous emissions with naturally occurring microbes.  

         The Company manufactures aircraft engine exhaust and pneumatic
   ducting assemblies and rocket engine components that utilize bulge
   forming, drop hammer forming and fusion welding technologies.

         The Company's metal printed circuit board retainers and extractors
   are used in electronic enclosures for military, commercial aircraft,
   telecommunications and computer applications. 


   Optoelectronics 

         The Company offers a broad variety of components that emit and
   detect light in the spectrum from ultraviolet through visible to the far
   infrared.  These components are used in many applications ranging from
   simple light sensors used in automotive and commercial electronics to
   sophisticated space-qualified detectors that are used for communications
   and remote sensing of the earth and planetary exploration.

         Examples of commercial and consumer applications of the Company's
   optical sensors include medical instruments, smoke detectors, cameras,
   bar-code scanners and automatic headlight dimmers.  The Company's high
   performance image sensors have applications in aerospace, astronomy,
   spectroscopy and medical and industrial imaging.

         The Company also offers a wide variety of flashlamps for use in
   photocopy and reprographic equipment, phototypesetting systems, beacons
   and in laser systems and accessories.  TV camera tubes, the main
   component in x-ray diagnostic equipment, are supplied to manufacturers
   of medical imaging instruments.  Pyroelectric infrared and thermopile
   sensors are used in security systems, temperature monitoring and, in
   combination with photo resistors, for automatic light switches.

         The Company offers hermetically-sealed ceramic-to-metal switching
   devices used for pulsed radar and gas and liquid lasers.  Spark gaps are
   offered for use in lithotripters which alleviate kidney stones non-
   invasively and in high-performance lasers such as those used in  laser
   range finders.  Similar and related products are used by the military
   for missile and rocket firing and control.  The Company also offers
 
 

   rubidium atomic frequency standards for both military and commercial
   navigation and communication systems and high-reliability and high-
   frequency power supplies that provide precise power conditioning in
   electronic equipment used by the military and in commercial aircraft and
   air traffic control systems.


   Marketing
   ---------

         The services and products of the Company are marketed through its
   own specialized sales forces as well as independent foreign and domestic
   manufacturers' representatives and distributors.  In certain foreign
   countries, the Company has entered into joint venture and license
   agreements with local firms to manufacture and market its products.


   Raw Materials and Supplies
   --------------------------

         Raw materials and supplies are generally readily available in
   adequate quantities from domestic and foreign sources.


   Patents and Trademarks
   ----------------------

         While the Company's patents, trademarks, and licenses are 
   cumulatively important to its business, the Company does not believe
   that the loss of any one or group of related patents, trademarks, or
   licenses would have a materially adverse effect on the overall business
   of the Company or on any of its business segments.


   Backlog
   -------

         The approximate dollar value of all unfilled orders by industry
   segment as of January 2, 1994, and January 3, l993, is set forth in 
   the table below.

    
 

        At January 2, 1994, 85% of the total backlog represented orders
   received from U.S. Government agencies, primarily DOE.  The DOE Support
   backlog represents the annual funding for these contracts that has
   actually been appropriated.  The order backlog for each segment relates
   differently to future sales based on different business characteristics,
   primarily order and delivery lead times and customer demand requirements.  
   The Company estimates that approximately 96% of its current backlog will
   be billed during l994.


   Government Contracts 
   --------------------

        The Company's five major contracts are awarded on a
   cost-plus-award-fee basis.  Sales under these contracts were $1,379
   million in 1993.  The expiration dates for these contracts are, as
   follows, one in 1994, three in 1995 and one in 1996; funds are
   appropriated, work scopes are determined and fee pools are negotiated
   annually.  The INEL contract expires in October 1994 and the Company
   holds the majority interest in a joint venture that has submitted a
   proposal for increased work scope at the facility.  The Department of
   Energy's rules concerning contractor liability and performance
   evaluation currently apply to all five contracts.  These new performance
   evaluation criteria create greater variability in the incentive awards
   earned.  The contractor liability rules provide for increased contractor
   accountability for costs associated with events determined to have been
   avoidable.  This liability is generally limited to the fee earned in the
   grading period in which the avoidable event occurs.  In addition, the
   Department of Energy has announced its intention to proceed with a
   contract reform initiative.  Uncertainty continues to exist in the
   Company's  DOE Support segment due to changes in government budget and
   national priorities.  Sales to U.S. Government agencies, which were
   predominantly to the DOE, DoD and NASA, were $1,939 million, $2,035 million
   and $1,987 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.
          
         The Company's Kennedy Space Center contract with NASA generated
   sales of $201 million in 1993.  In October 1993, the Company was
   selected by NASA to continue as the base operations contractor at the
   Kennedy Space Center.  The new award-fee contract has a potential term
   of ten years, including options, contains reductions in contract value
   and could result in reductions in annual fee.  

         In accordance with government regulations, all of the Company's
   government contracts are subject to termination for the convenience of
   the government.  
 
 

   Competition  
   -----------

        Because of the wide range of its products and services, the
   Company faces many different types of competition and competitors. 
   Competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations that
   produce a comprehensive array of goods and services, to small concerns
   producing a few goods or services for specialized market segments. 

         The Technical Services segment provides technical services to
   several agencies of the federal government, including DoD Departments
   and NASA.  This business is typically won through competition with a
   number of large and small government contractors, many of whom are as
   large or larger than the Company and who, therefore, have resources and 
   capabilities that are comparable to or greater than those of the
   Company.  The primary bases for competition in these markets are
   technical and management capabilities, current and past performance,
   and price.  Competition is typically subject to mandated procurement and
   competitive bidding requirements.  Competition for automotive testing
   services is primarily from a few specialized testing companies and from
   customer-owned testing facilities.  Automotive testing competition is
   primarily based on quality, service, and price.   

         In the DOE Support segment, the Company is subject to federally
   mandated procurement procedures, usually bidding competitively against a
   variety of large and small government contractors.  Whereas in the past
   the Company was occasionally granted a sole-source opportunity for this
   work, the Company anticipates that future business will be obtained
   through competitive bidding subject to DOE procurement procedures.  Some
   of the competitors in this segment are larger than the Company and
   therefore may have resources and capabilities that are comparable to or
   greater than those of the Company. 

         In the Instruments segment, the Company primarily competes with
   small specialized instrument companies that serve narrow segments of
   markets in oceanographic equipment; x-ray security systems; nuclear,
   industrial, diagnostic, clinical and oil and gas related instrumentation.  
   The Company competes in these markets on the basis of product performance,
   product reliability, service and price.  Consolidation of competitors
   through acquisitions and mergers and the Company's increasing activity
   in selected diagnostics and industrial markets will increase the
   proportion of large competitors in this segment.  

         In the Mechanical Components segment, the Company is a leading
   supplier of selected precision aircraft exhaust components, specialized
   fans and heat transfer devices, and mechanical seals for industrial
   applications.  Competition in these areas is typically from small
   specialized manufacturing companies. 
       
 

          The Company is among the leading suppliers of specialty
   flashtubes, silicon photodetectors, avalanche photodiodes, cadmium
   sulfide and cadmium selenide detectors, photodiode arrays and switched
   power supplies, all of which are part of the Company's Optoelectronics
   segment.  Typically, competition is from small specialized manufacturing
   companies.  

          Within both the Mechanical Components and Optoelectronics
   segments, competition for governmental purchases is subject to mandated
   procurement procedures and competitive bidding practices.  In both of
   these segments, the Company competes on the basis of product
   performance, quality, service and price.  In much of the Optoelectronics
   segment and in the specialized fan and aircraft and marine mechanical
   seal markets included in the Mechanical Components segment, advancing
   technology and research and development are important competitive
   factors. 
 

   Research and Development
   ------------------------

        During 1993, 1992 and 1991, Company-sponsored research and
  development expenditures were approximately $34.7 million, $32.1 million
  and $24.7 million, respectively. Customer-sponsored research and
  development, primarily for Department of Energy programs, accounted for
  additional expenditures of approximately $137 million in 1993, $133
  million in 1992 and $127 million in 1991. 


   Environmental Compliance  
   ------------------------

      The Company is conducting a number of environmental investigations and
  remedial actions at current and former Company locations and, along with other
  companies, has been named a potentially responsible party for certain waste
  disposal sites. The Company accrues for environmental issues in the accounting
  period in which the Company's responsibility is established and the cost can
  be reasonably estimated.  There have been no environmental matters to date
  which had or are expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial
  position or results of operations.   

        The Company's compliance with the laws, rules and regulations relating
  to the protection of the environment has not had, and is not expected to have,
  a material adverse effect on its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
  position.

           
  Employees
  ---------

      As of March 17, l994, the Company employed approximately 32,000 persons. 
  Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor
  unions.  The Company considers its relations with employees to be
  satisfactory. 

 

  Financial Information About Industry Segments
  ---------------------------------------------

        The Company's operations are classified into five industry segments: 
  Technical Services, DOE Support, Instruments, Mechanical Components and
  Optoelectronics. The Company has changed the way its products and services 
  are grouped into industry segments to better reflect the markets served 
  and the Company's strategies for the future.  Data for prior periods have 
  been restated accordingly.
  
 


        DOE Support's identifiable assets mainly represent accounts receivable
  for fees from the U.S. Department of Energy. DOE Support's assets do not
  include U.S. Government funds and facilities that are devoted to the contracts
  and for which the Company is custodian. Corporate assets consist primarily of
  cash and cash equivalents, prepaid taxes and investments.
 
 

  Financial Information About Geographic Areas
  --------------------------------------------

       Over 60% of the identifiable assets of the non-U.S. operations are 
  located in European Community countries.  Transfers between geographic 
  areas were not material.


  ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
  --------------------

        The Company occupies approximately 5,789,700 square feet of building
  area, of which approximately 1,768,400 square feet is owned and the balance
  leased.  The Company's headquarters occupies 53,350 square feet of leased
  space in Wellesley, Massachusetts.  The Company's other operations are
  conducted in manufacturing and assembly plants, research laboratories,
  administrative offices and other facilities located in 27 states,
  Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and 24 foreign
  countries.

        Non-U.S. facilities account for approximately 1,278,600 square feet of
  owned and leased property, or approximately 22% percent of the Company's total
  occupied space.

        The Company's leases on property are both short-term and long-term.  In
  management's opinion, the Company's properties are well-maintained and are
  adequate for its present requirements.  Future space requirements are 

 


  anticipated and appropriate facility plans will be implemented to meet those
  requirements.

       At certain government facilities, the Company occupies government
  furnished space.  In addition, a substantial part of the equipment and
  machinery used by the Company in the performance of its government contracts
  has been furnished by the government.  Substantially all of the machinery and
  equipment used by the Company in its other activities is owned by the Company
  and the balance is leased or furnished by contractors or customers.

       The following table indicates the approximate square footage of  real
  property owned and leased attributable to each of the Company's industry
  segments.


  ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
  --------------------------

      The Company is subject to various investigations, claims, and legal
  proceedings covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course
  of its business activities.  Each of these matters is subject to various
  uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved
  unfavorably to the Company.  The Company has established accruals for matters
  that are probable and reasonably estimable.  Management believes that any
  liability that may ultimately result from the resolution of these matters in
  excess of amounts provided will not have a material adverse effect on the
  financial position or results of operations of the Company.


  ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
  ------------------------------------------------------------

      Not applicable. 

 


                                     PART II


  ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        The Company's common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock
  Exchange.  The number of holders of record of the Company's Common Stock as of
  February 25, 1994, was approximately 15,712.  

        In October l993 the Board of Directors of the Company voted an increase
  in the Company's quarterly cash dividend from thirteen cents to fourteen cents
  per share.  The quarterly cash dividend was paid on February 10, l994, to
  stockholders of record at the close of business on January 21, l994. 

 


   ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  
   --------------------------------


 

   ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------     
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
   ---------------------


   Results of Operations
   ---------------------

        The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of the major changes
   by industry segment.


   1993 Compared to 1992 

   Sales
           
   Sales for 1993 were $2,698 million, $91 million below 1992 sales of $2,789
   million.   

   Technical Services:  The $27 million increase resulted from an increase of
   $24 million in automotive testing services caused primarily by the
   introduction of new industry testing protocols, partially offset by a $10
   million reduction in contract billings at the Kennedy Space Center.  

   DOE Support:  The majority of the $90 million decrease resulted from a lower
   program scope at Rocky Flats and the impact of the moratorium on nuclear
   testing on Energy Measurements.  The shift in sales and related cost of sales
   from products to services presented in the Consolidated Statement of Income
   reflects the change, compared to 1992, from production to environmental
   restoration services at some facilities.  

   Instruments:  The $10 million increase resulted from the $43 million sales 
   of Wallac acquired in June 1993, partially offset by reduced scientific,
   industrial and security instruments sales due to sluggish market conditions,
   lower foreign exchange rates and large orders shipped in 1992. 

   Mechanical Components:  The $29 million decrease was attributable to a $21
   million reduction in aerospace sales due primarily to continued softness in
   this market and, to a lesser extent, the divestiture of two operations.

   Optoelectronics:  The $9 million decrease was due mainly to the completion of
   several programs in 1992, partially offset by the sales of Heimann
   Optoelectronics acquired early in the second quarter of 1992.  


   Income From Operations

   Income from operations was $120.8 million in 1993, a 2% decrease from 1992.

   Technical Services:  The $11.3 million increase was due primarily to higher
   sales and improved margins in the automotive testing services business.  In 

 

   October 1993, the Company was selected by NASA to continue as the base
   operations contractor at the Kennedy Space Center. The new contract has a
   potential term of 10 years, including options, contains reductions in 
   contract value and could result in reductions in annual fee of 
   approximately $5 million.  

   DOE Support:  Uncertainty continues to exist in the DOE Support segment due 
   to changes in government budgets and national priorities.  The $20.7 million
   decrease was primarily attributable to Rocky Flats which experienced lower
   grades and a reduction of available fee pool.  In addition, 1992 results
   included a favorable profit adjustment due to higher than anticipated
   performance grades at year-end 1991.  Lower grades on the Idaho contract also
   contributed, to a lesser extent, to the decrease. The Idaho contract expires
   in October 1994, and the Company is participating as the majority interest in
   a joint venture that has submitted a proposal for increased work scope at the
   facility.  The Department of Energy's rules concerning contractor liability
   and performance evaluation became effective for the remaining two contracts,
   REECo and Mound, in October 1993.  These rules, coupled with the Department 
   of Energy's announced intention to proceed with a contract reform initiative,
   create greater variability in the incentive awards earned and provide for
   increased contractor accountability. 
             
   Instruments:  The $5.6 million decrease resulted from lower sales of
   scientific, industrial and security instruments partially offset by the 
   income generated by the Wallac acquisition.  Management has initiated a 
   review to assess certain operating elements of this segment.  The  
   Instruments segment remains an integral part of the Company's long-term
   growth strategy.  

   Mechanical Components:  Improved profitability resulting from cost reduction
   programs in the industrial sealing and electromechanical businesses more than
   offset the impact of lower aerospace sales, generating a $2.6 million
   increase.

   Optoelectronics:  The $7.8 million increase was due to improved profitability
   as a result of cost reductions at Heimann Optoelectronics.  The 1992 results
   included a charge of $6.3 million for the write-down of the net assets of two
   businesses to their estimated disposal value. 

   General Corporate Expenses:  The $2.3 million decrease was due to the absence
   of corporate management incentives in 1993.    

        The net change in other income (expense) was an increase in income of
  $3.1 million.  This was primarily due to gains on investments.  The 1993
  effective tax rate of 34.7% is higher than the 27.5% in 1992 primarily because
  the 1992 rate reflected a favorable adjustment of prior estimated tax
  liabilities and the tax benefit resulting from the sale of an investment in a
  hydroelectric power plant.
             
        During the first quarter of 1993, the Company adopted Statement of
  Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 106 on accounting for postretirement
  benefits other than pensions for its U.S. retiree health benefits and SFAS No.
  109 on accounting for income taxes.  The adoption of SFAS No. 106 resulted in
  an after-tax charge of $13.2 million ($.23 per share) while the charge for 

 


  SFAS No. 109 was $7.3 million ($.13 per share).  See Notes 13 and 16 for
  additional disclosures.

        The Company reduced its discount rate for employee benefit plans in 1993
  as a result of the decrease in long-term interest rates.  The effects of the
  lower discount rates were partially offset by corresponding reductions in
  assumptions for compensation increases and health care cost trend rates.  The
  net results of these changes will not materially affect the Company's results
  of operations.


  1992 Compared to 1991

  Sales

  1992 sales of $2,789 million were $100 million higher than the $2,689 million
  achieved in 1991.  

  Technical Services:  The increase of $22 million was generated by higher sales
  levels under various government contracts.  

  DOE Support:  Sales increased $39 million due to higher program scopes at most
  of the operations.  

  Instruments:  Sales decreased $3 million from lower security and industrial
  instruments sales that were partially offset by higher scientific instruments
  sales.  

  Mechanical Components:   The $21 million decrease resulted from $14 million
  lower sales in the aerospace business due primarily to general softness in the
  market and, to a lesser extent, from a 1991 divestiture.  

  Optoelectronics:  The sales of Heimann Optoelectronics acquired early in the
  second quarter of 1992 were the main contributor to the  $64 million increase.


  Income From Operations

  Income from operations was $123.2 million in 1992, a decrease of $2 million
  from the 1991 level.  

  Technical Services:  The $0.9 million increase was generated by the margin on
  increased government sales offset by lower margins in the automotive testing
  business caused by slightly lower sales and costs associated with follow-on
  test programs.  

  DOE Support:  All operations contributed to the $14.7 million increase, the
  majority of which was due to higher award fee pools, with the largest increase
  at the Rocky Flats facility.   

 


  Instruments:  The $5.4 million decrease was due to lower sales and changes in
  sales mix for security and industrial instruments as well as lower security
  instruments margins caused by competitive pricing pressures; these decreases
  were partially offset by improved margins and higher volume on scientific
  instruments.  

  Mechanical Components:   Income decreased $6.3 million, resulting from cost
  inefficiencies and product mix in the industrial sealing and electromechanical
  businesses and the profit impact of lower sales.  These decreases were
  partially offset by lower costs in Europe in 1992 and general productivity
  improvements in the aerospace business.  The 1991 results included charges for
  environmental cleanup costs.

  Optoelectronics:   Income decreased $3.5 million.  The 1992 results included a
  $6.3 million charge to write-down two businesses' net assets, including
  goodwill, to their estimated disposal value.  This write-down was included in
  general and administrative expense.  Higher costs and manufacturing
  inefficiencies at an operation also contributed to the decrease.  Partially 
  offsetting the decreases were improved margins at some operations.  The 1991
  results included program cost write-offs.

  General Corporate Expenses:  The $2.4 million increase was due to increased
  training and business development expenses as well as normal cost increases in
  1992, partially offset by reduced management incentives.   

        The net change in other income (expense) was a decrease in expense of
  $2.8 million due primarily to lower interest expense. The decrease in the
  effective tax rate from 32.5% in 1991 to 27.5% in 1992 reflected a tax benefit
  resulting from the sale of an investment in a hydroelectric power plant and a
  higher favorable adjustment of prior estimated tax liabilities in 1992.


  Financial Condition
  -------------------

        The Company's cash and cash equivalents increased $2.4 million to $72.2
  million at the end of 1993 while total debt increased $2.8 million to $45
  million. During the second quarter of 1993, the Company acquired Wallac for
  net cash of $33.8 million and a one-year note for $5.4  million. Cash flows
  from operating activities totaled $112.1 million in 1993, $127.8 million in
  1992 and $104.4 million in 1991 and were principally used for capital
  expenditures, acquisitions, debt retirement and dividends.  In addition, the
  Company increased its purchases of common stock by one million shares in 1993.

        At the end of 1993, the Company had $34.9 million of commercial paper
  outstanding, an increase of $3 million over last year's balance. Commercial
  paper, which is the Company's principal source of borrowing, continues to be
  rated "A-1" by Standard & Poor's.  Moody's recently changed its rating to
  "Prime-2" from "Prime-1." The Company's commercial paper borrowing cost is not
  expected to increase significantly as a result of the rating change. Credit
  agreements, which are in the process of being restructured, total $300 million
  and serve as backup facilities. 
 
 


        The Company invested $27.9 million in physical plant and equipment in
  1993 and expects to increase this level of investment to approximately $50
  million in 1994 to support new product development initiatives in the
  Instruments and Optoelectronics segments.  In October 1993, the Board of
  Directors authorized the purchase of up to a total of 5.5 million shares of
  the Company's common stock through periodic purchases on the open market. 
  During 1993, the Company purchased 1.1 million shares under this new program. 
  The Company, which is considering financing these activities with a
  combination of short-term and long-term debt and cash flows from operations,
  believes it can take these actions and retain the flexibility to maintain both
  its product development and growth strategies.


  Dividends  
  ---------

        In October 1993, the Board of Directors voted to increase the Company's
  quarterly cash dividend by 8% to 14 cents per share, beginning with the
  dividend payable in February 1994 and resulting in an annual rate of 56 cents
  per share for 1994. EG&G has paid cash dividends, without interruption, for 29
  years and has increased dividends each year since 1974. The Company continues
  to retain what management believes to be sufficient earnings to support the
  funding requirements of its planned growth. 

 


  ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  ----------------------------------------------------

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
  statements. 

 

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
  statements. 

 

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial 
   statements. 


 

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial 
   statements.


            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


   1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

   Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements
   include the accounts of EG&G, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company).
   All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated
   in consolidation.

   Sales: Cost-reimbursement sales are recorded as costs are incurred and
   include applicable income in the proportion that costs incurred bear to
   total estimated costs. Sales and income on fixed-price contracts are
   recorded at the completion of the contract, at the end of a contract
   phase for service contracts and at the time of shipment for products. If
   a loss is anticipated on any contract, provision for the entire loss is
   made immediately.

        The Company performs technical, scientific, production and support
   activities under contracts with the U.S. Department of Energy. The
   Consolidated Statement of Income does not include billings and
   associated costs for nonvalue-added support activities. However, the
   fees derived from these support activities were included in sales in the
   amounts of $13.8 million, $16.2 million and $12.3 million in 1993, 1992
   and 1991, respectively.  The shift in sales from products to services
   presented in the Consolidated Statement of Income in 1993 reflects the
   change, compared to 1992, from production to environmental restoration
   services at some of the DOE Support facilities.

   Inventories: Inventories, which include material, labor and
   manufacturing overhead, are valued at the lower of cost or market. The
   majority of inventories is accounted for using the first-in, first-out
   method. All other inventories are accounted for using the last-in,
   first-out method.

   Property, Plant and Equipment: The Company depreciates plant and
   equipment over their estimated useful lives using accelerated methods
   for both financial statement and income tax purposes. For financial
   statement purposes, the estimated useful lives generally fall within the
   following ranges: buildings and special-purpose structures - 10 to 25
   years; leasehold improvements - estimated useful life or remaining term
   of lease, whichever is shorter; machinery and equipment - 3 to 7 years; 

 

   special-purpose equipment - expensed or over the life of the initial
   related contract. Nonrecurring tooling costs are capitalized while
   recurring costs are expensed.

   Pension Plans: The Company's funding policy provides that payments to
   the U.S. pension trusts shall at least be equal to the minimum funding
   requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
   Non-U.S. plans are generally not funded.

   Foreign Exchange: The balance sheet accounts of non-U.S. operations,
   exclusive of stockholders' equity, are translated at year-end exchange
   rates, and income statement accounts are translated at weighted average
   rates in effect during the year; any translation adjustments are made
   directly to a component of stockholders' equity. The after-tax aggregate
   net transaction gains (losses) were not material for the years
   presented.

   Intangible Assets: Intangible assets result from acquisitions accounted
   for using the purchase method of accounting and include the excess of
   cost over the fair market value of the net assets of the acquired
   businesses. These amounts are being amortized over periods of up to 40
   years.  Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company continually evaluates
   whether later events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the
   remaining estimated useful life of goodwill may warrant revision or that
   the remaining balance of goodwill may not be recoverable.  When factors
   indicate that goodwill should be evaluated for possible impairment, the
   Company uses an estimate of the related business segment's future cash
   flow over the remaining life of the goodwill in measuring whether the
   goodwill is recoverable.

   Cash Flows: For purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,
   the Company considers all highly liquid instruments with a purchased
   maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The carrying
   amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value due to the
   short maturities. 

   Financial Instruments: Disclosures about fair value of financial
   instruments, including the methods and assumptions used to estimate the
   fair values, are included in Notes 6 and 8.


   2.  Acquisitions


        In June 1993, the Company acquired The Wallac Group (Wallac), a
   unit of Procordia AB, for a total purchase price of approximately $46
   million, including related expenses, consisting of $41 million cash and
   a one-year note for $5 million.  This acquisition was accounted for
   using the purchase method.  The excess of the cost over the fair market
   value of the net assets acquired is estimated to be $24 million, which
   is being amortized over 20 years using a straight-line method.  Wallac's
   results of operations were included in the consolidated results of the
   Company from the date of acquisition. 

 

        Early in the second quarter of 1992, the Company completed the
   acquisition of the Heimann Optoelectronics Division of Siemens AG for
   cash of approximately $60 million, including related expenses. This
   acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method. The excess of
   the cost over the fair market value of the net assets acquired was $23
   million, which is being amortized over 20 years using a straight-line
   method. Heimann's results of operations were included in the
   consolidated results of the Company from the date of acquisition.

        The effect of the purchased acquisitions was not material to the
   results of operations. The products of the acquired companies are
   described elsewhere in this report.


   3. Accounts Receivable

         Accounts receivable as of January 2, 1994 and January 3, 1993
   included unbilled receivables of $67.8 million and $91.1 million,
   respectively, which were due primarily from U.S. Government agencies.
   Accounts receivable were net of reserves for doubtful accounts of $6.1
   million and $5.6 million, respectively.


   4. Inventories


         The portion of inventories accounted for using the last-in,
   first-out (LIFO) method of determining inventory costs in 1993 and 1992
   approximated 24% and 27%, respectively, of total inventories. The excess
   of current cost of inventories over the LIFO value was approximately $10
   million at January 2, 1994 and $11 million at January 3, 1993.
 
 

   5. Property, Plant and Equipment, at Cost



   6. Investments



         Marketable investments consisted of common stocks and trust
   assets, which were invested in money market funds, fixed income
   securities and common stocks to meet the supplemental executive
   retirement plan obligation. These investments had an aggregate market
   value of $13.1 million and $9.7 million at January 2, 1994 and January
   3, 1993, respectively. At January 2, 1994, gross unrealized gains on
   marketable investments were $6.3 million. The market values were based
   on quoted market prices.

         Other investments consisted of nonmarketable investments in
   private companies and venture capital partnerships, which are carried at
   the lower of cost or net realizable value. The estimated aggregate fair
   value of other investments approximated the carrying amount at 
   January 2, 1994 and January 3, 1993. The fair values of other
   investments were estimated based primarily on the most recent rounds of
   financing and securities transactions and, to a lesser extent, on other
   pertinent information, including financial condition and operating
   results. 

         Joint venture investments are accounted for using the equity
   method. 

 

         The Company will adopt SFAS No. 115 on accounting for certain
   investments in debt and equity securities in 1994.  This new standard
   requires that available-for-sale investments in equity securities that
   have readily determinable fair values be measured at fair value in the
   balance sheet.  Unrealized holding gains and losses for these
   investments shall be excluded from earnings and reported as a net amount
   in a separate component of stockholders' equity until realized.  The
   Company does not expect at this time that the statement, when adopted,
   will have a material impact on its financial position.


   7. Intangible and Other Assets


 
        Intangible assets were shown net of accumulated amortization of
   $25.5 million and $22.2 million at January 2, 1994 and January 3, 1993,
   respectively. The increase in intangible assets was due primarily to the
   acquisition of Wallac in 1993, partially offset by current year
   amortization and the effect of translating goodwill denominated in non-
   U.S. currencies at current exchange rates. The majority of the increase
   in other assets was due to increases in long-term prepaid pension of
   $7.9 million and income taxes of $4.3 million.


   8. Debt

         Short-term debt at January 2, 1994 and January 3, 1993 consisted
   primarily of commercial paper in the amounts of $34.9 million and $32
   million, respectively, which had maturities of less than 90 days.
   Commercial paper borrowings averaged $42.7 million during 1993 at an
   average interest rate of 3.2% compared to average borrowings of $41.8
   million during 1992 at an average interest rate of 4.1%. Current
   maturities of long-term debt are also included in this account.

         The Company has a $150 million multicurrency credit agreement with
   a domestic banking group. It consists of a $100 million three-year
   revolving credit agreement followed by a three-year term loan, and a $50
   million two-year revolving credit agreement followed by a three-year
   term loan. In addition, the Company has multicurrency credit agreements 

 


   with an international banking group totaling $150 million, consisting of
   a $120 million one-year revolving credit agreement and a $30 million
   two-year revolving credit agreement. These lines of credit serve as
   backup facilities for the commercial paper borrowing.  The Company,
   which is in the process of restructuring its credit agreements, is in
   compliance with all covenants.

         During 1993, the Company terminated its interest rate and currency
   exchange agreement, entered into in 1989, that effectively established a
   73.5 million D-mark principal obligation in exchange for $40 million.
   Long-term liabilities associated with the swap agreement at January 3,
   1993 were $5.3 million, which approximated fair value.

         At January 2, 1994 and January 3, 1993, long-term debt amounts of
   $1.5 million and $2 million, respectively, were included in long-term
   liabilities.  The carrying amount of the Company's long-term debt
   approximated fair value.


   9. Accrued Expenses




    10. Contingencies

         The Company is subject to various investigations, claims and legal
   proceedings covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary
   course of its business activities.  Each of these matters is subject to
   various uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may
   be resolved unfavorably to the Company.  The Company has established
   accruals for matters that are probable and reasonably estimable. 
   Management believes that any liability that may ultimately result from
   the resolution of these matters in excess of amounts provided will not
   have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of
   operations of the Company. 

         In addition, the Company is conducting a number of environmental
   investigations and remedial actions at current and former Company
   locations and, along with other companies, has been named a potentially
   responsible party for certain waste disposal sites. The Company accrues
   for environmental issues in the accounting period in which the Company's 

 


   responsibility is established and the cost can be reasonably estimated. 
   There have been no environmental problems to date which had or are
   expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial position
   or results of operations.   


   11. Stockholders' Equity

         At January 2, 1994, 4.5 million shares of the Company's common
   stock were reserved for employee benefit plans.

         The Company has nonqualified and incentive stock option plans for
   officers and key employees. Under these plans, options may be granted at
   prices not less than 100% of the fair market value on the date of grant.
   All options are exercisable at the date of grant and expire 10 years
   from the date of grant. The Stock Option Committee of the Board of
   Directors, at its sole discretion, may also include stock appreciation
   rights in any option granted. There are no stock appreciation rights
   outstanding under these plans.



         The Company's Employees Stock Purchase Plan was terminated as of
   October 31, 1993. During 1993 and 1992, the Company issued 1.2 million
   shares and 1.1 million shares, respectively, under this plan. 

         On January 22, 1992, the Board of Directors declared a 2-for-1
   stock split, paid May 8, 1992, in the form of a dividend of one
   additional share of the Company's common stock for each share owned by
   stockholders of record at the close of business on April 17, 1992. Par
   value remained at $1 per share. The stock split resulted in the issuance 



   of 30,051,000 additional shares of common stock from authorized but
   unissued shares. The issuance of authorized but unissued shares resulted
   in the transfer of $3,657,000 from capital in excess of par value and
   $26,394,000 from retained earnings to common stock, representing the par
   value of the shares issued. 

         The Company declared a dividend distribution of one right on each
   share of common stock outstanding on and after February 9, 1987. Each
   right, when exercisable, entitles a stockholder to buy one two-hundredth
   of a share of a new series of preferred stock at a price of $50. The
   rights become exercisable when a person or group acquires 20% or more or
   tenders for 30% or more of the Company's common stock. This preferred
   stock is nonredeemable and will have one vote per share. The rights are
   nonvoting, expire in 1997 and may be redeemed prior to becoming
   exercisable. The Company has reserved 500,000 preferred shares,
   designated as Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, for
   issuance upon exercise of such rights. In the event that the Company is
   acquired in a merger or other business combination, each outstanding
   right would entitle a holder to purchase that number of shares of common
   stock of the surviving company which, at the time of such transaction,
   would have a market value of two times the exercise price paid.


   12. Research and Development

         During 1993, 1992 and 1991, Company-sponsored research and
   development expenditures were approximately $34.7 million, $32.1 million
   and $24.7 million, respectively. Customer-sponsored research and
   development, primarily for Department of Energy programs, accounted for
   additional expenditures of approximately $137 million in 1993, $133
   million in 1992 and $127 million in 1991. 


   13. Employee Benefit Plans

         The Company has a savings plan for the benefit of qualified U.S.
   employees.  Under this plan, the Company contributes an amount equal to
   the lesser of 50% of the amount of the employee's voluntary contribution
   or 3% of the employee's annual compensation.  In 1994, the Company
   contribution will be increased to the lesser of 55% of the employee's
   voluntary contribution or 3.3% of the employee's annual compensation.  

 

         The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering
   substantially all U.S. employees and non-U.S. pension plans for non-U.S.
   employees. The plans provide benefits that are based on an employee's
   years of service and compensation near retirement. Assets of the U.S.
   plan are composed primarily of corporate equity and debt securities.



        The increase in 1992 pension costs resulted from the inclusion of
   new participants and the pension expense of Heimann Optoelectronics,
   acquired in 1992.
 
 


         The following table sets forth the funded status of the principal
   U.S. plan and the principal non-U.S. plans and the amounts recognized in
   the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 2, 1994 and 
   January 3, 1993:



         The non-U.S. accrued pension liability included $22.7 million and
   $21.9 million classified as long-term liabilities as of January 2, 1994
   and January 3, 1993, respectively.  The U.S. pension asset was
   classified as other assets.

         The Company also sponsors a supplemental executive retirement plan
   to provide senior management with benefits in excess of normal pension
   benefits. At January 2, 1994 and January 3, 1993, the projected benefit
   obligations were $10.2 million and $7.1 million, respectively. Assets of
   $4.7 million and $3.3 million, segregated in a trust, were available to
   meet this obligation as of January 2, 1994 and January 3, 1993. Pension
   expense for this plan was approximately $1 million in 1993, $0.9 million
   in 1992 and $0.7 million in 1991.

         Effective January 4, 1993, the Company adopted SFAS No. 106 on
   accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions for its U.S.
   retiree health benefits.  This statement requires the expected cost of
   postretirement benefits to be charged to expense during the years in
   which employees render service.  This is a change from the prior policy 

 

   of recognizing these costs as paid.  As part of adopting the new
   standard, the Company recorded a one-time, non-cash charge against
   earnings of $20 million before taxes, or $13.2 million after income 
   taxes ($.23 per share).  This cumulative adjustment represents the
   discounted present value of expected future retiree health benefits
   attributed to employees' service rendered prior to January 4, 1993. 

        The Company provides health care benefits for eligible retired
   U.S. employees under a comprehensive major medical plan or under health
   maintenance organizations where available.  The majority of the
   Company's U.S. employees become eligible for retiree health benefits if
   they retire directly from the Company and have at least 10 years of
   service.  Generally, the major medical plan pays stated percentages of
   covered expenses after a deductible is met, and takes into consideration
   payments by other group coverages and by Medicare.  The Plan requires
   retiree contributions under most circumstances and has provisions for
   cost sharing changes.  For employees retiring after 1991, the Company
   has capped its medical premium contribution based on employees' years of
   service.  The Company funds the amount allowable under a 401(h)
   provision in the Company's defined benefit pension plan.  Assets of the
   plan are composed primarily of corporate equity and debt securities.

         Postretirement medical benefit expense computed under SFAS No. 106
   amounted to $2 million in 1993.  Amounts included in expense for 1992
   and 1991 under the previous cash method of accounting were $0.8 million
   and $0.7 million, respectively.  If the 1993 expense had been determined
   under the cash method of accounting, the amount recognized would have
   been $1 million. 

 



         The accumulated postretirement medical benefit obligation included
   $18 million classified as long-term liabilities as of January 2, 1994.

         If the health care cost trend rate was increased 1%, the accumulated
   postretirement benefit obligation would have increased by approximately
   $1.6 million.  The effect of this increase on the annual cost for 1993
   would be approximately $0.1 million.

         The Company also has an incentive compensation plan for certain
   officers and key employees. Awards under this plan are approved annually by
   the Board of Directors and are limited by certain predetermined criteria. 

 

         The total expense under all benefit plans referred to above amounted
   to approximately $18.8 million in 1993, $21 million in 1992 and $23.2
   million in 1991.  In addition, the Company maintains various other employee
   benefit plans, including health and life insurance plans.

         The above information does not include amounts related to benefit
   plans applicable to employees associated with contracts with the Department
   of Energy and NASA because the Company is not responsible for the current
   or future funded status of the plans.

         The Company will adopt SFAS No. 112 on accounting for postemployment
   benefits in 1994.  This new standard requires that benefits paid for former
   or inactive employees after employment but prior to retirement must be
   accrued if certain criteria are met.  The Company does not expect at this
   time that the statement, when adopted, will have a material impact on its
   financial position or results of operations.


   14.  Leases

         The Company leases certain property and equipment under operating
   leases.  Rental expense charged to earnings for 1993, 1992 and 1991
   amounted to $18.7 million, $20.6 million and $19.6 million, respectively. 
   Minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases through
   1998 do not exceed $16.7 million annually and aggregate $4.4 million after
   1998.  The above information does not include amounts related to leases
   covered by contracts with the Department of Energy and NASA because the
   costs are reimbursable under the contracts.


   15. Other Income (Expense), Net


         Gains (losses) on investments for 1991 included net gains of
   $5.9 million resulting from sales of investment securities and a loss
   of $6.5 million due to a reduction in the carrying value of certain
   nonmarketable investments to their expected realizable values. 

 

   16. Income Taxes

         Effective January 4, 1993, the Company adopted SFAS No. 109 on
   accounting for income taxes.  This standard determines deferred income
   taxes based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between
   the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities, given
   the provisions of enacted tax laws.  Prior to the implementation of this
   statement, the Company accounted for income taxes under Accounting
   Principles Board Opinion No. 11.  As part of adopting the new standard,
   the Company recorded a one-time, non-cash charge against earnings of
   $7.3 million ($.13 per share).




         The provision for deferred (prepaid) taxes resulted primarily from
   temporary differences in the recognition of income and expenses for tax
   purposes and for financial statement purposes. The sources and tax
   effects related to the following: 



 


         The effect of SFAS No. 109 on the consolidated effective tax rate
   was minimal in 1993.  If SFAS No. 109 had been in effect for 1992 and
   1991, the consolidated effective tax rates would not have changed.


         In the above table, prepaid (deferred) income tax items were shown
   as assets or (liabilities) with no netting except for "other," which
   included prepaid tax assets of $19.7 million and deferred tax
   liabilities of $9.4 million.

         At January 2, 1994, the Company had non-U.S. net operating loss
   carryforwards of approximately $22.3 million for income tax purposes
   which either expire in years 1994 through 2000 or carryforward
   indefinitely.  The $9.9 million valuation allowance required under SFAS
   No. 109 represents the tax effect of non-U.S. net operating loss
   carryforwards that are not anticipated to be utilized. 

 

         Current prepaid income taxes of $18.7 million and $23.2 million at
   January 2, 1994 and January 3, 1993, respectively, were included in
   other current assets. Long-term prepaid income taxes of $13.6 million
   and $9.2 million were included in other long-term assets at January 2,
   1994 and January 3, 1993, respectively.

         In general, it is the practice and intention of the Company to
   reinvest the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations. 
   Repatriation of retained earnings is done only when it is advantageous.
   Applicable Federal taxes are provided only on amounts planned to be
   remitted. Accumulated net earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries for which no
   Federal taxes have been provided for 1993, 1992 and 1991 were 
   $66.6 million, $59.1 million and $53 million, respectively, exclusive of
   those amounts that if remitted would result in little or no additional
   tax due to the availability of non-U.S. tax credits.  Federal taxes on
   these earnings would have aggregated  for 1993, 1992 and 1991,
   respectively, $19.5 million, $17.1 million and $16 million.

         The Internal Revenue Service is currently examining the Company's
   Federal income tax returns for the years 1988 through 1990.  The Company
   believes that the results of this examination will not have a material
   effect on its financial position or results of operations.


   17. Earnings Per Share

         Earnings per share of common stock were computed by dividing net
   income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. The
   number of shares issuable on the exercise of stock options had no
   material effect on earnings per share. The weighted average number of
   shares used in the earnings per share computations were 56,504,000 for
   1993, 56,385,000 for 1992 and 55,901,000 for 1991.


   18. Industry Segment and Geographic Area Information

         The Company's operations are classified into five industry
   segments:  Technical Services, DOE Support, Instruments, Mechanical
   Components and Optoelectronics. The Company has changed the way its
   products and services are grouped into industry segments to better
   reflect the markets served and the Company's strategies for the future. 
   Data for prior periods have been restated accordingly. The products and
   services of the segments are described elsewhere in the Annual Report.
   Sales and income from operations by industry segment are shown in the
   Segment Sales and Income section of this report; such information with
   respect to 1993, 1992 and 1991 is considered an integral part of this
   note. 

         Sales to U.S. Government agencies, which were predominantly to the
   Department of Energy, the Department of Defense and NASA, were $1,939
   million, $2,035 million and $1,987 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
   respectively. The Company currently has five major award-fee contracts
   with the Department of Energy, for which funds are appropriated, work
   scopes are determined and award-fee pools are negotiated annually. The 

 

   expiration dates for these contracts are as follows: one in 1994, three
   in 1995 and one in 1996. The Idaho contract expires in October 1994, and
   the Company is participating as the majority interest in a joint venture
   that has submitted a proposal for increased work scope at the facility. 
   The Department of Energy's rules concerning contractor liability and
   performance evaluation currently apply to all five contracts. These new
   performance evaluation criteria create greater variability in the
   incentive awards earned. The contractor liability rules provide for
   increased contractor accountability for costs associated with events
   determined to have been avoidable.  This liability is limited to the fee
   earned in the grading period in which the avoidable event occurs. In
   addition, the Department of Energy has announced its intention to
   proceed with a contract reform initiative.  In October 1993, the Company
   was selected by NASA to continue as the base operations contractor at
   the Kennedy Space Center. The new contract has a potential term of 10
   years, including options, contains reductions in contract value and
   could result in reductions in annual fee. 



 
 

        DOE Support's identifiable assets mainly represent accounts receivable
  for fees from the U.S. Department of Energy. DOE Support's assets do not
  include U.S. Government funds and facilities that are devoted to the contracts
  and for which the Company is custodian. Corporate assets consist primarily of
  cash and cash equivalents, prepaid taxes and investments.




        Over 60% of the identifiable assets of the non-U.S. operations are
  located in European Community countries. Transfers between geographic areas
  were not material.
 
 

  19. Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)



 


   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

   To the Stockholders of EG&G, Inc.:

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of EG&G,
   Inc. (a Massachusetts corporation) and subsidiaries as of January 2, 1994,
   and January 3, 1993, and the related consolidated statements of income,
   stockholders' equity and cash flows for the years ended January 2, 1994,
   January 3, 1993, and December 29, 1991.  These financial statements are
   the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to
   express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
   standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
   obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
   free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test
   basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
   statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
   used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
   the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
   provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
   present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of EG&G,
   Inc. and subsidiaries as of January 2, 1994, and January 3, 1993, and the
   results of their operations and their cash flows for the years ended
   January 2, 1994, January 3, 1993, and December 29, 1991, in conformity
   with generally accepted accounting principles.

   As explained in Notes 13 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements,
   effective January 4,  1993, the Company changed its method of accounting
   for postretirement benefits other than pensions and for income taxes.



   Boston, Massachusetts                            /s/Arthur Andersen & Co. 
   January 24, 1994                                 ------------------------ 
                                                    Arthur Andersen & Co.     

 
   ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
   ---------------------------------------------------------
   ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
   -----------------------------------

         None.

                                        PART III

   ITEM l0.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
   ------------------------------------------------------------

   a)  DIRECTORS 

         The information required by this Item with respect to Directors is 
   contained on Pages 3 through 9 of the Company's l994 Proxy Statement under 
   the captions "Election of Directors" and "Information Relative to the 
   Board of Directors and Certain of its Committees" and is herein 
   incorporated by reference.

   b)  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS  


 
 


         Mr. Kucharski joined the Company in 1972.  He was elected a Vice 
   President in 1979, a Senior Vice President in 1982 and Executive Vice 
   President in 1985.  In 1986 he was elected President and Chief Operating 
   Officer and in 1987 Chief Executive Officer.  

         Dr. Parks joined the Company in 1976.  He was elected a Vice 
   President in 1988 and a Senior Vice President in 1991.

         Mr. Valente joined the Company in 1968.  He was elected Treasurer in 
   1979, a Vice President in 1983, and a Senior Vice President in 1991 and is 
   Director of Acquisitions, Dispositions and Investments.  Mr. Valente did not 
   reflect in his reported holdings on Section 16(a) Form 4, 408 shares of 
   Common Stock held by his wife and with respect to which Mr. Valente 
   disclaims beneficial ownership.  A Form 4 was filed correcting the 
   inadvertent omission in Mr. Valente's reported holdings.

         Mr. Zane joined the Company in 1976.  He was elected a Vice President 
   in 1986 and a Senior Vice President in 1991 and is Group Executive of the
   DOE Support segment.

         Mr. Gross joined the Company in 1971.  He was elected Assistant General
   Counsel and Assistant Clerk in 1978 and Vice President and General Counsel in
   1990. 

         Mr. Alexander joined the Company in 1982.  He was elected Corporate
   Controller in 1991 and was appointed Acting Chief Financial Officer effective
   January 1994.

         Mr. Broadbent joined the Company in 1967.  He was elected Treasurer 
   in 1984.

         Mr. Castellana joined the Company in 1965.  He was elected a Vice 
   President in 1991 and is Chief Operating Officer of the Instruments 
   segment.  

         Mr. Dubay joined the Company in 1971.  He was elected a Vice President 
   in 1988 and is General Manager of EG&G Florida.

 
 


         Mr. Fraser joined the Company in 1961.  He was elected a Vice 
   President in 1990 and is General Manager of Reynolds Electrical and 
   Engineering Company.

         Mr. Illek joined the Company in 1976.  He was elected a Vice 
   President in 1992 and is Group Executive of the Instruments segment.

         Ms. Lorenz joined the Company in 1990.  She was elected a Vice 
   President in 1992.  From 1980 to 1990 Ms. Lorenz was Assistant Director 
   of Investor Relations at British Petroleum, plc.

         Mr. Murphy joined the Company in 1960.  He was elected a Vice 
   President of the Company in 1987 and is Corporate Director of Human 
   Resources.

         Dr. Peters joined the Company in 1968.  He was elected a Vice 
   President in 1987 and is Director of Planning.

         Mr. Rossi joined the Company in 1967.  He was elected a Vice 
   President in 1988 and is Group Executive of the Mechanical Components 
   segment.  

         Dr. Snow joined the Company in 1977.  He was elected a Vice 
   President in 1992 and is Group Executive of the Optoelectronics segment.

         Mr. C. M. Williams joined the Company in 1973.  He was elected a Vice
   President in 1984 and is Group Executive of the Technical Services segment.

         Mr. L. J. Williams joined the Company in 1973.  He was elected a Vice
   President in 1988 and is Director of Strategic Tax Projects.

         Mr. Zavattaro joined the Company in 1959.  He was elected a Vice 
   President in 1985 and is General Manager of Energy Measurements.


   ITEM ll.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
   --------------------------------

         The information required to be disclosed by this Item is contained in 
   Pages 12 - 21 of the Company's 1994 Proxy Statement from under the caption 
   "Board Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation"  up to and 
   including "Aggregated Option Exercises in the Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal 
   Year-End Value Table" and Notes thereto, and is herein incorporated by 
   reference.


   ITEM l2.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------

         The information required by this Item is contained on Pages 9-12 of 
   the Company's l994 Proxy Statement under the captions "Security Ownership 
   of Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" and 
   is herein incorporated by reference.

 
 

   ITEM l3.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
   --------------------------------------------------------

         Not applicable.


                                         PART IV


   ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
   --------------------------------------------------------------------------

   (a)  DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT:

      1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

         Included in Part II, Item 8:

         Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 2, 1994 and January 3, 1993

         Consolidated Statement of Income for the Three Years Ended 
         January 2, 1994

         Consolidated Statement of Stockholder's Equity for the Three Years 
         Ended January 2, 1994

         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Three Years Ended 
         January 2, 1994

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

         Report of Independent Public Accountants


      2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

         Report of independent public accountants on financial statement
         schedules

         Schedule VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

         Schedule IX - Short-Term Borrowings

            Financial statement schedules, other than those above, are omitted
      because of the absence of conditions under which they are required or
      because the required information is given in the financial statements or
      notes thereto.

            Separate financial statements of the Registrant are omitted since 
      it is primarily an operating company, and since all subsidiaries 
      included in the consolidated financial statements being filed, in the 
      aggregate, do not have minority equity interests and/or indebtedness 
      to any person other than the Registrant or its consolidated 
      subsidiaries in amounts which together exceed five percent of total 
      consolidated assets.
 
 


      3. EXHIBITS

      (i)   The  Company's  Restated Articles  of Organization,  as amended to
      date, including all Certificates of Vote of Directors Establishing a 
      Series of a Class of Stock were filed with the Commission on 
      July 16, 1992, as an Exhibit to Form-8 Amendment No. 1 to EG&G's Annual
      Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1991, and are 
      herein incorporated by reference.

      (ii)  The  Company's  By-Laws  as  amended  by  the Board  of Directors on
      April 23, 1991, and on January 22, 1992, were filed with the Commission as
      Exhibit 14 (a)(3).(ii) to EG&G's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
      fiscal year ended December 29, 1991, and are herein incorporated by 
      reference.

      (iii) The  form of certificate used  to evidence ownership of EG&G Common
      Stock, $1 par value, was filed as Exhibit 4(a) to EG&G's Registration
      Statement on Form S-3, File No. 2-69642, and is herein incorporated by
      reference.

   *  (iv)  The  EG&G, Inc. 1978 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan as amended by
      the Board of Directors on January 26, 1988, was filed with the Commission
      as Exhibit 14(a)3.(v) to EG&G's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
      year ending January 3, 1988, and is herein incorporated by reference.

   *  (v)   The EG&G, Inc. 1982 Incentive Stock Option Plan as amended by the
      Board of Directors on January 24, 1990, was filed with the Commission as
      Exhibit B on pages 37-42 of EG&G's 1990 Proxy Statement, and is
      herein incorporated by reference.

   *  (vi)  The EG&G, Inc. 1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN was filed as Exhibit 4(v) to
      EG&G's Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 33-49898, and is 
      herein incorporated by reference.

   *  (vii) Employment Contracts: 

            (1)  Employment contract between John M. Kucharski and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (2)  Employment contract between Murray Gross and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (3)  Employment contract between John F. Alexander, II and EG&G
            dated November 1, 1993.

            (4)  Employment contract between Peter A. Broadbent and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (5)  Employment contract between Angelo Castellana and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (6)  Employment contract between James R. Dubay and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

 
 

            (7)  Employment contract between Dale L. Fraser and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (8)  Employment contract between Deborah S. Lorenz and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (9)  Employment contract between Richard F. Murphy and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (10) Employment contract between Fred B. Parks and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (11) Employment contract between Donald H. Peters and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (12) Employment contract between Luciano S. Rossi and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (13) Employment contract between Edward H. Snow and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (14) Employment contract between Louis P. Valente and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (15) Employment contract between Charles M. Williams and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (16) Employment contract between Louis J. Williams and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (17) Employment contract between James O. Zane and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            (18) Employment contract between Peter H. Zavattaro and EG&G dated
            November 1, 1993.

            Except for the name of the officer in the employment contracts
      identified by numbers 3 through and including 18, the form of said
      employment contracts is identical in all respects.  The employment
      contracts identified by numbers 1 and 2 are identical to each other 
      and are virtually identical to the contracts identified by numbers 3 
      through 18 except that they provide for a longer contract term.  The
      employment contract between Richard F. Murphy and EG&G is 
      representative of the employment contracts of the executive officers,
      and is attached hereto as Exhibit 14(a)(vii).

   *  (viii)  Remunerative Plans:

            (1)  EG&G, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.  Information
      with respect to this item is found following the Notes to Table II on 
      Pages 17-18 of EG&G's 1994 Proxy Statement, and such information 
      is herein incorporated by reference. 

 

            (2)  EG&G, Inc. Management Incentive Plan.  Information with 
      respect to this item is found on Page 13 of EG&G's 1994 Proxy Statement
      under the caption "Annual Incentive Plan", and such information is 
      herein incorporated by reference.

      (ix)  Power of Attorney (appears on signature page)

      (x)   Subsidiaries of the Registrant

   *  This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
      required to be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.


   (b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K                                                   
        There have been no reports on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter
   of the the fiscal year ended January 2, 1994.


   (c)  PROXY STATEMENT

         EG&G's 1994 Proxy Statement, in definitive form, was filed
   electronically on March 17, 1994, with the Securities and Exchange Commission
   in Washington, D.C. pursuant to the Commission's Rule 14(a)-6. 


 

                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                                    ON SCHEDULES

   To EG&G, Inc.:

        We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
   standards, the consolidated financial statements of EG&G, Inc. included 
   in this Form 10-K and have issued our report thereon dated 
   January 24, 1994.  Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an 
   opinion on the basic financial statements taken as a whole.  Schedules 
   VIII and IX are the responsibility of the Company's management and are 
   presented for purposes of complying with the Securities an Exchange 
   Commission's rules and are not part of the basic financial statements.  
   These schedules have been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in 
   the audit of the basic financial statements and, in fairly state in all 
   material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in 
   relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.
                                                   

                                                /s/Arthur Andersen & Co.
   Boston, Massachusetts                        ------------------------
   January 24, 1994                             Arthur Andersen & Co.

    
 


                                    SCHEDULE VIII
                                    -------------


 


                                        SCHEDULE IX
                                        -----------



  The average amount outstanding during the period was based upon daily 
  balances for commercial paper and upon quarter-end balances for other 
  bank loans.

  The weighted average interest rate during the period was calculated based 
  upon daily rates for commercial paper and upon quarter-end rates for other 
  bank loans. 


 

                      CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

           As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the 
      incorporation by reference of our reports dated January 24, 1994, 
      included in this Form 10-K, into Registration Statements previously 
      filed by EG&G, Inc. on, respectively, Form S-8, File No. 2-61241;
      S-8, File No. 2-98168; Form S-8, 33-17466; Form S-8, File No. 33-36082;
      Form S-8, File No. 33-35379; Form S-8, File No. 33-35374; Form S-8, 
      File No. 33-43582; Form S-8, File No. 33-49898; and Form S-8, File 
      No. 33-57606.

      Boston, Massachusetts                        /s/Arthur Andersen & Co.   
      March 31, 1994                               ------------------------
                                                   ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.       

            
                                 POWER OF ATTORNEY

           We, the undersigned officers and directors of EG&G, Inc., hereby 
      severally constitute John M. Kucharski, and Murray Gross, and each of 
      them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with full power to them, 
      and each of them singly, to sign for us and in our names, in the
      capacities indicated below, this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and 
      all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K, and generally to do 
      all such things in our name and behalf in our capacities as officers 
      and directors to enable EG&G, Inc. to comply with the provisions of 
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all requirements of the 
      Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby rectifying and confirming
      signed by our said attorneys, and any and all amendments thereto.

           Witness our hands on the date set forth below.

                                     SIGNATURES

           Pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the 
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this 
      report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly 
      authorized.

                                      EG&G, Inc.

      March 30, 1994                  By:/s/John M. Kucharski           
                                         --------------------
                                         John M. Kucharski
                                         Chairman of the Board, President
                                         and Chief Executive Officer
                                         (Principal Executive Officer)

      March 30, 1994                  By:/s/John F. Alexander, II       
                                         ------------------------ 
                                         John F. Alexander, II
                                         Corporate Controller and Acting 
                                         Chief Financial Officer
                                         (Principal Accounting Officer and
                                          Principal Financial Officer) 


 
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
      this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of 
      the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:

      By:  /s/John M. Kucharski  
           --------------------
           John M. Kucharski, Director
      Date:  March 30, 1994


      By: /s/Gail Deegan        
          --------------
          Gail Deegan, Director
      Date:  March 30, 1994


      By:         
           -----------------------
           Dean W. Freed, Director
      Date:  ________________________


      By:     
           -----------------------
           Robert F. Goldhammer, Director
      Date:  ________________________


      By:         
           ----------------------
           John B. Gray, Director
      Date:  ________________________


      By:  /s/Kent F. Hansen       
           -----------------
           Kent F. Hansen, Director
      Date:  March 31, 1994


      By:  /s/Greta Marshall       
           -----------------
           Greta Marshall, Director
      Date:  March 30, 1994


      By:  /s/Samuel Rubinovitz       
           --------------------
           Samuel Rubinovitz, Director
      Date:  March 30, 1994


 


      By:  /s/William F. Pounds       
           --------------------
           William F. Pounds, Director
      Date:  March 30, 1994

      By:  /s/John Larkin Thompson     
           -----------------------
           John Larkin Thompson, Director
      Date:  March 30, 1994 


      By:  /s/G. Robert Tod       
           ----------------
           G. Robert Tod, Director
      Date:  March 30, 1994


      By:  /s/Joseph F. Turley       
           -------------------
           Joseph F. Turley, Director
      Date:  March 30, 1994 














































                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 
Item 601,
Regulation S-K
- --------------

Exhibit 14(a)3.(vii)  Employment Contract:

          Employment contract between Richard F. Murphy and EG&G, Inc. dated
     November 1, 1993.

Exhibit 21  Subsidiaries of the Registrant






