Item 1.Business

Basis of Presentation

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the term "Celanese" refers to Celanese Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The terms "Company," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Celanese and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The term "Celanese US" refers to the Company’s subsidiary, Celanese US Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and not its subsidiaries.

Industry

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes industry data obtained from industry publications and surveys as well as our own internal company surveys. Third-party industry publications, surveys and forecasts generally state that the information contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable. The statements regarding the Company’s industry position in this document are based on information derived from, among others, the2012 IHS Chemicals Economics Handbook.

Overview

The Company is a global technology and specialty materials company that engineers and manufactures a wide variety of products essential to everyday living. As a recognized innovator in product and process technology in the chemicals industry, we help to create applications that meet the needs of our customers worldwide. We are a leading global producer of high performance engineered polymers that are used in a variety of high-value applications. We are also one of the world's largest producers of acetyl products, which are intermediate chemicals for nearly all major industries.

Our highly-diversified product portfolio serves a broad range of end-use applications including paints and coatings, textiles, automotive applications, consumer and medical applications, performance industrial applications, filter media, paper and packaging, chemical additives, construction, consumer and industrial adhesives, and food and beverage applications. Serving a diverse global customer base, our products hold leading global positions in the major product industries that we serve, supported by our large global production capacity, operating efficiencies, proprietary production technology and competitive cost structures.

Celanese's history began in 1918, the year that its predecessor company, The American Cellulose & Chemical Manufacturing Company, was incorporated. The company, which manufactured cellulose acetate, was founded by Swiss brothers Drs. Camille and Henri Dreyfus. Since that time, the Company has transformed into a leading global chemical company. The current Celanese was incorporated in 2005 under the laws of the State of Delaware and is a US-based public company traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol CE.

Headquartered in Irving, Texas, our operations are primarily located in North America, Europe and Asia and consist of27global production facilities, and an additional 8 strategic affiliate production facilities.As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately7,430people worldwide.

Due to our geographic breadth, our net sales are balanced across the global regions. SeeNote 25 - Segment Informationin the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further details on our sales by geographic location.












Business Segment Overview

We operate principally through four business segments: Advanced Engineered Materials, Consumer Specialties, Industrial Specialties and Acetyl Intermediates. SeeNote 25 - Segment Informationin the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further details on our business segments.

The table below illustrates each business segment’s net sales to external customers for the year ended

December 31, 2013

, as well as each business segment’s major products and end-use applications.

AdvancedEngineered MaterialsConsumer SpecialtiesIndustrial SpecialtiesAcetyl Intermediates(In $ millions)2013 Net Sales(1)1,3521,2101,1552,793Key Products•  Polyoxymethylene ("POM")•  GUR®ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene•  Polybutylene terephthalate ("PBT")•  Long-fiber reinforced thermoplastics ("LFT")•  Liquid crystal polymers ("LCP")•  Acetate tow•  Acetate flake•  Acetate film•  Sunett®high intensity sweeteners•  Sorbates•  Qorus™ sweetener system•  Conventional emulsions•  Vinyl acetate ethylene ("VAE") emulsions•  Ethylene vinyl acetate ("EVA") resins and compounds•  Low-density polyethylene resins ("LDPE")•  Acetic acid•  Vinyl acetate monomer ("VAM")•  Acetic anhydride•  Ethanol•  Acetaldehyde•  Ethyl acetate•  Formaldehyde•  Butyl acetateMajor End-UseApplications•  Fuel system components•  Automotive safety       systems•  Conveyor belts•  Battery separators•  Electronics•  Appliances•  Filtrations•  Medical Devices•  Telecommunications•  Filter products•  Beverages•  Confections•  Baked goods•Paints•Coatings•Adhesives•Textiles•Paper finishing•Flexible packaging•Lamination products•Photovoltaic cell systems•Medical tubing•  Automotive parts•  Paints•  Coatings•  Adhesives•  Lubricants•  Pharmaceuticals•  Films•  Textiles•  Inks•  Plasticizers•  Esters•  Solvents

___________________________

(1)Net sales for Consumer Specialties and Acetyl Intermediates exclude inter-segment sales of$4 millionand$448 million, respectively, for the year endedDecember 31, 2013.

In conjunction with our focus on the Celanese brand in 2013, the names of our businesses changed to engineered materials (formerly Advanced Engineered Materials), cellulose derivatives (formerly Acetate Products), food ingredients (formerly Nutrinova), emulsion polymers (formerly Emulsions), EVA polymers (formerly EVA Performance Polymers) and intermediate chemistry (formerly Acetyl Intermediates). There has been no change to the names or composition of our business segments.












Business Segments

Advanced Engineered Materials

Our Advanced Engineered Materials segment includes our engineered materials business, which uses advanced polymer technology to produce a broad portfolio of high performance specialty polymers used in a wide spectrum of applications, including automotive, medical and electronics products, as well as other consumer and industrial applications. As a performance-driven solutions provider, our engineered materials business maintains its competitive advantage with leading technical and application expertise that enables innovation and new product development in concert with its customers. By focusing on new application development for its product lines, it often creates custom formulations to satisfy the technical and processing requirements of its customers' applications. With a strong specification position, our engineered materials business is able to build upon its differentiated polymer processing and material capability to create sustainable value for its high performance polymers. This business segment also includes four strategic affiliates that complement our global reach, improve our ability to capture growth opportunities in emerging economies and position us as a leading participant in the global specialty polymers industry. Together with our strategic affiliates, our engineered materials business is a leading participant in the global specialty polymers industry.

Our specialty polymers have chemical and physical properties that enable them to perform in a variety of conditions. These include enduring elevated temperatures, resisting adverse chemical interactions with solvents and withstanding deformation. POM, PBT and LFT are used in a broad range of performance-demanding applications including automotive components, medical devices, electronics, appliances and industrial applications. GUR®ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene is used in battery separators, conveyor belts, filtration equipment, coatings and medical devices. Primary end uses for LCP are electrical and electronics applications or products. These value-added applications in diverse end-uses support the business' global growth trends.

Value-in-use pricing for most of these products, particularly specialized product grades for targeted applications, generally reflect the value added in complex polymer chemistry, precision formulation and compounding, and the extensive application development services provided.

Our engineered materials business has polymerization, compounding and research and technology centers in Brazil, China, Germany and the US. In 2010, we announced the construction of a new 50,000 ton POM manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia through our Ibn Sina affiliate. This facility is expected to be operational in 2016. In 2011, we opened a state-of-the art POM production facility in Frankfurt Hoechst Industrial Park, Germany. This POM facility is the world's largest and is expected to meet the increased global demand for innovative specialty solutions in polymer-based products.

•Key Products

POM.Polyoxymethylene, also commonly known as polyacetal in the chemical industry, is sold by our engineered materials business under the trademarks Celcon®and Hostaform®. POM is used for mechanical parts in automotive applications, including fuel system components, and in electrical, medical and consumer applications such as drug delivery systems and gears for large appliances. Polyplastics Co., Ltd., our 45%-owned strategic affiliate ("Polyplastics"), and Korea Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd., our 50%-owned strategic affiliate ("KEPCO"), also manufacture POM and other engineering resins in the Asia-Pacific region.

The primary raw material for POM is formaldehyde, which is manufactured from methanol. Our engineered materials business sources formaldehyde in the US from our intermediate chemistry business and manufactures formaldehyde in Germany from purchased methanol.

Ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene.Our ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene products, sold under the trademark GUR®,are highly engineered materials designed for heavy-duty industrial and automotive applications. They are used in items such as industrial conveyor belts, car battery separator panels, as well as specialty medical and consumer applications, such as sports prostheses and equipment. GUR®ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene micro powder grades are used for high-performance filters, membranes, diagnostic devices, coatings and additives for thermoplastics and elastomers. High tenacity fibers based on GUR®ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene are also used in protective ballistic applications. The primary raw material for GUR®ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene is ethylene.

Polyesters.Our products include a series of thermoplastic polyesters including Celanex®PBT, Celanex®PET (polyethylene terephthalate), Thermx®PCT (polycyclohexylene-dimethylene terephthalate) and Vandar®, as well as Riteflex®, a thermoplastic polyester elastomer. They are used in a wide variety of automotive, electrical and consumer applications, including ignition












system parts, radiator grilles, electrical switches, appliance and sensor housings, light emitting diodes ("LEDs") and technical fibers.

LFT.Celstran®, Compel®and Factor®are long-fiber reinforced thermoplastics that impart extra strength and stiffness, making them more suitable for larger parts than conventional thermoplastics. Both products are used in automotive, transportation and industrial applications, such as instrument panels, consoles and front end modules. The primary raw materials for LFT include polypropylene and a variety of fibers such as glass, stainless steel and carbon.

LCP.Liquid crystal polymers, such as Thermx®, Vectra®and Zenite®, are primarily used in electrical and electronics applications for precision parts with thin walls and complex shapes. They are also used in high heat cookware applications. Raw materials for LCP include acetic anhydride, which is sourced from our Acetyl Intermediates segment, and monomers such as hydroxybenzoic acid.

•Geographic Regions

Net sales by destination for the Advanced Engineered Materials segment by geographic region are as follows:Year Ended December 31,201320122011(In $ millions, except percentages)North America48736%46036%44334%Europe and Africa56241%52742%62348%Asia-Pacific25119%22418%18815%South America524%504%443%Total1,352100%1,261100%1,298100%

•Customers

Advanced Engineered Materials' principal customers are original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers serving the automotive, industrial, consumer and medical industries. By collaborating with its customers, our engineered materials business assists in developing and improving specialized applications and systems and offers customers global solutions. Our engineered materials business has long-standing relationships and multi-year arrangements with many of its major customers and utilizes distribution partners to expand its customer base.

•Competition

Advanced Engineered Materials' principal competitors include BASF SE, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, DSM N.V., SABIC Innovative Plastics and Solvay S.A. Other regional competitors include Asahi Kasei Corporation, Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc., Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, L.P., Braskem S.A., Lanxess AG, Teijin Limited, Sumitomo Corporation and Toray Industries, Inc.

Consumer Specialties

The Consumer Specialties segment includes our cellulose derivatives and food ingredients businesses, which serve consumer-driven applications. These businesses deliver growth primarily through manufacturing productivity, geographic expansions and targeting high-value opportunities in diverse applications, and generally are not dependent on gross domestic product.

Our cellulose derivatives business is a leading global producer and supplier of acetate flake, acetate film and acetate tow, primarily used in filter products applications. We also hold an approximately 30% ownership interest in three separate ventures in China that produce acetate flake and acetate tow. China National Tobacco Corporation, a Chinese state-owned tobacco entity, has been our venture partner for over two decades and has driven successful growth in our cellulose derivatives business.

During 2012, the Company introduced CelFX™ matrix technology, which redefines tobacco filtration performance, enabling unique product attributes and innovation, such as increased filter design flexibility and improved constituent reduction. CelFX™ also supports a broad choice of enhancement additives and is engineered to run on existing equipment.












Our cellulose derivatives business has production sites in Belgium, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the US, along with sites at its three cellulose derivatives ventures in China. In November 2012, we ceased manufacturing acetate tow and acetate flake at our Spondon, Derby, United Kingdom site. We will continue to manufacture our Clarifoil®film at this facility.

Our food ingredients business is a leading international supplier of premium quality ingredients for the food and beverage and pharmaceutical industries and is one of the world's largest producers of food protection ingredients, such as potassium sorbates and sorbic acid. The business produces and sells Sunett®(acesulfame potassium), a high intensity sweetener, and the new sweetener system Qorus™, which was launched in 2013. Our food ingredients business' expertise is based on more than sixty years of experience in developing and marketing specialty ingredients to the food and beverage and pharmaceutical industries. While this business has traditionally focused on providing low calorie sweeteners in the beverage industry, it continues to target high-value opportunities in more diverse applications such as oral hygiene, pharmaceuticals, dairy and cereals.

Our food ingredients business has a production facility in Germany, with sales and distribution facilities in all major regions of the world.

•Key Products

Acetate flake, acetate tow and acetate film.Acetate tow is a fiber used primarily in cigarette filters. In order to produce acetate tow, we first produce acetate flake by processing wood pulp with acetic acid and acetic anhydride. Wood pulp generally comes from reforested trees and is purchased externally from a variety of sources, and acetic anhydride is an intermediate chemical that we produce from acetic acid. The acetate flake is then further processed into acetate tow. Acetate flake can also be solvent cast to create a film, which is primarily used in packaging for food and high-end luxury goods.

Sales of acetate tow amounted to16%,15%and14%of our consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively.

Sunett®sweetener.Acesulfame potassium, a high intensity sweetener sold under the trademark Sunett®, is used in a variety of beverages, confections and dairy products throughout the world. Sunett®sweetener is the ideal blending partner for caloric and non-caloric sweeteners and is recognized for its consistent product quality and reliable supply. The primary raw material for Sunett is diketene, which is derived from acetic acid.

Qorus™ sweetener system.Qorus™ was introduced in 2013 to assist food and beverage formulators in achieving their unique taste profile. This product enables the manufacturer to balance taste, without the need to mask certain notes, and ultimately delight the consumer with a pure, authentic taste. The Qorus™ sweetener system is designed for low- to no-calorie carbonated and non-carbonated beverages, flavored waters, energy drinks, milk and dairy products.

Food protection ingredients.Our food protection ingredients, potassium sorbate and sorbic acid (together "sorbates"), are mainly used in foods, beverages and personal care products. Sorbates pricing is extremely sensitive to demand and industry capacity and is not necessarily dependent on the cost of raw materials. The primary raw materials for sorbates are acetic acid, ethylene and potassium hydroxide.

•Geographic Regions

Net sales by destination for the Consumer Specialties segment by geographic region are as follows:Year Ended December 31,201320122011(In $ millions, except percentages)North America20016%20017%18016%Europe and Africa46038%46439%45940%Asia-Pacific48340%45238%45639%South America676%666%635%Total(1)1,210100%1,182100%1,158100%___________________________

(1)Excludes inter-segment sales of$4 million,$4 millionand$3 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively.












•Customers

Acetate tow is sold principally to the major tobacco companies that account for a majority of worldwide cigarette production. Contracts with most of our customers are generally entered into on an annual basis.

Customers of Clarifoil®include printers, carton manufacturers, retailers, packaging buyers, publishers and designers.

Our food ingredients business primarily sells Sunett®sweetener and Qorus™ sweetener system to a limited number of large multinational and regional customers in the food and beverage industry under long-term and annual contracts. Food protection ingredients are primarily sold through regional distributors to small and medium sized customers and directly to large multinational customers in the food industry.

•Competition

Our cellulose derivatives business' principal competitors include Daicel Corporation, Eastman Chemical Company, Solvay S.A. and Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd.

The principal competitors for Sunett®sweetener and Qorus™sweetener system include The NutraSweet Company, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Tate & Lyle PLC. The principal competitors for sorbates include Nantong Acetic Acid Chemical Co., Ltd. and Daicel Corporation.

Industrial Specialties

The Industrial Specialties segment, which includes our emulsion polymers and EVA polymers businesses, is active in every major global industrial sector and serves diverse industrial and consumer end-use applications. These include traditional vinyl-based end uses, such as paints and coatings and adhesives, as well as other unique, high-value end uses including solar cells and medical applications.

Our emulsion polymers business is a leading global producer of vinyl acetate-based emulsions and develops products and application technologies to improve performance, create value and drive innovation in applications such as paints and coatings, adhesives, construction, glass fiber, textiles and paper. The business has production facilities in major global regions and is supported by expert technical service regionally. Our emulsion polymers products are sold under globally and regionally recognized brands including EcoVAE®, Mowilith®, Vinamul®, Celvolit®, BriteCoat®, TufCOR®and Avicor®. Our emulsion polymers business has production facilities in Canada, China, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the US.

Our EVA polymers business is a leading North American manufacturer of a full range of specialty EVA resins and compounds as well as select grades of low-density polyethylene. Sold under the Ateva®and VitalDose®brands, these products are used in many applications, including flexible packaging films, lamination film products, hot melt adhesives, medical products, automotive, carpeting and photovoltaic cells. Our EVA polymers business has a production facility in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

The Industrial Specialties segment builds on our leading acetyl technology. Our Acetyl Intermediates segment produces VAM, a primary raw material for our emulsion polymers and EVA polymers businesses. Ethylene, another key raw material, is purchased externally from a variety of sources.

Our Industrial Specialties businesses have experienced significant growth in Asia, and we have made investments to support continued growth in the region. In 2011, we doubled the VAE emulsions capacity at our integrated chemical complex in Nanjing, China to meet the increased global demand for innovative specialty solutions in vinyl-based emulsions.

In addition to geographic growth, the Industrial Specialties businesses are focused on innovation efforts to increase value. The business segment has successfully launched new innovative products and technologies in non-traditional applications such as medical, carpet, textiles and paper.

•Key Products

Our emulsion polymers business produces conventional vinyl- and acrylate-based emulsions and VAE emulsions. Emulsions are made from VAM, ethylene, acrylate esters and styrene. VAE emulsions are a key component of water-based architectural coatings, adhesives, non-wovens, textiles, glass fiber and other applications.












Our EVA polymers business produces low-density polyethylene and EVA resins and compounds. EVA resins and compounds are produced in high-pressure reactors from ethylene and VAM.

•Geographic Regions

Net sales by destination for the Industrial Specialties segment by geographic region are as follows:Year Ended December 31,201320122011(in $ millions, except percentages)North America44138%47540%49240%Europe and Africa50044%48341%55045%Asia-Pacific19917%21318%16914%South America151%131%121%Total1,155100%1,184100%1,223100%

•Customers

Industrial Specialties' products are sold to a diverse group of regional and multinational customers. Customers of our emulsion polymers business are manufacturers of water-based paints and coatings, adhesives, paper, building and construction products, glass fiber, non-wovens and textiles. Customers of our EVA polymers business are engaged in the manufacture of a variety of products, including hot melt adhesives, automotive components, solar energy products, thermal laminations, flexible and food packaging materials, medical packaging and controlled-release medical devices.

•Competition

Principal competitors of our emulsion polymers business include The Dow Chemical Company, BASF SE, Dairen Chemical Corporation and Wacker Chemie AG.

Principal competitors of our EVA polymers business include E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, ExxonMobil Chemical and Arkema.

Acetyl Intermediates

Our Acetyl Intermediates segment includes our intermediate chemistry business, which produces and supplies acetyl products, including acetic acid, VAM, acetic anhydride and acetate esters. These products are generally used as starting materials for colorants, paints, adhesives, coatings and pharmaceuticals. Our intermediate chemistry business also produces organic solvents and intermediates for pharmaceutical, agricultural and chemical products.

As an industry leader, our intermediate chemistry business has built on its leading technology, advantaged feedstock position and attractive competitive position to drive growth. With decades of experience, advanced proprietary process technology and favorable capital and production costs, we are a leading global producer of acetic acid and VAM. AOPlus®3 technology, introduced in 2011, extends our historical technology advantage and enables us to construct a greenfield acetic acid facility with a capacity of 1.8 million tons at a lower capital cost than our competitors. VAntage®2 technology, also introduced in 2011, could increase VAM capacity by up to 50% to meet growing customer demand globally. We believe our production technology is among the lowest cost in the industry and provides us with global growth opportunities through low cost expansions and a cost advantage over our competitors. Our intermediate chemistry business has production sites in China, Germany, Mexico, Singapore and the US.

Building on our acetic acid technology platform, we developed Celanese TCX®ethanol process technology to supply current and prospective customers with ethanol for industrial purposes and for other potential uses. Industrial ethanol is used in chemical and industrial applications for the manufacture of paints, coatings, inks and pharmaceuticals. This innovative process combines our proprietary and leading acetyl platform with advanced manufacturing technology to produce ethanol from hydrocarbon-sourced feedstocks.

In 2012, we completed construction of a technology development unit for industrial ethanol production at our facility in Clear Lake, Texas, which will allow us to continue the advancement of our acetyl and TCX®technologies. In 2013, we completed












modifications and enhancements to our existing integrated acetyl facility in Nanjing, China to further advance our TCX®technology. The modifications added approximately 275,000 tons of industrial ethanol production capacity.

•Key Products

Acetyl Products.Acetyl products include acetic acid, VAM, acetic anhydride and acetaldehyde. Acetic acid is primarily used to manufacture VAM, purified terephthalic acid and other acetyl derivatives. VAM is used in a variety of adhesives, paints, films, coatings and textiles. Acetic anhydride is a raw material used in the production of cellulose acetate, detergents and pharmaceuticals. Acetaldehyde is a major feedstock for the production of a variety of derivatives, such as pyridines, which are used in agricultural products. We manufacture acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride for our own use, as well as for sale to third parties.

Acetic acid and VAM, our basic acetyl intermediates products, are impacted by global supply and demand fundamentals and can be cyclical in nature. The principal raw materials in these products are carbon monoxide, which we generally purchase under long-term contracts, and methanol and ethylene, which we generally purchase under both long- and short-term contracts. Generally, methanol and ethylene are commodity products available from a wide variety of sources, while carbon monoxide is typically obtained from sources in close proximity.

Sales from acetyl products amounted to32%,32%and34%of our consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively.

Solvents and Derivatives.We manufacture a variety of solvents, formaldehyde and other chemicals, which in turn are used in the manufacture of paints, coatings, adhesives and other products. Many solvents and derivatives products are derived from our production of acetic acid. Primary products are:

•Ethyl acetate, an acetate ester that is a solvent used in coatings, inks and adhesives and in the manufacture of photographic films and coated papers;

•Butyl acetate, an acetate ester that is a solvent used in inks, pharmaceuticals and perfume;

•Formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde and formcels, which are primarily used to produce adhesive resins for plywood, particle board, coatings, POM engineering resins and a compound used in making polyurethane; and

•Other chemicals, such as crotonaldehyde, which are used by our food ingredients business for the production of sorbates, as well as raw materials for the fragrance and food ingredients industry.

Sales from solvents and derivatives products amounted to11%,11%and12%of our consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively.

•Geographic Regions

Net sales by destination for the Acetyl Intermediates segment by geographic region are as follows:Year Ended December 31,201320122011(In $ millions, except percentages)North America70825%69825%71723%Europe and Africa84830%97035%1,11036%Asia-Pacific1,13741%1,02637%1,16638%South America1004%973%903%Total(1)2,793100%2,791100%3,083100%___________________________

(1)Excludes inter-segment sales of$448 million,$440 millionand$468 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively.












•Customers

Our intermediate chemistry business sells its products both directly to customers and through distributors. Acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride are global businesses and each has several large customers, but no individual customer comprises more than 10% of our consolidated net sales. Generally, we supply these global customers under multi-year contracts. Acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride customers produce polymers used in water-based paints, adhesives, paper coatings, polyesters, film modifiers, pharmaceuticals, cellulose acetate and textiles. We have long-standing relationships with most of these customers.

Solvents and derivatives are sold to a diverse group of regional and multinational customers under multi-year contracts and on the basis of long-standing relationships. Solvents and derivatives customers are primarily engaged in the production of paints, coatings and adhesives. We manufacture formaldehyde for our own use as well as for sale to a few regional customers that include manufacturers in the wood products and chemical derivatives industries. The sale of formaldehyde is based on long- and short-term agreements. Specialty solvents are sold globally to a wide variety of customers, primarily in the coatings and resins and the specialty products industries. These products serve global regions in the synthetic lubricant, agrochemical, rubber processing and other specialty chemical areas.

•Competition

Our principal competitors in the Acetyl Intermediates segment include BASF SE, BP PLC, Chang Chun Petrochemical Co., Ltd., Daicel Corporation, The Dow Chemical Company, Eastman Chemical Company, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, LyondellBasell Industries N.V., Nippon Gohsei, Perstorp Inc., Jiangsu Sopo (Group) Co., Ltd., Showa Denko K.K. and Kuraray Co., Ltd.

Other Activities

Other Activities primarily consists of corporate center costs, including financing and administrative activities such as legal, accounting and treasury functions, interest income and expense associated with our financing activities and results of our captive insurance companies. Our two wholly-owned captive insurance companies are a key component of our global risk management program, as well as a form of self-insurance for our liability and workers compensation risks. The captive insurance companies issue insurance policies to our subsidiaries to provide consistent coverage amid fluctuating costs in the insurance market and to lower long-term insurance costs through the reduction of certain fees and expenses. The captive insurance companies retain risk at levels approved by management and obtain reinsurance coverage from third parties to limit the net risk retained. One of the captive insurance companies also insures certain third-party risks. Other Activities also includes the interest cost, expected return on assets and net actuarial gains and losses components of our net periodic benefit cost for our defined benefit pension plans and other post retirement plans, which are not allocated to our business segments.

Strategic Affiliates

Our strategic affiliates represent an important component of our strategy for accelerated growth and global expansion. We have a substantial portfolio of affiliates in various regions, including Asia-Pacific, North America and the Middle East. These affiliates, some of which date back as far as the 1960s, have sizeable operations and are significant within their industries.

Our strategic affiliates have similar growth patterns and business models as our core businesses. With shared characteristics such as products, applications and manufacturing technology, these strategic affiliates complement and extend our technology and specialty materials portfolio. We have historically entered into these investments to gain access to local demand, minimize costs and accelerate growth in areas we believe have significant future business potential. Depending on the level of investment and other factors, we account for our strategic affiliates using either the equity method or cost method of accounting.

Our strategic affiliates contribute substantial sales, earnings and cash flows. During the year endedDecember 31, 2013, our equity method strategic affiliates generated combined sales of $3 billion, resulting in our recording$148 millionof equity in net earnings of affiliates and$121 millionof dividends in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for the year endedDecember 31, 2013.












Our strategic affiliatesas ofDecember 31, 2013are as follows:Location ofHeadquartersOwnershipPartner(s)YearEnteredEquity Method InvestmentsAdvanced Engineered MaterialsNational Methanol CompanySaudiArabia25 %Saudi Basic Industries Corporation/Texas Eastern Arabian Corporation Ltd.1981Korea Engineering Plastics Co., LtdSouthKorea50 %Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc./Mitsubishi Corporation1999Polyplastics Co., Ltd.Japan45 %Daicel Corporation1964Fortron Industries LLCUS50 %Kureha America Inc.1992Cost Method InvestmentsConsumer SpecialtiesKunming Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30 %China National Tobacco Corporation1993Nantong Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China31 %China National Tobacco Corporation1986Zhuhai Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30 %China National Tobacco Corporation1993

National Methanol Company (Ibn Sina).National Methanol Company represents approximately 1% of the world's methanol production capacity and is one of the world's largest producers of methyl tertiary-butyl ether ("MTBE"), a gasoline additive. Its production facilities are located in Saudi Arabia. We indirectly own a 25% interest in Ibn Sina through CTE Petrochemicals Company, a 50%/50% joint venture with Texas Eastern Arabian Corporation Ltd. (which also indirectly owns a 25% interest). The remaining 50% interest in Ibn Sina is held by the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC"). SABIC is responsible for all product marketing. Methanol is a key feedstock for POM production and is produced by our Ibn Sina affiliate which provides an economic hedge against raw material costs in our engineered materials business.

In April 2010, we announced that Ibn Sina will construct a 50,000 ton POM production facility in Saudi Arabia. The new facility will supply POM to support Advanced Engineered Materials' accelerated future growth plans as well as our venture partners' regional business development. Upon successful startup of the POM facility, our indirect economic interest in Ibn Sina will increase from 25% to 32.5%. SABIC's economic interest will remain unchanged.

Korea Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd.KEPCO is the leading producer of POM in South Korea. KEPCO is a venture between Celanese Holdings B.V. (50% ownership and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Celanese GmbH), Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. (40%) and Mitsubishi Corporation (10%). KEPCO has polyacetal production facilities in Ulsan, South Korea, compounding facilities for PBT and nylon in Pyongtaek, South Korea, and participates with Polyplastics and Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. in a world-scale POM facility in Nantong, China.

Polyplastics Co., Ltd.Polyplastics is a leading supplier of engineered plastics and is a venture between Daicel Corporation, Japan (55%) and Ticona LLC (45% ownership and a wholly-owned subsidiary of CNA Holdings LLC). Polyplastics is a manufacturer and/or marketer of POM, LCP and polyphenylene sulfide ("PPS"), with principal production facilities located in Japan and Malaysia.

Fortron Industries LLC.Fortron is a leading global producer of PPS, sold under the Fortron®brand, which is used in a wide variety of automotive and other applications, especially those requiring heat and/or chemical resistance. Fortron is a limited liability company whose members are Ticona Fortron Inc. (50% ownership and a wholly-owned subsidiary of CNA Holdings LLC) and Kureha America Inc. (50% ownership and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kureha Corporation of Japan). Fortron's facility is located in Wilmington, North Carolina. This venture combines the sales, marketing, distribution, compounding and manufacturing expertise of Celanese with the PPS polymer technology expertise of Kureha.

Cellulose derivatives strategic ventures.We hold ownership interest in three separate acetate flake and acetate tow production ventures in China as follows: Nantong Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd. (31%), Kunming Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd. (30%) and Zhuhai Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd. (30%). The China National Tobacco Corporation, the Chinese state-owned tobacco entity, controls the remaining ownership interest in each of these ventures.

Our cellulose derivatives ventures generally fund their operations using operating cash flow and pay dividends based on the ventures' performance for the preceding year. Prior to 2013, the ventures paid dividends during the second quarter of each fiscal












year. Beginning in 2013, the ventures pay dividends on a quarterly basis. In2013,2012and2011, we received cash dividends of$92 million,$83 millionand$78 million, respectively.

In 2012 our Nantong venture completed an expansion of its acetate flake and acetate tow capacity, each by 30,000 tons. We made contributions of $29 million from 2009 through 2012 related to the capacity expansion in Nantong. Similar expansions since the ventures were formed have led to earnings growth and increased dividends for the Company.

According to the Euromonitor database services, China is estimated to have had a 42% share of the world's 2012 cigarette consumption. Cigarette consumption in China is expected to grow at a rate of 1.9% per year from 2012 through 2017. Combined, these ventures are a leader in Chinese domestic acetate production and we believe we are well positioned to supply Chinese cigarette producers.

Although our ownership interest in each of our cellulose derivatives ventures exceeds 20%, we account for these investments using the cost method of accounting because we determined that we cannot exercise significant influence over these entities due to local government investment in and influence over these entities, limitations on our involvement in the day-to-day operations and the present inability of the entities to provide timely financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("US GAAP").

•Other Equity Method Investments

InfraServs.We hold indirect ownership interests in several German InfraServ Groups that own and develop industrial parks and provide on-site general and administrative support to tenants. Our ownership interest in the equity investments in InfraServ affiliates are as follows:As of December 31, 2013(In percentages)InfraServ GmbH & Co. Gendorf KG39InfraServ GmbH & Co. Knapsack KG27InfraServ GmbH & Co. Hoechst KG32

Research and Development

Our businesses are innovation-oriented and conduct research and development activities to develop new, and optimize existing, production technologies, as well as to develop commercially viable new products and applications. We consider the amounts spent during each of the last three fiscal years on research and development activities to be sufficient to execute our current strategic initiatives.

Intellectual Property

We attach importance to protecting our intellectual property, including through patents, trademarks, copyrights and product designs in order to preserve our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Patents may cover processes, products, intermediate products and product uses. We also seek to register trademarks as a means of protecting the brand names of our Company and products. We protect our intellectual property against infringement and also seek to register design protection where appropriate.

Patents.In most industrial countries, patent protection exists for new substances and formulations, as well as for certain unique applications and production processes. However, we do business in regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. We maintain strict information security policies and procedures wherever we do business. Such information security policies and procedures include data encryption, controls over the disclosure and safekeeping of confidential information, as well as employee awareness training. Moreover, we monitor competitive developments and defend against infringements on our intellectual property rights.

Trademarks.AOPlus®, AOPlus®2, AOPlus®3, Ateva®, Avicor®, BriteCoat®, Celanese®, Celanex®, Celcon®, CelFX™, Celstran®, Celvolit®, Clarifoil®, Compel®, Duroset®, EcoVAE®, Factor®, Fortron®, GUR®, Hostaform®, Impet®, Mowilith®, Nutrinova®, Qorus™, Riteflex®, Sunett®, TCX™, Thermx®, TufCOR®, Vandar®, VAntage®, VAntagePlus™, VAntage®2, Vectra®, Vinamul®, VitalDose®, Zenite®and certain other branded products and services named in this document are registered or reserved trademarks or service marks owned or licensed by Celanese. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive or comprehensive list of all registered or reserved trademarks and service marks owned or licensed by Celanese. Fortron®is a registered trademark of Fortron Industries LLC.












Neither Celanese nor any particular business segment is materially dependent upon any one patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret.

Environmental and Other Regulation

Matters pertaining to environmental and other regulations are discussed inItem 1A. Risk Factors,Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Accounting for Commitments and Contingencies, andNote 15 - EnvironmentalandNote 23 - Commitments and Contingenciesin the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Employees

The approximate number of employees employed by Celanese on a continuing basis throughout the world is as follows:Employees as ofDecember 31, 2013North AmericaUS2,800Canada240Mexico670Total3,710EuropeGermany1,550Other Europe1,070Total2,620Asia1,030Rest of World70Total7,430

Backlog

We do not consider backlog to be a significant indicator of the level of future sales activity. In general, we do not manufacture our products against a backlog of orders. Production and inventory levels are based on the level of incoming orders as well as projections of future demand. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to understanding our overall business and should not be considered a reliable indicator of our ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance.

Available Information — Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Filings and Corporate Governance Materials

We make available free of charge, through our internet website (http://www.celanese.com), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as ownership reports on Form 3 and Form 4, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. References to our website in this report are provided as a convenience, and the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Celanese Corporation, that electronically file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

We also make available free of charge, through our website, our Corporate Governance Guidelines of our Board of Directors and the charters of each of the committees of the Board.












