Item 1.Business

Basis of Presentation

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the term "Celanese" refers to Celanese Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The terms "Company," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Celanese and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The term "Celanese US" refers to the Company's subsidiary, Celanese US Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and not its subsidiaries.

Industry

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes industry data obtained from industry publications and surveys as well as our own internal company surveys. Third-party industry publications, surveys and forecasts generally state that the information contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable.

Overview

We are a global technology and specialty materials company. We are one of the world's largest producers of acetyl products, which are intermediate chemicals, for nearly all major industries, as well as a leading global producer of high performance engineered polymers that are used in a variety of high-value applications. As a recognized innovator in the chemicals industry, we engineer and manufacture a wide variety of products essential to everyday living. Our broad product portfolio serves a diverse set of end-use applications including paints and coatings, textiles, automotive applications, consumer and medical applications, performance industrial applications, filtration applications, paper and packaging, chemical additives, construction, consumer and industrial adhesives, and food and beverage applications. Our products enjoy leading global positions due to our large global production capacity, operating efficiencies, proprietary production technology and competitive cost structures.

Our large and diverse global customer base primarily consists of major companies in a broad array of industries. We hold geographically balanced global positions and participate in diversified end-use applications. We combine a demonstrated track record of execution, strong performance built on shared principles and objectives, and a clear focus on growth and value creation. Known for operational excellence and execution of our business strategies, we deliver value to customers around the globe with best-in-class technologies and solutions.

Celanese's history began in 1918, the year that its predecessor company, The American Cellulose & Chemical Manufacturing Company, was incorporated. The company, which manufactured cellulose acetate, was founded by Swiss brothers Drs. Camille and Henri Dreyfus. Since that time, the Company has transformed into a leading global technology and specialty materials company. The current Celanese was incorporated in 2005 under the laws of the State of Delaware and is a US-based public company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol CE.

Headquartered in Irving, Texas, our operations are primarily located in North America, Europe and Asia and consist of28global production facilities, and an additional8strategic affiliate production facilities.As of December 31, 2014, we employed7,468people worldwide.











Business Segment Overview

We operate principally through four business segments: Advanced Engineered Materials, Consumer Specialties, Industrial Specialties and Acetyl Intermediates. Due to our geographic breadth, our net sales are balanced across global regions. SeeBusiness Segmentsbelow andNote 26 - Segment Informationin the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.

Each business segment's net sales to external customers for the year ended

December 31, 2014

, as well as each business segment's major products and end-use applications are as follows:

AdvancedEngineered MaterialsConsumer SpecialtiesIndustrial SpecialtiesAcetyl Intermediates(In $ millions)2014 Net Sales(1)1,4591,1581,2242,961Key Products•  Polyoxymethylene ("POM")•  Ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene ("UHMW-PE")•  Polybutylene terephthalate ("PBT")•  Long-fiber reinforced thermoplastics ("LFRT")•  Liquid crystal polymers ("LCP")•  Acetate tow•  Acetate flake•  Acetate film•  High intensity sweeteners•  Potassium sorbate•  Sorbic acid•  Sweetener system•  Conventional emulsions•  Vinyl acetate ethylene ("VAE") emulsions•  Ethylene vinyl acetate ("EVA") resins and compounds•  Low-density polyethylene resins ("LDPE")•  Acetic acid•  Vinyl acetate monomer ("VAM")•  Acetic anhydride•  Acetaldehyde•  Ethyl acetate•  Formaldehyde•  Butyl acetate•  EthanolMajor End-UseApplications•  Fuel system components•  Automotive safety       systems•  Medical applications•  Industrial products•  Battery separators•  Consumer electronics•  Appliances•  Filtration equipment•  Telecommunications•  Low-friction and low-wear grade acetal copolymer•  Filtration applications•  Films•  Flexible packaging•  Beverages•  Confections•  Baked goods•Paints•Coatings•Adhesives•Textiles•Paper finishing•Flexible packaging•Lamination products•Medical tubing•  Automotive parts•  Paints•  Coatings•  Adhesives•  Lubricants•  Pharmaceuticals•  Films•  Textiles•  Inks•  Plasticizers•  Solvents

___________________________

(1)Net sales for Consumer Specialties and Acetyl Intermediates exclude intersegment sales of$2 millionand$532 million, respectively, for the year endedDecember 31, 2014.











Business Segments

Advanced Engineered Materials

Our Advanced Engineered Materials segment includes our engineered materials business and certain strategic affiliates. Our engineered materials business uses advanced polymer technology to produce a broad portfolio of high performance specialty polymers used in a wide spectrum of applications, including automotive, medical and electronics, as well as other consumer and industrial applications. As a performance-driven solutions provider, our engineered materials business maintains its competitive advantage with leading technical and application expertise that enables innovation and new product development in concert with its customers. By focusing on new application development for its product lines, it often creates custom formulations to satisfy the technical and processing requirements of its customers' applications. A significant portion of our engineered materials products are specified by customers due to our differentiated polymer processing and material capability which creates sustainable value for our high performance polymers. This business segment also includes four strategic affiliates that complement our global reach, improve our ability to capture growth opportunities in emerging economies and positions us as a leading participant in the global specialty polymers industry.

Our specialty polymers have differentiated chemical and physical properties that enable them to perform in a variety of conditions. These include enduring elevated temperatures, resisting adverse chemical interactions and withstanding deformation. POM, PBT and LFRT are used in a broad range of performance-demanding applications including fuel system components, automotive safety systems, consumer electronics, appliances, industrial products and medical applications. UHMW-PE is used in battery separators, industrial products, filtration equipment, coatings and medical applications. Primary end uses for LCP are electrical applications or products and consumer electronics. These value-added applications in diverse end-uses support the business' global growth objectives.

Value-in-use pricing for most of these products, particularly specialized product grades for targeted applications, generally reflect the value added in complex polymer chemistry, precision formulation and compounding, and the extensive application development services provided.

In 2014, we introduced several differentiated polymer technologies that broaden our access to the utility industry, the oil and gas industry, original equipment manufacturers and companies that enhance supply chain efficiency. These include composite technologies for the utility industry that deliver greater reliability, capacity and performance for utility transmission lines and anti-counterfeiting technologies that help original equipment manufacturers and suppliers ensure products contain components and parts that meet their specifications. We also announced the launch of a uniquely low-friction and low-wear grade of acetal copolymer enabling production of injection molded parts for industrial products and automotive and consumer applications.

Our engineered materials business has operations including polymerization, compounding, research and development, and customer technology centers in Brazil, China, Germany, South Korea and the US. In 2010, we announced the construction of a new 50,000 ton POM manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia through our Ibn Sina affiliate. This facility is expected to be completed in 2016. In 2014, we expanded our compounding capabilities at our integrated chemical complex in Nanjing, China, to include polyphenylene sulfide ("PPS"), which is used to replace metals and thermosets in applications spanning the automotive, electronics and aerospace industries. We also announced the expansion of our Florence, Kentucky facility to add compounding process lines to support demand. The unit is expected to be operational in the second quarter of 2015.

In October 2014, we announced the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Cool Polymers, Inc., based in North Kingstown, Rhode Island. The acquisition will accelerate our growth into thermally conductive polymers by building on Cool Polymers, Inc.'s polymer formulation expertise, application development capabilities and strong product portfolio.

•Key Products

POM.Commonly known as polyacetal in the chemical industry, POM is sold by our engineered materials business under the trademarks Celcon®and Hostaform®. POM is used for diverse end-use applications in the automotive, industrial, consumer and medical industries. These applications include mechanical parts in automotive fuel system components and window lift systems, water handling, conveyor belts, sprinkler systems, drug delivery systems and gears in large and small home appliances.

We continue to innovate and broaden the portfolio of Celcon®and Hostaform®in order to support the industry needs for higher performing polyacetal. We have expanded our portfolio to include products with higher impact and stiffness, low emissions, improved wear and enhanced appearance such as laser marking and metallic effects.











Polyplastics Co., Ltd., our 45%-owned strategic affiliate ("Polyplastics"), and Korea Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd., our 50%-owned strategic affiliate ("KEPCO"), also manufacture POM and other engineering resins in the Asia-Pacific region.

The primary raw material for POM is formaldehyde, which is manufactured from methanol. Raw materials are sourced from internal production and from third parties, generally through long-term contracts.

UHMW-PE.Celanese is the global leader in UHMW-PE products which are sold under the trademark GUR®. Theyare highly engineered thermoplastics designed for a variety of industrial, automotive, consumer and medical applications. Primary applications for the material include lead acid battery separators, heavy machine components, lithium ion separator membranes, and noise and vibration dampening tapes. Several specialty grades are also produced for applications in high performance filtration equipment, ballistic fibers, thermoplastic and elastomeric additives, as well as medical implants. The primary raw material for GUR®UHMW-PE is ethylene.

Polyesters.Our products include a series of thermoplastic polyesters including Celanex®PBT, Celanex®PET (polyethylene terephthalate) and Thermx®PCT (polycyclohexylene-dimethylene terephthalate), as well as Riteflex®, a thermoplastic polyester elastomer. These products are used in a wide variety of automotive, electrical and consumer applications, including ignition system parts, radiator grilles, electrical switches, appliance and sensor housings, light emitting diodes and technical fibers.

LFRT.Celstran®and Factor®, our LFRT products,impart extra strength and stiffness, making them more suitable for larger parts than conventional thermoplastics. These products are used in automotive, transportation and industrial applications, such as instrument panels, consoles and front end modules. The primary raw materials for LFRT include polypropylene and a variety of fibers such as glass, stainless steel and carbon. LFRTs meet a wide range of end-user requirements and are excellent candidates for metal replacement where they provide the required structural integrity with significant weight reduction, corrosion resistance and the potential to lower manufacturing costs.

LCP.Vectra®and Zenite®, our LCP brands, are primarily used in electrical and electronics applications for precision parts with thin walls and complex shapes. They are also used in high heat cookware applications. Raw materials for LCP include acetic anhydride, which is sourced from our Acetyl Intermediates segment, and monomers, such as hydroxybenzoic acid.

•Geographic Regions

Net sales by destination for the Advanced Engineered Materials segment by geographic region are as follows:Year Ended December 31,201420132012(In $ millions, except percentages)North America50935%48736%46036%Europe and Africa61742%57542%53843%Asia-Pacific28420%23818%21317%South America493%524%504%Total1,459100%1,352100%1,261100%

•Customers

Advanced Engineered Materials' principal customers are original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers serving the automotive, medical, industrial and consumer industries. By collaborating with our customers, our engineered materials business assists in developing and improving specialized applications and systems and offers customers global solutions. Our engineered materials business has long-standing relationships and multi-year arrangements with many of its major customers and utilizes distribution partners to expand its customer base.

•Competition

Advanced Engineered Materials' principal competitors include BASF SE, DSM N.V., E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, SABIC Innovative Plastics and Solvay S.A. Other regional competitors include Asahi Kasei Corporation, Braskem S.A., Lanxess AG, Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc., Sumitomo Corporation, Teijin Limited and Toray Industries, Inc.











Consumer Specialties

The Consumer Specialties segment includes our cellulose derivatives and food ingredients businesses, which serve consumer-driven applications. These businesses deliver growth primarily through manufacturing productivity, geographic expansions and targeting high-value opportunities, and generally are not dependent on gross domestic product.

Our cellulose derivatives business is a leading global producer and supplier of acetate flake, acetate film and acetate tow, primarily used in filter products applications. We also hold an approximately 30% ownership interest in three separate ventures in China that produce acetate flake and acetate tow. China National Tobacco Corporation, a Chinese state-owned tobacco entity, has been our venture partner for over two decades and has driven successful growth in our cellulose derivatives business. Our cellulose derivatives business has production sites in Belgium, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the US, along with sites at our three cellulose derivatives ventures in China.

In 2014, we commercially launched our CelFX™ technology for the Japanese market. CelFX™ combines our proprietary binder and carbon to create a unique construction which allows concentrated filtration while maintaining full air flow. The CelFX™ matrix technology redefines tobacco filtration performance, enabling unique product attributes and innovation, such as increased filter design flexibility and improved constituent reduction. CelFX™ also supports a broad choice of enhancement additives.

In 2014, we announced a new proprietary formulation of Clarifoil®film to be used as an anti-fog film for applications on glass and plastic. Our proprietary film allows freezer manufacturers to eliminate the existing heating components in freezer doors and provides a film that is more resilient to scratches than what is currently in use.

Our food ingredients business is a leading global supplier of premium quality ingredients for the food and beverage and pharmaceutical industries and is a leading producer of food protection ingredients, such as potassium sorbate and sorbic acid. Our food ingredients business' expertise is based on more than fifty years of experience in developing and marketing specialty ingredients to the food and beverage and pharmaceutical industries.

Our food ingredients business has a production facility in Germany, with sales and distribution facilities in all major regions of the world.

•Key Products

Acetate flake, acetate tow and acetate film.Acetate tow is a fiber used primarily in cigarette filters. In order to produce acetate tow, we first produce acetate flake by processing wood pulp with acetic acid and acetic anhydride. Wood pulp generally comes from reforested trees and is purchased externally from a variety of sources, and acetic anhydride is an intermediate chemical that we produce from acetic acid in our Acetyl Intermediates segment. Acetate flake is then further processed into acetate tow. Acetate flake can also be a solvent cast to create a film, which is primarily used in packaging for food and high-end luxury goods, as well as other applications such as anti-fog films.

Sales of acetate tow amounted to14%,16%and15%of our consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012, respectively.

Sunett®sweetener.Acesulfame potassium ("Ace-K"), a non-nutritive high intensity sweetener sold under the trademark Sunett®, is used in a variety of beverages, confections and dairy products throughout the world. Sunett®sweetener is the ideal blending partner for caloric and non-caloric sweeteners as it balances the sweetness profile. It is recognized in the food industry for its consistent product quality and reliable supply. The primary raw material for Sunett is diketene, which is derived from acetic acid.

Qorus™ sweetener system.The Qorus™ sweetener system was introduced in 2013 to assist food and beverage formulators in achieving their unique taste profile. This product enables the manufacturer to balance taste, without the need to mask certain notes, and ultimately provide the consumer with a pure, authentic taste. The Qorus™ sweetener system is designed for low- to no-calorie carbonated and non-carbonated beverages, flavored waters, energy drinks, milk and dairy products.

Food protection ingredients.Our food protection ingredients, potassium sorbate and sorbic acid, are mainly used in foods, beverages and personal care products. Pricing is extremely sensitive to demand and industry capacity and is not necessarily dependent on the cost of raw materials. The primary raw materials are acetic acid, ethylene and potassium hydroxide.











•Geographic Regions

Net sales by destination for the Consumer Specialties segment by geographic region are as follows:Year Ended December 31,201420132012(In $ millions, except percentages)North America19517%20417%20317%Europe and Africa54948%59249%57248%Asia-Pacific35230%35129%34429%South America625%635%636%Total(1)1,158100%1,210100%1,182100%___________________________

(1)Excludes intersegment sales of$2 million,$4 millionand$4 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012, respectively.

•Customers

Acetate tow is sold principally to the major tobacco companies that account for a majority of worldwide cigarette production. Contracts with most of our customers are generally entered into on an annual basis.

Customers of Clarifoil®film include printers, carton manufacturers, retailers, packaging buyers, publishers, designers and freezer door manufacturers.

Our food ingredients business primarily sells Sunett®sweetener to a limited number of large multinational and regional customers and the Qorus™ sweetener system to regional customers in the food and beverage industry under long-term and annual contracts. Food protection ingredients are primarily sold through regional distributors to small and medium sized customers and directly to large multinational customers in the food industry.

•Competition

Our cellulose derivatives business' principal competitors include Daicel Corporation, Eastman Chemical Company, Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd and Solvay S.A.

Our principal competitors for our Ace-K based sweeteners, Sunett®and Qorus™, are Anhui Jinhe Industrial Co., Ltd. and Suzhou Hope Technology Co., Ltd. The European Commission has instituted a dumping investigation into the sales into the European Union of Ace-K produced in China. The dumping of Ace-K from China has led to significantly lower sales and pricing for the Sunett®business.

Our Ace-K based sweetener systems also compete with other high-intensity sweeteners, notably aspartame produced by Ajinomoto Co. Inc. and The NutraSweet Company, and sucralose produced by Tate & Lyle. Our principal competitors for potassium sorbate and sorbic acid include Daicel Corporation and Nantong Acetic Acid Chemical Co., Ltd.

Industrial Specialties

The Industrial Specialties segment, which includes our emulsion polymers and EVA polymers businesses, is active in every major global industrial sector and serves diverse industrial and consumer end-use applications. These include traditional vinyl-based end uses, such as paints and coatings and adhesives, as well as other unique, high-value end uses including flexible packaging, thermal laminations, wire and cable, compounds and medical tubing.

Our emulsion polymers business is a leading global producer of vinyl acetate-based emulsions and develops products and application technologies to improve performance, create value and drive innovation in applications such as paints and coatings, adhesives, construction, glass fiber, textiles and paper. The emulsion polymers business has production facilities in Canada, China, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the US and is supported by expert technical service regionally. Our emulsion polymers products are sold under globally and regionally recognized brands including EcoVAE®, Mowilith®, Vinamul®, Celvolit®, Duroset®, TufCOR®and Avicor®.











Our EVA polymers business is a leading North American manufacturer of a full range of specialty EVA resins and compounds as well as select grades of low-density polyethylene. Sold under the Ateva®and VitalDose®brands, these products are used in many applications, including flexible packaging films, lamination film products, hot melt adhesives, medical products, automotive parts and carpeting. Our EVA polymers business has a production facility in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

The Industrial Specialties segment builds on our leading acetyl technology. Our Acetyl Intermediates segment produces VAM, a primary raw material for our emulsion polymers and EVA polymers businesses. Ethylene, another key raw material, is purchased externally from a variety of sources.

Our emulsion polymers business has experienced significant growth in Asia, and we have made investments to support continued growth in the region. In 2014, we announced our intent to construct a VAE emulsions unit in Southeast Asia. The unit is expected to begin production by the end of 2016.

In addition to geographic growth, the Industrial Specialties businesses are focused on innovation efforts to increase value. The business segment has successfully launched new innovative products and technologies in non-traditional applications such as medical, carpet and paper.

•Key Products

Our emulsion polymers business produces conventional vinyl- and acrylate-based emulsions and VAE emulsions. Emulsions are made from VAM, ethylene, acrylate esters and styrene. VAE emulsions are a key component of water-based architectural coatings, adhesives, non-wovens, textiles, glass fiber and other applications.

Our EVA polymers business produces low-density polyethylene, EVA resins and compounds. Low-density polyethylene is produced in high-pressure reactors from ethylene, while EVA resins and compounds are produced in high-pressure reactors from ethylene and VAM.

•Geographic Regions

Net sales by destination for the Industrial Specialties segment by geographic region are as follows:Year Ended December 31,201420132012(In $ millions, except percentages)North America46138%44138%47540%Europe and Africa56246%52045%50242%Asia-Pacific18115%17916%19417%South America201%151%131%Total1,224100%1,155100%1,184100%

•Customers

Industrial Specialties' products are sold to a diverse group of regional and multinational customers. Customers of our emulsion polymers business are manufacturers of water-based paints and coatings, adhesives, paper, building and construction products, glass fiber, non-wovens and textiles. Customers of our EVA polymers business are engaged in the manufacture of a variety of products, including hot melt adhesives, automotive components, thermal laminations, flexible and food packaging materials, medical packaging and controlled-release medical devices.

•Competition

Principal competitors of our emulsion polymers business include BASF SE, Dairen Chemical Corporation, The Dow Chemical Company and Wacker Chemie AG.

Principal competitors of our EVA polymers business include Arkema, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and ExxonMobil Chemical.











Acetyl Intermediates

Our Acetyl Intermediates segment includes our intermediate chemistry business, which produces and supplies acetyl products, including acetic acid, VAM, acetic anhydride and acetate esters. These products are generally used as starting materials for colorants, paints, adhesives, coatings and pharmaceuticals. Our intermediate chemistry business also produces organic solvents and intermediates for pharmaceutical, agricultural and chemical products.

As an industry leader, our intermediate chemistry business has built on its leading technology, advantaged feedstock position and attractive competitive position to drive growth. With decades of experience, advanced proprietary process technology and favorable capital and production costs, we are a leading global producer of acetic acid and VAM. AOPlus®3 technology extends our historical technology advantage and enables us to construct a greenfield acetic acid facility with a capacity of 1.8 million tons at a lower capital cost than our competitors. Our VAntage®2 technology could increase VAM capacity by up to 50% to meet growing customer demand globally. We believe our production technology is among the lowest cost in the industry and provides us with global growth opportunities through low cost expansions and a cost advantage over our competitors. In addition, we have focused in recent years on enhancing our ability to drive incremental value through our global production network as well as proactively managing the intermediate chemistry business in response to trade flows and prevailing industry trends. Our intermediate chemistry business has production sites in China, Germany, Mexico, Singapore and the US.

Building on our acetic acid technology platform, we developed Celanese TCX®ethanol process technology to supply current and prospective customers with ethanol for industrial purposes and for other potential uses such as fuel applications. Industrial ethanol is used in chemical and industrial applications for the manufacture of paints, coatings, inks and pharmaceuticals. This innovative process combines our proprietary and leading acetyl platform with advanced manufacturing technology to produce ethanol from hydrocarbon-sourced feedstocks. We are currently producing industrial ethanol at our integrated acetyl facility in Nanjing, China.

In 2013, we signed separate Memorandums of Understanding ("MOUs") with PetroChina Company Limited and Pertamina, the state-owned energy company of the Republic of Indonesia, to advance the development of fuel ethanol opportunities in China and Indonesia, respectively, utilizing our TCX®technology. In 2014, we signed an MOU with Indian Oil Corporation to explore the potential of a joint investment in a fuel ethanol plant to be built in India, based on our TCX®technology.

•Key Products

Acetyl Products.Acetyl products include acetic acid, VAM, acetic anhydride and acetaldehyde. Acetic acid is primarily used to manufacture VAM, purified terephthalic acid and other acetyl derivatives. VAM is used in a variety of adhesives, paints, films, coatings and textiles. Acetic anhydride is a raw material used in the production of cellulose acetate, detergents and pharmaceuticals. Acetaldehyde is a major feedstock for the production of a variety of derivatives, such as pyridines, which are used in agricultural products. We manufacture acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride for our own use in producing downstream, value-added products, as well as for sale to third parties.

Acetic acid and VAM, our basic acetyl intermediates products, are impacted by global supply and demand fundamentals and can be cyclical in nature. The principal raw materials in these products are carbon monoxide, which we generally purchase under long-term contracts, and methanol and ethylene, which we generally purchase under both long- and short-term contracts. Generally, methanol and ethylene are commodity products available from a wide variety of sources, while carbon monoxide is typically obtained from sources in close proximity.

In February 2014, we formed a joint venture, Fairway Methanol LLC ("Fairway"), with Mitsui & Co., Ltd., of Tokyo, Japan, in which we own 50% of Fairway, for the production of methanol at our integrated chemical plant in Clear Lake, Texas. The planned methanol unit will utilize natural gas in the US Gulf Coast region as a feedstock and will benefit from the existing infrastructure at our Clear Lake facility. The planned methanol unit will have an annual capacity of1.3 milliontons and is expected to be operational in the second half of 2015.

Sales from acetyl products amounted to33%,32%and32%of our consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012, respectively.

Solvents and Derivatives.We manufacture a variety of solvents, formaldehyde and other chemicals, which in turn are used in the manufacture of paints, coatings, adhesives and other products. Many solvents and derivatives products are derived from our production of acetic acid. Primary products are:

•Ethyl acetate, an acetate ester that is a solvent used in coatings, inks and adhesives and in the manufacture of photographic films and coated papers;











•Butyl acetate, an acetate ester that is a solvent used in inks, pharmaceuticals and perfume;

•Formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde and formcels, which are primarily used to produce adhesive resins for plywood, particle board, coatings, POM engineering resins and a compound used in making polyurethane; and

•Other chemicals, such as crotonaldehyde, which are used by our food ingredients business for the production of sorbic acid and potassium sorbates, as well as raw materials for the fragrance and food ingredients industry.

Sales from solvents and derivatives products amounted to11%,11%and11%of our consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012, respectively.

•Geographic Regions

Net sales by destination for the Acetyl Intermediates segment by geographic region are as follows:Year Ended December 31,201420132012(In $ millions, except percentages)North America74325%70825%69825%Europe and Africa90531%89432%1,01036%Asia-Pacific1,21041%1,09139%98635%South America1033%1004%974%Total(1)2,961100%2,793100%2,791100%___________________________

(1)Excludes intersegment sales of$532 million,$448 millionand$440 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012, respectively.

•Customers

Our intermediate chemistry business sells its products both directly to customers and through distributors. Acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride are global businesses and we generally supply our customers under multi-year contracts. Acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride customers produce polymers used in water-based paints, adhesives, paper coatings, polyesters, film modifiers, pharmaceuticals, cellulose acetate and textiles. We have long-standing relationships with most of these customers.

Solvents and derivatives are sold to a diverse group of regional and multinational customers under multi-year contracts and on the basis of long-standing relationships. Solvents and derivatives customers are primarily engaged in the production of paints, coatings and adhesives. We manufacture formaldehyde for our own use as well as for sale to a few regional customers that include manufacturers in the wood products and chemical derivatives industries. The sale of formaldehyde is based on long- and short-term agreements. Specialty solvents are sold globally to a wide variety of customers, primarily in the coatings and resins and the specialty products industries. These products serve global regions in the synthetic lubricant, agrochemical, rubber processing and other specialty chemical areas.

•Competition

Our principal competitors in the Acetyl Intermediates segment include BASF SE, BP PLC, Chang Chun Petrochemical Co., Ltd., Daicel Corporation, The Dow Chemical Company, Eastman Chemical Company, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Jiangsu Sopo (Group) Co., Ltd., Kuraray Co., Ltd., LyondellBasell Industries N.V., Nippon Gohsei, Perstorp Inc. and Showa Denko K.K.

Other Activities

Other Activities primarily consists of corporate center costs, including financing and administrative activities such as legal, accounting and treasury functions, interest income and expense associated with our financing activities and results of our captive insurance companies. Our two wholly-owned captive insurance companies are a key component of our global risk management program, as well as a form of self-insurance for our liability and workers compensation risks. The captive insurance companies retain risk at levels approved by management and obtain reinsurance coverage from third parties to limit the net risk retained. One of the captive insurance companies also insures certain third-party risks. Other Activities also











includes the interest cost, expected return on assets and net actuarial gains and losses components of our net periodic benefit cost for our defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans, which are not allocated to our business segments.

Strategic Affiliates

Our strategic affiliates represent an important component of our strategy for accelerated growth and global expansion. We have a substantial portfolio of affiliates in various regions, including Asia-Pacific, North America and the Middle East. These affiliates, some of which date back as far as the 1960s, have sizeable operations and are significant within their industries.

Our strategic affiliates have similar business models as our core businesses. With shared characteristics such as products, applications and manufacturing technology, these strategic affiliates complement and extend our technology and specialty materials portfolio. We have historically entered into these investments to gain access to local demand, minimize costs and accelerate growth in areas we believe have significant future business potential. Depending on the level of investment and other factors, we account for our strategic affiliates using either the equity method or cost method of accounting.

Our strategic affiliates contribute substantial earnings and cash flows to Celanese. During the year endedDecember 31, 2014, our equity method strategic affiliates generated combined sales of $2.9 billion, resulting in our recording$161 millionof equity in net earnings of affiliates and$111 millionof dividends.

Our strategic affiliatesas ofDecember 31, 2014are as follows:Location ofHeadquartersOwnershipPartner(s)YearEnteredEquity Method InvestmentsAdvanced Engineered MaterialsNational Methanol CompanySaudiArabia25 %Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (50%);Texas Eastern Arabian Corporation Ltd. (25%)1981Korea EngineeringPlastics Co., LtdSouthKorea50 %Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. (40%);Mitsubishi Corporation (10%)1999Polyplastics Co., Ltd.Japan45 %Daicel Corporation (55%)1964Fortron Industries LLCUS50 %Kureha America Inc. (50%)1992Cost Method InvestmentsConsumer SpecialtiesKunming Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30 %China National Tobacco Corporation (70%)1993Nantong Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China31 %China National Tobacco Corporation (69%)1986Zhuhai Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30 %China National Tobacco Corporation (70%)1993

National Methanol Company (Ibn Sina).National Methanol Company represents approximately 1% of the world's methanol production capacity and is one of the world's largest producers of methyl tertiary-butyl ether, a gasoline additive. Its production facilities are located in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC") is responsible for all product marketing. Methanol is a key feedstock for POM production and is produced by our Ibn Sina affiliate which provides an economic hedge against raw material costs in our engineered materials business.

Ibn Sina is currently constructing a 50,000 ton POM production facility in Saudi Arabia. The new facility will supply POM to support Advanced Engineered Materials' future growth plans as well as our venture partners' regional business development. Upon successful startup of the POM facility, our indirect economic interest in Ibn Sina will increase from 25% to 32.5%. SABIC's economic interest will remain unchanged.

Korea Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd.KEPCO is the leading producer of POM in South Korea. KEPCO has polyacetal production facilities in Ulsan, South Korea, compounding facilities for PBT and nylon in Pyongtaek, South Korea, and participates with Polyplastics and Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. in a world-scale POM facility in Nantong, China.

Polyplastics Co., Ltd.Polyplastics is a leading supplier of engineered plastics. Polyplastics is a manufacturer and/or marketer of POM, LCP and PPS, with principal production facilities located in Japan and Malaysia.











Fortron Industries LLC.Fortron is a leading global producer of PPS, sold under the Fortron®brand, which is used in a wide variety of automotive and other applications, especially those requiring heat and/or chemical resistance. Fortron's facility is located in Wilmington, North Carolina. This venture combines the sales, marketing, distribution, compounding and manufacturing expertise of Celanese with the PPS polymer technology expertise of Kureha America Inc.

Cellulose derivatives strategic ventures.Our cellulose derivatives ventures generally fund their operations using operating cash flow and pay dividends based on each ventures' performance in the preceding year. In2014,2013and2012, we received cash dividends of$115 million,$92 millionand$83 million, respectively.

Although our ownership interest in each of our cellulose derivatives ventures exceeds 20%, we account for these investments using the cost method of accounting because we determined that we cannot exercise significant influence over these entities due to local government investment in and influence over these entities, limitations on our involvement in the day-to-day operations and the present inability of the entities to provide timely financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("US GAAP").

•Other Equity Method Investments

InfraServs.We hold indirect ownership interests in several German InfraServ Groups that own and develop industrial parks and provide on-site general and administrative support to tenants. Our ownership interest in the equity investments in InfraServ affiliates are as follows:As of December 31, 2014(In percentages)InfraServ GmbH & Co. Gendorf KG39InfraServ GmbH & Co. Hoechst KG32InfraServ GmbH & Co. Knapsack KG27

Research and Development

Our businesses are innovation-oriented and conduct research and development activities to develop new, and optimize existing, production technologies, as well as to develop commercially viable new products and applications. Research and development expense was$86 million,$85 millionand$104 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012, respectively. We consider the amounts spent during each of the last three fiscal years on research and development activities to be sufficient to execute our current strategic initiatives.

Intellectual Property

We attach importance to protecting our intellectual property, including safeguarding our confidential information and through our patents, trademarks and copyrights, in order to preserve our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Patents may cover processes, equipment, products, intermediate products and product uses. We also seek to register trademarks as a means of protecting the brand names of our Company and products.

Patents.In most industrial countries, patent protection exists for new substances and formulations, as well as for certain unique applications and production processes. However, we do business in regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce.

Confidential Information.We maintain stringent information security policies and procedures wherever we do business. Such information security policies and procedures include data encryption, controls over the disclosure and safekeeping of confidential information and trade secrets, as well as employee awareness training.

Trademarks.AOPlus®, AOPlus®2, AOPlus®3, Ateva®, Avicor®, BriteCoat®, Celanese®, Celanex®, Celcon®, CelFX™, Celstran®, Celvolit®, Clarifoil®, Duroset®, EcoVAE®, Factor®, Fortron®, GUR®, Hostaform®, Impet®, Mowilith®, Nutrinova®, Qorus™, Riteflex®, Sunett®, TCX™, Thermx®, TufCOR®, VAntage®, VAntagePlus™, VAntage®2, Vectra®, Vinamul®, VitalDose®, Zenite®and certain other branded products and services named in this document are registered or reserved trademarks or service marks owned or licensed by Celanese. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive or comprehensive list of all registered or reserved trademarks and service marks owned or licensed by Celanese. Fortron®is a registered trademark of Fortron Industries LLC.











We monitor competitive developments and defend against infringements on our intellectual property rights. Neither Celanese nor any particular business segment is materially dependent upon any one patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret.

Environmental and Other Regulation

Matters pertaining to environmental and other regulations are discussed inItem 1A. Risk Factors, as well asNote 2 - Summary of Accounting Policies,Note 16 - EnvironmentalandNote 24 - Commitments and Contingenciesin the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Employees

Employees employed by Celanese on a continuing basis throughout the world are as follows:Employees as ofDecember 31, 2014North AmericaUS2,877Canada248Mexico705Total3,830EuropeGermany1,531Other Europe1,018Total2,549Asia1,013Rest of World76Total7,468

Backlog

We do not consider backlog to be a significant indicator of the level of future sales activity. In general, we do not manufacture our products against a backlog of orders. Production and inventory levels are based on the level of incoming orders as well as projections of future demand. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to understanding our overall business and should not be considered a reliable indicator of our ability to achieve any particular level of net sales or financial performance.

Available Information — Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Filings and Corporate Governance Materials

We make available free of charge, through our internet website (http://www.celanese.com), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as ownership reports on Form 3 and Form 4, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. References to our website in this report are provided as a convenience, and the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Celanese Corporation, that electronically file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

We also make available free of charge, through our website, our Corporate Governance Guidelines of our Board of Directors and the charters of each of the committees of our Board of Directors.











