Item 1.Business



Basis of
    Presentation



In this Annual Report onForm 10-K,the term “Celanese” refers to Celanese Corporation, a
    Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The terms the
    “Company,” “we,” “our” and
    “us” refer to Celanese and its subsidiaries on a
    consolidated basis. The term “Celanese US” refers to
    our subsidiary, Celanese US Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited
    liability company, formerly known as BCP Crystal US Holdings
    Corp., a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The
    term “Purchaser” refers to our subsidiary, Celanese
    Europe Holding GmbH & Co. KG, formerly known as BCP
    Crystal Acquisition GmbH & Co. KG, a German limited
    partnership, and not its subsidiaries, except where otherwise
    indicated.





Overview



Celanese Corporation was formed in 2004 when affiliates of The
    Blackstone Group purchased 84% of the ordinary shares of
    Celanese GmbH, formerly known as Celanese AG, a diversified
    German chemical company. Celanese Corporation was incorporated
    in 2005 under the laws of the state of Delaware and its shares
    are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
    “CE”. During the period from 2005 through 2007,
    Celanese Corporation purchased the remaining 16% interest in
    Celanese GmbH.



We are a leading, global integrated producer of chemicals and
    advanced materials. We are one of the world’s largest
    producers of acetyl products, which are intermediate chemicals
    for nearly all major industries, as well as a leading global
    producer of high performance engineered polymers that are used
    in a variety of high-value, end-use applications. As an industry
    leader, we hold geographically balanced global positions and
    participate in diversified, end-use markets. Our operations are
    primarily located in North America, Europe and Asia. We combine
    a demonstrated track record of execution, strong performance
    built on our principles and objectives, and a clear focus on
    growth, productivity and value creation.



Our large and diverse global customer base primarily consists of
    major companies in a broad array of industries. For the year
    ended December 31, 2009, approximately 27% of our net sales
    were to customers located in North America, 42% to
    customers in Europe and Africa, 28% to customers in Asia-Pacific
    and 3% to customers in South America. We have property, plant
    and equipment in the United States of $634 million and
    outside the United States of $2,163 million.



Industry



This Annual Report onForm 10-Kincludes industry data obtained from industry publications and
    surveys as well as our own internal company surveys. Third-party
    industry publications, surveys and forecasts generally state
    that the information contained therein has been obtained from
    sources believed to be reliable. The statements regarding
    Celanese’s market position in this document are based on
    information derived from, among others, the2009 Stanford
    Research Institute International Chemical Economics Handbook.





Business
    Segment Overview



We operate principally through four business segments: Advanced
    Engineered Materials, Consumer Specialties, Industrial
    Specialties and Acetyl Intermediates. For further details on our
    business segments, see Note 26 to the consolidated
    financial statements. The table below illustrates each business
    segment’s net sales to external customers for the year
    ended December 31, 2009, as well as each business
    segment’s major products and end-use markets.



AdvancedEngineered MaterialsConsumer SpecialtiesIndustrial SpecialtiesAcetyl Intermediates2009 Net
    Sales(1)$808 million$1,078 million$974 million$2,220 millionKey Products•   Polyacetal products (“POM”)•   Ultra-high molecularweight polyethylene (“GUR®”)•   Liquid crystal polymers (“LCP”)•   Polyphenylene sulfide (“PPS”)•   Polybutyleneterephthalate (“PBT”)•   Polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”)•   Long fiber reinforced thermoplastics (“LFRT”)•   Acetate tow•   Acetate flake•   Sunett®sweetener•   Sorbates•   Polyvinyl alcohol (“PVOH”)(2)•   Conventional emulsions•   Vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions (“VAE”)•   Low-density polyethylene resins (“LDPE”)•   Ethylene vinyl acetate (“EVA”) resins and compounds•   Acetic acid•   Vinyl acetatemonomer (“VAM”)•   Acetic anhydride•   Acetaldehyde•   Ethyl acetate•   Butyl acetate•   FormaldehydeMajor End-UseMarkets•   Fuel system components•   Conveyor belts•   Battery separators•   Electronics•   Seat belt mechanisms•   Other automotive•   Appliances•   Electronics•   Filtrations•   Coatings•   Medical Devices•   Telecommunications•   Filter products•   Beverages•   Confections•   Baked goods•   Pharmaceuticals•   Paints•   Coatings•   Adhesives•   Building products•   Glass fibers•   Textiles•   Paper•   Flexible packaging•   Lamination products•   Medical tubing•   Automotive parts•   Paints•   Coatings•   Adhesives•   Lubricants•   Detergents•   Pharmaceuticals•   Films•   Textiles•   Inks•   Plasticizers•   Esters•   Solvents







(1)Consolidated net sales of $5,082 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 also includes $2 million in net
    sales from Other Activities, which is attributable to our
    captive insurance companies. Net sales for Acetyl Intermediates
    and Consumer Specialties exclude inter-segment sales of
    $389 million combined for the year ended December 31,
    2009.(2)The PVOH business was sold July 1, 2009.



Competitive
    Strengths



We benefit from a number of competitive strengths, including the
    following:



• Leading
    Positions



We believe that we are a leading global integrated producer of
    acetyl, acetate and vinyl emulsion products. Advanced Engineered
    Materials and our strategic affiliates, Polyplastics Co., Ltd.
    (“Polyplastics”) and Korea Engineering Plastics Co.,
    Ltd. (“KEPCO”), are leading producers and suppliers of
    engineered polymers in North America, Europe and the
    Asia-Pacific region. Our leadership positions are based on our
    large share of global production capacity, operating
    efficiencies, proprietary production technology and competitive
    cost structures in our major product lines.





• Proprietary
    Production Technology and Operating Expertise



Our production of acetyl products employs industry-leading
    proprietary and licensed technologies, including our proprietary
    AOPlus®2

    and
    AOPlustmtechnologies for the production of acetic acid and
    VAntagetmand VAntage
    Plustmvinyl acetate monomer technology.
    AOPlus®2

    builds on the industry benchmark with the ability to increase
    acetic acid production from our current capacity of
    1.2 million tons per reactor per year to approximately
    1.5 million tons per reactor per year at a fraction of the
    cost of a new facility. This technology is applicable to
    existing and new greenfield units.
    AOPlustmenables increased raw material efficiencies, lower operating
    costs and the ability to expand plant capacity with minimal
    investment.
    VAntagetmand VAntage
    Plustmenable significant increases in production efficiencies, lower
    operating costs and increases in capacity at ten to fifteen
    percent of the cost of building a new plant.



• Low
    Cost Producer



Our competitive cost structures are based on production and
    purchasing economies of scale, vertical integration, technical
    expertise and the use of advanced technologies.



• Global
    Reach



We own or lease thirty-two production facilities throughout the
    world, of which five sites are no longer operating as of
    December 31, 2009. We participate in strategic ventures
    which operate thirteen additional facilities. Our infrastructure
    of manufacturing plants, terminals, warehouses and sales offices
    provides us with a competitive advantage in anticipating and
    meeting the needs of our global and local customers in
    well-established and growing markets, while our geographic
    diversity reduces the potential impact of volatility in any
    individual country or region. We have a strong, growing presence
    in Asia, particularly in China, and we have a defined strategy
    to continue this growth. For more information regarding our
    financial information with respect to our geographic areas, see
    Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.



• Strategic
    Investments



Our strategic investments have enabled us to gain access,
    minimize costs and accelerate growth in new markets, while also
    generating significant cash flow and earnings. Our equity
    investments and cost investments represent an important
    component of our growth strategy. See Note 8 to the
    consolidated financial statements andItem 1.
    Business — Investmentsfor additional information
    on our equity and cost investments.



• Diversified
    Products and End-Use Markets



We offer our customers a broad range of products in a wide
    variety of end-use markets. Our diversified end-use markets
    include paints and coatings, textiles, automotive applications,
    consumer and medical applications, performance industrial
    applications, filter media, paper and packaging, chemical
    additives, construction, consumer and industrial adhesives, and
    food and beverage applications. This product and market
    diversity reduces the potential impact of volatility in any
    individual segment.



Business
    Strategies



Our strategic foundation is based on the following four pillars
    which are focused on increasing operating cash flows, improving
    profitability, delivering high return on investments and
    increasing shareholder value:



• Focus



We focus on businesses where we have a sustainable and proven
    competitive advantage. We continue to optimize our business
    portfolio in order to achieve market, cost and technology
    leadership while expanding our product mix into higher
    value-added products.







• Investment



We build on advantaged positions that optimize our portfolio of
    products. In order to improve our competitive advantage, we have
    invested in: our core group of businesses through acquisitions;
    growth in Asia bolstered by our integrated chemical complex in
    Nanjing, China; and new applications of our advanced engineered
    polymers products.



• Growth



We aggressively align with our customers and their end-use
    markets to capture growth. We are quickly expanding in Asia, the
    fastest-growing region in the world, in order to meet increasing
    demand for our products. As part of our strategy, we also
    continue to develop new products and industry-leading production
    technologies that deliver value-added solutions for our
    customers.



• Redeployment



We divest non-core assets and revitalize underperforming
    businesses. We have divested or exited businesses where we no
    longer maintain a competitive advantage. We also continue to
    make key strategic decisions to revitalize businesses that have
    significant potential for improved performance and enhanced
    efficiency.



Underlying all of these strategies is a culture of execution and
    productivity. We continually seek ways to reduce costs, increase
    productivity and improve process technology. Our commitment to
    operational excellence is an integral part of our strategy to
    maintain our cost advantage and productivity leadership.



Business
    Segments



Advanced
    Engineered Materials



Our Advanced Engineered Materials segment develops, produces and
    supplies a broad portfolio of high performance technical
    polymers for application in automotive and electronics products,
    as well as other consumer and industrial applications. Together
    with our strategic affiliates, we are a leading participant in
    the global technical polymers industry. The primary products of
    Advanced Engineered Materials are POM, PPS, LFRT, PBT, PET,
    GUR®and LCP. POM, PPS, LFRT, PBT and PET are used in a broad range
    of products including automotive components, electronics,
    appliances and industrial applications.
    GUR®is used in battery separators, conveyor belts, filtration
    equipment, coatings and medical devices. Primary end markets for
    LCP are electrical and electronics.



Advanced Engineered Materials’ technical polymers have
    chemical and physical properties enabling them, among other
    things, to withstand extreme temperatures, resist chemical
    reactions with solvents and withstand fracturing or stretching.
    These products are used in a wide range of performance-demanding
    applications in the automotive and electronics sectors as well
    as in other consumer and industrial goods.



Advanced Engineered Materials works in concert with its
    customers to enable innovations and develop new or enhanced
    products. Advanced Engineered Materials focuses its efforts on
    developing new markets and applications for its product lines,
    often developing custom formulations to satisfy the technical
    and processing requirements of a customer’s applications.
    For example, Advanced Engineered Materials has collaborated with
    fuel system suppliers to develop an acetal copolymer with the
    chemical and impact resistance necessary to withstand exposure
    to hot diesel fuels in the new generation of common rail diesel
    engines. The product can also be used in automotive fuel sender
    units where it remains stable at the high operating temperatures
    present in direct-injection diesel engines and can meet the
    requirements of the new generation of bio fuels.



Advanced Engineered Materials’ customer base consists
    primarily of a large number of plastic molders and component
    suppliers, which typically supply original equipment
    manufacturers (“OEMs”). Advanced Engineered Materials
    works with these molders and component suppliers as well as
    directly with the OEMs to develop and improve specialized
    applications and systems.



Prices for most of these products, particularly specialized
    product grades for targeted applications, generally reflect the
    value added in complex polymer chemistry, precision formulation
    and compounding, and the extensive





application development services provided. These specialized
    products are not typically susceptible to cyclical swings in
    pricing.



• Key
    Products



POM is sold under the trademark
    Hostaform®in all regions but North America, where it is sold under the
    trademark
    Celcon®.

    Polyplastics and KEPCO are leading suppliers of POM and other
    engineering resins in the Asia-Pacific region. POM is used for
    mechanical parts, including door locks and seat belt mechanisms,
    in automotive applications and in electrical, consumer and
    medical applications such as drug delivery systems and gears for
    large appliances.



The primary raw material for POM is formaldehyde, which is
    manufactured from methanol. Advanced Engineered Materials
    currently purchases formaldehyde in the United States from our
    Acetyl Intermediates segment and, in Europe, manufactures
    formaldehyde from purchased methanol.



GUR®is an engineered material used in heavy-duty automotive and
    industrial applications such as car battery separator panels and
    industrial conveyor belts, as well as in specialty medical and
    consumer applications, such as sports equipment and prostheses.
    GUR®micro powder grades are used for high-performance filters,
    membranes, diagnostic devices, coatings and additives for
    thermoplastics and elastomers.
    GUR®fibers are also used in protective ballistic applications.



Celstran®and
    Compel®are long fiber reinforced thermoplastics, which impart extra
    strength and stiffness, making them more suitable for larger
    parts than conventional thermoplastics and are used in
    automotive, transportation and industrial applications.



Polyesters such as
    Celanex®PBT,
    Celanex®PET,
    Vandar®,

    a series of PBT-polyester blends and
    Riteflex®,

    a thermoplastic polyester elastomer, are used in a wide variety
    of automotive, electrical and consumer applications, including
    ignition system parts, radiator grilles, electrical switches,
    appliance and sensor housings, light emitting diodes
    (“LEDs”) and technical fibers. Raw materials for
    polyesters vary. Base monomers, such as dimethyl terephthalate
    and purified terephthalic acid (“PTA”), are widely
    available with pricing dependent on broader polyester fiber and
    packaging resins market conditions. Smaller volume specialty
    co-monomers for these products are typically supplied by a
    limited number of companies.



Liquid crystal polymers, such as
    Vectra®,

    are used in electrical and electronics applications and for
    precision parts with thin walls and complex shapes or on
    high-heat cookware applications.



Fortron®,

    a PPS product, is used in a wide variety of automotive and other
    applications, especially those requiring heatand/orchemical resistance, including fuel system parts, radiator pipes
    and halogen lamp housings, often replacing metal. Other possible
    application fields include non-woven filtration devices such as
    coal fired power plants.
    Fortron®is manufactured by Fortron Industries LLC (“Fortron”),
    Advanced Engineered Materials’ 50% owned strategic venture
    with Kureha Corporation of Japan.



• Facilities



Advanced Engineered Materials has polymerization, compounding
    and research and technology centers in Germany, Brazil, China
    and the United States.





• Geographic
    Regions



The following table illustrates the destination of the net sales
    of the Advanced Engineered Materials segment by geographic
    region.



Net Sales
    to External Customers by Destination — Advanced
    Engineered Materials



Year Ended December 31,200920082007% of% of% of$Segment$Segment$Segment(In millions, except percentages)North America28535%36534%38838%Europe and Africa40350%55352%51750%Asia-Pacific8210%10610%888%South America385%374%374%Total8081,0611,030





Advanced Engineered Materials’ sales in Asia are made
    directly and through distributors including its strategic
    affiliates. Polyplastics, KEPCO and Fortron are accounted for
    under the equity method and therefore not included in Advanced
    Engineered Materials’ consolidated net sales. If Advanced
    Engineered Materials’ portion of the sales made by these
    strategic affiliates were included in the table above, the
    percentage of sales sold in Asia-Pacific would be substantially
    higher. A number of Advanced Engineered Materials’ POM
    customers, particularly in the appliance, electrical components
    and certain sections of the electronics/telecommunications
    fields, have moved tooling and molding operations to Asia,
    particularly southern China. In addition to our Advanced
    Engineered Materials affiliates, we directly service Asian
    demand by offering our customers global solutions.



Advanced Engineered Materials’ principal customers are
    consumer product manufacturers and suppliers to the automotive
    industry. These customers primarily produce engineered products,
    and Advanced Engineered Materials collaborates with its
    customers to assist in developing and improving specialized
    applications and systems. Advanced Engineered Materials has
    long-standing relationships with most of its major customers,
    but also uses distributors for its major products, as well as a
    number of electronic marketplaces to reach a larger customer
    base. For most of Advanced Engineered Materials’ products,
    contracts with customers typically have a term of one to two
    years.



• Competition



Advanced Engineered Materials’ principal competitors
    include BASF AG (“BASF”), E. I. DuPont de Nemours and
    Company (“DuPont”), DSM N.V., Sabic Innovative
    Plastics and Solvay S.A. Smaller regional competitors include
    Asahi Kasei Corporation, Mitsubishi Gas Chemicals, Inc., Chevron
    Phillips Chemical Company, L.P., Braskem S.A., Lanxess AG,
    Teijin, Sumitomo, Inc. and Toray Industries Inc.



Consumer
    Specialties



The Consumer Specialties segment consists of our Acetate
    Products and Nutrinova businesses. Our Acetate Products business
    primarily produces and supplies acetate tow, which is used in
    the production of filter products. We also produce acetate flake
    which is processed into acetate fiber in the form of a tow band.
    Our Nutrinova business produces and sells
    Sunett®,

    a high intensity sweetener, and food protection ingredients,
    such as sorbates, for the food, beverage and pharmaceutical
    industries.



• Key
    Products



Acetate tow is used primarily in cigarette filters. We produce
    acetate flake by processing wood pulp with acetic anhydride. We
    purchase wood pulp that is made from reforested trees from major
    suppliers and produce acetic anhydride internally. The acetate
    flake is then further processed into acetate fiber in the form
    of a tow band.





According to the 2009 Stanford Research Institute International
    Chemical Economics Handbook, as of 2008 we are the world’s
    leading producer of acetate tow, including production of our
    China ventures.



Sales of acetate tow amounted to approximately 16%, 12% and 11%
    of our consolidated net sales for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



We have an approximate 30% interest in three manufacturing China
    ventures, which are accounted for as cost method investments
    (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements) that
    produce acetate flake and tow. Our partner in each of the
    ventures is the Chinese state-owned tobacco entity, China
    National Tobacco Corporation. In addition, approximately 12% of
    our 2009 acetate tow sales were sold directly to China, the
    largest consuming country for acetate tow.



Acesulfame potassium, a high intensity sweetener marketed under
    the trademark
    Sunett®,

    is used in a variety of beverages, confections and dairy
    products throughout the world.
    Sunett®pricing for targeted applications reflects the value added by
    Nutrinova, through consistent product quality and reliable
    supply. Nutrinova’s strategy is to be the most reliable and
    highest quality producer of this product, to develop new product
    applications and expand into new markets.



Nutrinova’s food ingredients business consists of the
    production and sale of food protection ingredients, such as
    sorbic acid and sorbates, and high intensity sweeteners
    worldwide. Nutrinova’s food protection ingredients are
    mainly used in foods, beverages and personal care products. The
    primary raw materials for these products are ketene and
    crotonaldehyde. Sorbates pricing is extremely sensitive to
    demand and industry capacity and is not necessarily dependent on
    the prices of raw materials.



•  Facilities



Acetate Products has production sites in the United States,
    Mexico, the United Kingdom and Belgium, and participates in
    three manufacturing ventures in China.



Nutrinova has a production facility in Germany, as well as sales
    and distribution facilities in all major world markets.



•  Geographic
    Regions



The following table illustrates the destination of the net sales
    of the Consumer Specialties segment by geographic region.



Net Sales
    to External Customers by Destination — Consumer
    Specialties



Year Ended December 31,200920082007% of% of% of$Segment$Segment$Segment(In millions, except percentages)North America17616%19417%20118%Europe and Africa45242%49743%42739%Asia-Pacific40237%41336%43739%South America485%514%464%Total1,078(1)1,1551,111









(1)Excludes inter-segment sales of $6 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2009.



Sales of acetate tow are principally to the major tobacco
    companies that account for a majority of worldwide cigarette
    production. Our contracts with most of our customers are entered
    into on an annual basis.



Nutrinova primarily markets
    Sunett®to a limited number of large multinational and regional
    customers in the beverage and food industry under long-term and
    annual contracts. Nutrinova markets food protection ingredients





primarily through regional distributors to small and medium
    sized customers and directly through regional sales offices to
    large multinational customers in the food industry.



• Competition



Acetate Products’ principal competitors include Daicel
    Chemical Industries Ltd. (“Daicel”), Eastman Chemical
    Corporation (“Eastman”) and Rhodia S.A.



The principal competitors for Nutrinova’s
    Sunett®sweetener are Holland Sweetener Company, The NutraSweet Company,
    Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Tate & Lyle PLC and several
    Chinese manufacturers. In sorbates, Nutrinova competes with
    Nantong AA, Daicel, Yu Yao/Ningbo, Yancheng AmeriPac and other
    Chinese manufacturers of sorbates.



Industrial
    Specialties



Our Industrial Specialties segment includes our Emulsions, PVOH
    and EVA Performance Polymers businesses. Our Emulsions business
    is a global leader which produces a broad product portfolio,
    specializing in vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions, and is a
    recognized authority on low VOC (volatile organic compounds), an
    environmentally-friendly technology. Our PVOH business was sold
    in July 2009 to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (“Sekisui”)
    for a net cash purchase price of $168 million. The PVOH
    business produced a broad portfolio of performance PVOH
    chemicals engineered to meet specific customer requirements. Our
    emulsions products are used in a wide array of applications
    including paints and coatings, adhesives, building and
    construction, glass fiber, textiles and paper. EVA Performance
    Polymers offers a complete line of low-density polyethylene and
    specialty ethylene vinyl acetate resins and compounds. EVA
    Performance Polymers’ products are used in many
    applications including flexible packaging films, lamination film
    products, hot melt adhesives, medical tubing and devices,
    automotive carpet and solar cell encapsulation films.



• Key
    Products



The products in our Emulsions business include conventional
    vinyl and acrylate based emulsions and high-pressure vinyl
    acetate ethylene emulsions. Emulsions are made from VAM,
    acrylate esters and styrene. Our Emulsions business is a leading
    producer of vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions in Europe. These
    products are a key component of water-based architectural
    coatings, adhesives, non-wovens, textiles, glass fiber and other
    applications.



Sales from the Emulsions business amounted to approximately 15%,
    13% and 14% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



PVOH is used in adhesives, building products, paper coatings,
    films and textiles. The primary raw material to produce PVOH is
    VAM, while acetic acid is produced as a by-product. Our PVOH
    business was sold to Sekisui in July 2009.



EVA Performance Polymers produces low-density polyethylene and
    EVA resins and compounds that are used in the manufacture of hot
    melt adhesives, automotive carpet, lamination film products,
    flexible packaging films, medical tubing and solar cell
    encapsulation films. EVA resins and compounds are produced in
    high-pressure reactors from ethylene and VAM.



• Facilities



The Emulsions business has production sites in the United
    States, Canada, China, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands and
    Germany. EVA Performance Polymers has a production facility in
    Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Our PVOH production sites in the
    United States and Spain were sold to Sekisui in July 2009.





• Geographic
    Regions



The following table illustrates the destination of the net sales
    of the Industrial Specialties segment by geographic region.



Net Sales
    to External Customers by Destination — Industrial
    Specialties



Year Ended December 31,200920082007% of% of% of$Segment$Segment$Segment(In millions, except percentages)North America38239%61744%58343%Europe and Africa50452%68448%67450%Asia-Pacific788%816%695%South America101%242%202%Total9741,4061,346





Industrial Specialties’ products are sold to a diverse
    group of regional and multinational customers. Customers for
    emulsions are manufacturers of water-based paints and coatings,
    adhesives, paper, building and construction products, glass
    fiber, non-wovens and textiles. The customers of the PVOH
    business are primarily engaged in the production of adhesives,
    paper, films, building products and textiles. Customers of EVA
    Performance Polymers are primarily engaged in the manufacture of
    adhesives, automotive components, packaging materials, print
    media and solar energy products.



• Competition



Principal competitors in the Emulsions business include The Dow
    Chemical Company (“Dow”), BASF, Dairen, Wacker and
    several smaller regional manufacturers.



Principal competitors for the EVA Performance Polymers EVA
    resins and compounds business include DuPont, ExxonMobil
    Chemical, Arkema and several Asian manufacturers.



Acetyl
    Intermediates



Our Acetyl Intermediates segment produces and supplies acetyl
    products, including acetic acid, VAM, acetic anhydride and
    acetate esters. These products are generally used as starting
    materials for colorants, paints, adhesives, coatings, and
    medicines. Other chemicals produced in this business segment are
    organic solvents and intermediates for pharmaceutical,
    agricultural and chemical products.



• Key
    Products



Acetyl Products.Acetyl products include acetic
    acid, VAM, acetic anhydride and acetaldehyde. Acetic acid is
    primarily used to manufacture VAM, PTA and other acetyl
    derivatives. VAM is used in a variety of adhesives, paints,
    films, coatings and textiles. Acetic anhydride is a raw material
    used in the production of cellulose acetate, detergents and
    pharmaceuticals. Acetaldehyde is a major feedstock for the
    production of a variety of derivatives, such as pyridines, which
    are used in agricultural products. We manufacture acetic acid,
    VAM and acetic anhydride for our own use, as well as for sale to
    third parties.



Acetic acid and VAM, our basic acetyl intermediates products,
    are impacted by global supply and demand fundamentals and are
    cyclical in nature. The principal raw materials in these
    products are ethylene, which we purchase from numerous sources;
    carbon monoxide, which we purchase under long-term contracts;
    and methanol, which we purchase under long-term and short-term
    contracts. With the exception of carbon monoxide, these raw
    materials are commodity products available from a wide variety
    of sources.





Our production of acetyl products employs leading proprietary
    and licensed technologies, including our proprietary
    AOPlus®2

    and
    AOPlustmtechnologies for the production of acetic acid and
    VAntagetmand VAntage
    PlustmVAM technology.



Solvents and Derivatives.Solvents and derivatives
    products include a variety of solvents, formaldehyde and other
    chemicals, which in turn are used in the manufacture of paints,
    coatings, adhesives and other products.



Many solvents and derivatives products are derived from our
    production of acetic acid. Primary products are:



•    Ethyl acetate, an acetate ester
    that is a solvent used in coatings, inks and adhesives and in
    the manufacture of photographic films and coated papers; and



•    Butyl acetate, an acetate ester
    that is a solvent used in inks, pharmaceuticals and perfume.



Formaldehyde and formaldehyde derivative products are
    derivatives of methanol and are made up of the following
    products:



•    Formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde and
    formcels are primarily used to produce adhesive resins for
    plywood, particle board, coatings, POM engineering resins and a
    compound used in making polyurethane;



•    Amines such as methyl amines,
    monisopropynol amines and butyl amines are used in
    agrochemicals, herbicides and the treatment of rubber and
    water; and



•    Special solvents, such as
    crotonaldehyde, which are used by the Nutrinova line for the
    production of sorbates, as well as raw materials for the
    fragrance and food ingredients industry.



Solvents and derivatives are commodity products characterized by
    cyclicality in pricing. The principal raw materials used in
    solvents and derivatives products are acetic acid, various
    alcohols, methanol, ethylene and ammonia. We manufacture many of
    these raw materials for our own use as well as for sales to
    third parties, including our competitors in the solvents and
    derivatives business. We purchase ethylene from a variety of
    sources. We manufacture acetaldehyde in Europe for our own use,
    as well as for sale to third parties.



Sales from acetyl products amounted to approximately 34%, 35%
    and 34% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Sales from
    solvents and derivatives products amounted to approximately 10%,
    12% and 12% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



• Facilities



Acetyl Intermediates has production sites in the United States,
    China, Mexico, Singapore, Spain, France and Germany. As of
    December 31, 2009, acetic acid and VAM production at our
    Pardies, France location had ceased. In addition, our
    Cangrejera, Mexico site no longer produced VAM as of
    December 31, 2009. We also participate in a strategic
    venture in Saudi Arabia that produces methanol and methyl
    tertiary-butyl ether (“MTBE”). Over the last few
    years, we have continued to shift our production capacity to
    lower cost production facilities while expanding in growth
    markets, such as China.





• Geographic
    Regions



The following table illustrates net sales by destination of the
    Acetyl Intermediates segment by geographic region.



Net Sales
    to External Customers by Destination — Acetyl
    Intermediates



Year Ended December 31,200920082007% of% of% of$Segment$Segment$Segment(In millions, except percentages)North America50122%74323%68523%Europe and Africa77135%1,19837%1,18340%Asia-Pacific88440%1,14236%96833%South America643%1164%1194%Total2,220(1)3,199(1)2,955(1)







(1)Excludes inter-segment sales of $383 million,
    $676 million and $660 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.



Acetyl Intermediates markets its products both directly to
    customers and through distributors.



Acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride are global businesses
    which have several large customers. Generally, we supply these
    global customers under multi-year contracts. The customers of
    acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride produce polymers used in
    water-based paints, adhesives, paper coatings, polyesters, film
    modifiers, pharmaceuticals, cellulose acetate and textiles. We
    have long-standing relationships with most of these customers.



Solvents and derivatives are sold to a diverse group of regional
    and multinational customers both under multi-year contracts and
    on the basis of long-standing relationships. The customers of
    solvents and derivatives are primarily engaged in the production
    of paints, coatings and adhesives. We manufacture formaldehyde
    for our own use as well as for sale to a few regional customers
    that include manufacturers in the wood products and chemical
    derivatives industries. The sale of formaldehyde is based on
    both long and short-term agreements. Specialty solvents and
    amines are sold globally to a wide variety of customers,
    primarily in the coatings and resins and the specialty products
    industries. These products serve global markets in the synthetic
    lubricant, agrochemical, rubber processing and other specialty
    chemical areas.



• Competition



Our principal competitors in the Acetyl Intermediates segment
    include Atofina S.A., BASF, British Petroleum PLC, Chang Chun
    Petrochemical Co., Ltd., Daicel, Dow, Eastman, DuPont,
    LyondellBasell Industries, Nippon Gohsei, Perstorp Inc., Jiangsu
    Sopo Corporation (Group) Ltd., Showa Denko K.K., and Kuraray Co.
    Ltd.



Other
    Activities



Other Activities primarily consists of corporate center costs,
    including financing and administrative activities such as legal,
    accounting and treasury functions, interest income and expense
    associated with our financing activities, and our captive
    insurance companies. Our two wholly-owned captive insurance
    companies are a key component of our global risk management
    program, as well as a form of self-insurance for our property,
    liability and workers compensation risks. The captive insurance
    companies issue insurance policies to our subsidiaries to
    provide consistent coverage amid fluctuating costs in the
    insurance market and to lower long-term insurance costs by
    avoiding or reducing commercial carrier overhead and regulatory
    fees. The captive insurance companies retain risk at levels
    approved by management and obtain reinsurance coverage from
    third parties to limit the net risk retained. One of the captive
    insurance companies also insures certain third-party risks.





Investments



We have a significant portfolio of strategic investments,
    including a number of ventures in Asia-Pacific, North America
    and Europe. In aggregate, these strategic investments enjoy
    significant sales, earnings and cash flow. We have entered into
    these strategic investments in order to gain access to local
    demand, minimize costs and accelerate growth in areas we believe
    have significant future business potential. See Note 8 to
    the consolidated financial statements for additional information.



The table below represents our significant strategic ventures as
    of December 31, 2009:



YearLocationOwnershipSegmentPartner(s)EnteredEquity Method InvestmentsKorea Engineering Plastics Co. LtdSouth Korea50%Advanced Engineered MaterialsMitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc./MitsubishiCorporation1999Polyplastics Co., Ltd.Japan45%Advanced EngineeredMaterialsDaicel ChemicalIndustries Ltd.1964Fortron Industries LLCUS50%Advanced EngineeredMaterialsKureha Corporation1992Cost Method InvestmentsNational Methanol Co.Saudi Arabia25%Acetyl IntermediatesSaudi Basic IndustriesCorporation (“SABIC”)/Texas Eastern ArabianCorporation Ltd.1981Kunming Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30%Consumer SpecialtiesChina National TobaccoCorporation1993Nantong Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China31%Consumer SpecialtiesChina National TobaccoCorporation1986Zhuhai Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30%Consumer SpecialtiesChina National TobaccoCorporation1993





• Major
    Equity Method Investments



Korea Engineering Plastics Co. Ltd.Founded in 1987,
    KEPCO is the leading producer of polyacetal in South Korea.
    Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. owns 40% and Mitsubishi
    Corporation owns 10% of KEPCO. KEPCO operates a POM plant in
    Ulsan, South Korea and participates with Polyplastics and
    Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. in a world-scale POM
    facility in Nantong, China.



Polyplastics Co., Ltd.We believe Polyplastics is a
    leading supplier of engineered plastics in the Asia-Pacific
    region. Polyplastics’ principal production facilities are
    located in Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia and China. We believe
    Polyplastics is a leading producer and marketer of POM in the
    Asia-Pacific region.



Fortron Industries LLC.We believe Fortron
    Industries LLC (“Fortron”) is a leading global
    producer of PPS. Fortron’s facility is located in
    Wilmington, North Carolina. We believe Fortron has the leading
    technology in linear polymer applications.



• Major
    Cost Method Investments



National Methanol Co. (“Ibn Sina”).With
    production facilities in Saudi Arabia, Ibn Sina represents
    approximately 2% of the world’s methanol production
    capacity and is the world’s eighth largest producer of
    MTBE. Methanol and MTBE are key global commodity chemical
    products. We indirectly own a 25% interest in Ibn Sina through
    CTE Petrochemicals Co., a joint venture with Texas Eastern
    Arabian Corporation Ltd. (which also indirectly owns 25%), with
    the remainder held by SABIC (50%). SABIC has responsibility for
    all product marketing.



China Acetate Products ventures.We hold
    approximately 30% ownership interests (50% board representation)
    in three separate Acetate Products production entities in China:
    the Nantong, Kunming and Zhuhai Cellulose Fiber Companies. In
    each instance, the Chinese state-owned tobacco entity, China
    National Tobacco Corporation, controls the remainder. The China
    ventures fund operations using operating cash flows.





These cost investments where we own greater than a 20% ownership
    interest are accounted for under the cost method of accounting
    because we cannot exercise significant influence over these
    entities. We determined that we cannot exercise significant
    influence over these entities due to local government investment
    in and influence over these entities, limitations on our
    involvement in theday-to-dayoperations and the present inability of the entities to provide
    timely financial information prepared in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States
    (“US GAAP”).



• Other
    Equity Investments



InfraServs.We hold ownership interests in several
    InfraServ entities located in Germany. InfraServs own and
    develop industrial parks and provideon-sitegeneral and administrative support to tenants. The table below
    represents our equity investments in InfraServ ventures as of
    December 31, 2009:



CompanyOwnership %InfraServ GmbH & Co. Gendorf KG39%InfraServ GmbH & Co. Knapsack KG27%InfraServ GmbH & Co. Hoechst KG32%





Raw
    Materials and Energy



We purchase a variety of raw materials and energy from sources
    in many countries for use in our production processes. We have a
    policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of
    supply for materials. However, some of our individual plants may
    have single sources of supply for some of their raw materials,
    such as carbon monoxide, steam and acetaldehyde. Although we
    have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials,
    there can be no assurance that unforeseen developments will not
    affect our raw material supply. Even if we have multiple sources
    of supply for a raw material, there can be no assurance that
    these sources can make up for the loss of a major supplier.
    There cannot be any guarantee that profitability will not be
    affected should we be required to qualify additional sources of
    supply to our specifications in the event of the loss of a sole
    supplier. In addition, the price of raw materials varies, often
    substantially, from year to year.



A substantial portion of our products and raw materials are
    commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply/demand
    fundamentals change. Our production facilities rely largely on
    fuel oil, natural gas and electricity for energy. Most of the
    raw materials for our European operations are centrally
    purchased by one of our subsidiaries, which also buys raw
    materials on behalf of third parties. We manage our exposure
    through forward purchase contracts, long-term supply agreements
    and multi-year purchasing and sales agreements. During 2009, we
    did not enter into any commodity financial derivative contracts.
    See Note 2 and Note 22 to the consolidated financial
    statements for additional information.



We also currently purchase and lease supplies of various
    precious metals, such as rhodium, used as catalysts for the
    manufacture of Acetyl Intermediates products. For precious
    metals, the leases are distributed between a minimum of three
    lessors per product and are divided into several contracts.



Research
    and Development



All of our businesses conduct research and development
    activities to increase competitiveness. Our businesses are
    innovation-oriented and conduct research and development
    activities to develop new, and optimize existing, production
    technologies, as well as to develop commercially viable new
    products and applications. We consider the amount spent during
    each of the last three fiscal years on research and development
    activities to be adequate to drive our strategic initiatives.



Intellectual
    Property



We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights
    and product designs in order to protect our investment in
    research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Our
    policy is to seek the widest possible protection for significant
    product and process developments in our major markets. Patents
    may cover processes, products, intermediate products and product
    uses. We also seek to register trademarks extensively as a





means of protecting the brand names of our products, which brand
    names become more important once the corresponding products or
    process patents have expired. We protect our trademarks
    vigorously against infringement and also seek to register design
    protection where appropriate.



In most industrial countries, patent protection exists for new
    substances and formulations, as well as for unique applications
    and production processes. However, we do business in regions of
    the world where intellectual property protection may be limited
    and difficult to enforce. We maintain strict information
    security policies and procedures wherever we do business. Such
    information security policies and procedures include data
    encryption, controls over the disclosure and safekeeping of
    confidential information, as well as employee awareness
    training. Moreover, we monitor our competitors and vigorously
    defend and enforce infringements on our intellectual property
    rights.



Neither Celanese nor any particular business segment is
    materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark,
    copyright or trade secret.



• Trademarks



AOPlus®2,

    AOPlus®,

    VAntage®,

    VAntage
    Plustm,

    BuyTiconaDirecttm,

    Celanex®,

    Celcon®,

    Celstran®,

    Celvolit®,

    Compel®,

    Erkol®,

    GUR®,

    Hostaform®,

    Impet®,

    Mowilith®,

    Nutrinova®,

    Riteflex®,

    Sunett®,

    Vandar®,

    Vectra®,

    Vinamul®,

    EcoVAE®,

    Duroset®,

    Ateva®,

    Acetex®and certain other products and services named in this document
    are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks of
    Celanese. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive or
    comprehensive list of all trademarks, service marks or
    registered trademarks owned by Celanese.
    Fortron®is a registered trademark of Fortron Industries LLC, a venture
    of Celanese.



Environmental
    and Other Regulation



Matters pertaining to environmental and other regulations are
    discussed inItem 1A. Risk Factors,Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates – Accounting for Commitments
    and Contingencies, and Note 16 and Note 24 to the
    consolidated financial statements.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had 7,400 employees
    worldwide. The following table sets forth the approximate number
    of employees on a continuing basis.



Employees as ofDecember 31, 2009North AmericaUS2,500Canada250Mexico700Total3,450EuropeGermany1,600Other Europe1,600Total3,200Asia700Rest of World50Total7,400





Many of our employees are unionized, particularly in Germany,
    Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Belgium and France. However, in the
    United States, less than one quarter of our employees are
    unionized. Moreover, in Germany and France, wages and general
    working conditions are often the subject of centrally negotiated
    collective bargaining agreements. Within the limits established
    by these agreements, our various subsidiaries negotiate directly
    with the





unions and other labor organizations, such as workers’
    councils, representing the employees. Collective bargaining
    agreements between the German chemical employers associations
    and unions relating to remuneration generally have a term of one
    year, while in the United States a three year term for
    collective bargaining agreements is typical. We offer
    comprehensive benefit plans for employees and their families and
    believe our relations with employees are satisfactory.



Backlog



We do not consider backlog to be a significant indicator of the
    level of future sales activity. In general, we do not
    manufacture our products against a backlog of orders. Production
    and inventory levels are based on the level of incoming orders
    as well as projections of future demand. Therefore, we believe
    that backlog information is not material to understanding our
    overall business and should not be considered a reliable
    indicator of our ability to achieve any particular level of
    revenue or financial performance.



Available
    Information — Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”) Filings and Corporate Governance
    Materials



We make available free of charge, through our internet website(http://www.celanese.com),our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically
    filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. The SEC
    maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and
    information statements, and other information regarding issuers,
    including Celanese Corporation, that electronically file with
    the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.



We also make available free of charge, through our internet
    website, our Corporate Governance Guidelines of our Board of
    Directors and the charters of each of the committees of the
    Board. Such materials are also available in print upon the
    written request of any shareholder to Celanese Corporation,
    1601 West LBJ Freeway, Dallas, Texas,75234-6034,Attention: Investor Relations.



