Item 1.Business



Basis
    of Presentation



In this Annual Report onForm 10-K,the term “Celanese” refers to Celanese Corporation, a
    Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The terms
    “Company,” “we,” “our” and
    “us” refer to Celanese and its subsidiaries on a
    consolidated basis. The term “Celanese US” refers to
    the Company’s subsidiary, Celanese US Holdings LLC, a
    Delaware limited liability company, and not its subsidiaries.



Overview



Celanese Corporation was formed in 2004 when affiliates of The
    Blackstone Group purchased 84% of the ordinary shares of
    Celanese GmbH, formerly known as Celanese AG, a diversified
    German chemical company. Celanese





Corporation was incorporated in 2005 under the laws of the state
    of Delaware and its shares are traded on the New York Stock
    Exchange under the symbol “CE”. During the period from
    2005 through 2007, Celanese Corporation acquired the remaining
    16% interest in Celanese GmbH.



We are a global technology and specialty materials company. We
    are one of the world’s largest producers of acetyl
    products, which are intermediate chemicals, for nearly all major
    industries, as well as a leading global producer of high
    performance engineered polymers that are used in a variety of
    high-value applications. As a recognized innovator in the
    chemicals industry, we engineer and manufacture a wide variety
    of products essential to everyday living. Our broad product
    portfolio serves a diverse set of end-use applications including
    paints and coatings, textiles, automotive applications, consumer
    and medical applications, performance industrial applications,
    filter media, paper and packaging, chemical additives,
    construction, consumer and industrial adhesives, and food and
    beverage applications. Our products enjoy leading global
    positions due to our large global production capacity, operating
    efficiencies, proprietary production technology and competitive
    cost structures.



Our large and diverse global customer base primarily consists of
    major companies in a broad array of industries. We hold
    geographically balanced global positions and participate in
    diversified end-use applications. We combine a demonstrated
    track record of execution, strong performance built on shared
    principles and objectives, and a clear focus on growth and value
    creation. Known for operational excellence and execution of our
    business strategies, we deliver value to customers around the
    globe withbest-in-classtechnologies.



Industry



This Annual Report onForm 10-Kincludes industry data obtained from industry publications and
    surveys as well as our own internal company surveys. Third-party
    industry publications, surveys and forecasts generally state
    that the information contained therein has been obtained from
    sources believed to be reliable. The statements regarding
    Celanese’s industry position in this document are based on
    information derived from, among others, the2009 Stanford
    Research Institute International Chemical Economics Handbook.



Business
    Segment Overview



We operate principally through four business segments: Advanced
    Engineered Materials, Consumer Specialties, Industrial
    Specialties and Acetyl Intermediates. See Note 25 to the
    accompanying consolidated financial statements for further
    details on our business segments. The table below illustrates
    each business segment’s net sales to external customers for
    the year ended December 31, 2010, as well as each business
    segment’s major products andend-useapplications.







AdvancedEngineered MaterialsConsumer SpecialtiesIndustrial SpecialtiesAcetyl Intermediates2010 Net
    Sales(1)$1,109 million$1,089 million$1,036 million$2,682 millionKey Products•   Polyacetal products (“POM”)•   Ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (“GUR®”)•   Liquid crystal polymers (“LCP”)•   Polyphenylene sulfide (“PPS”)•   Polybutylene terephthalate (“PBT”)•   Polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”)•   Long-fiber reinforced thermoplastics (“LFT”)•   Acetate tow•   Acetate flake•   Sunett®sweetener•   Sorbates•   Conventional emulsions•   Vinyl acetate ethylene  emulsions (“VAE”)•   Low-densitypolyethylene resins (“LDPE”)•   Ethylene vinyl acetate  (“EVA”) resins and compounds•   Acetic acid•   Vinyl acetatemonomer (“VAM”)•   Acetic anhydride•   Acetaldehyde•   Ethyl acetate•   Butyl acetate•   FormaldehydeMajor End-UseApplications•   Fuel system components•   Conveyor belts•   Battery separators•   Electronics•   Automotive safety systems•   Appliances•   Filtrations•   Medical Devices•   Telecommunications•   Filter products•   Beverages•   Confections•   Baked goods•   Photovoltaic cell systems•   Paints•   Coatings•   Adhesives•   Textiles•   Paper finishing•   Flexible packaging•   Lamination products•   Medical tubing•   Automotive parts•   Paints•   Coatings•   Adhesives•   Lubricants•   Pharmaceuticals•   Films•   Textiles•   Inks•   Plasticizers•   Esters•   Solvents









(1)Consolidated net sales of $5,918 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2010 also includes $2 million in net
    sales from Other Activities, which is attributable to our
    captive insurance companies. Net sales for Acetyl Intermediates
    and Consumer Specialties exclude inter-segment sales of
    $400 million and $9 million, respectively, for the
    year ended December 31, 2010.





Competitive
    Strengths



We benefit from a number of competitive strengths, including the
    following:



Leading
    Positions



We hold a leading position in the major product industries that
    we serve. Our positions are based on our operating efficiencies,
    proprietary production technology and competitive cost
    structures in our major product lines.





•Advanced Engineered Materials—Our Advanced
    Engineered Materials business is a leading participant in the
    global technical polymers industry. Approximately 70% of its
    business is specification-based, which drives sustainable value
    for its performance polymers. Advanced Engineered Materials
    maintains its competitive advantage with high-quality products
    and services, as well as its technical knowledge in application
    development and product technology. Its substantial strategic
    affiliates also enhance its global reach.



•Consumer Specialties—Our Acetate Products business
    is a leading producer of acetate tow, used in the production of
    filter products. We also hold approximately 30% ownership
    interests in three separate Acetate Products production entities
    in China. Our Nutrinova business is a leading international
    supplier of the high intensity sweetener
    Sunett®(acesulfame potassium) for the food, beverage and pharmaceutical
    industries and is also one of the world’s largest producers
    of sorbates used in food preservatives.



•Industrial Specialties—Our Industrial Specialties
    business is active in every major global industrial sector and
    has manufacturing plants across North America, Europe and Asia.
    Our expertise in vinyl-based technology enables us to drive
    value into our customers’ products. We are a leading global
    producer of VAE emulsions and a recognized authority on low VOC
    (volatile organic compound) technology.



•Acetyl Intermediates—As an industry leader, our
    Acetyl Intermediates business has built on its leading
    technology, an advantaged feedstock position, and attractive
    industry structure to drive growth. With decades of experience,
    advanced proprietary process technology and favorable production
    costs, we are a leading global producer of acetic acid and VAM.
    In 2007, we strengthened our global positions with the opening
    of an integrated chemical complex in Nanjing, China, that brings
    world-class scale to one site for the production of acetic acid,
    VAM, acetic anhydride and other products.



Highly
    Diversified Products and End-Use Applications



We offer our customers a broad range of products in a wide
    variety of end-use applications including paints and coatings,
    textiles, automotive applications, consumer and medical
    applications, performance industrial applications, filter media,
    paper and packaging, chemical additives, construction, consumer
    and industrial adhesives, and food and beverage applications.
    Our net sales are also geographically balanced across the global
    regions. For the year ended December 31, 2010,
    approximately 28% of our net sales were to customers located in
    North America, 40% to customers in Europe and Africa, 29% to
    customers in Asia-Pacific and 3% to customers in South America.
    We have property, plant and equipment, net in the United States
    of $650 million and outside the United States of
    $2,367 million.



Attractive
    Near-Term Growth Prospects



We continue to make significant progress toward our stated
    growth objectives and aim to increase the earnings power of our
    portfolio over the near term. We intend to continue to grow the
    earnings power of the business through four key strategic levers:



•Geographic Growth—We continue to accelerate growth
    in emerging regions, including Asia. Our integrated chemical
    complex in Nanjing, China, the largest integrated acetyls
    complex in the world, serves as a foundation for our expansion
    in Asia and supports the region’s increasing demand. Our
    strategic affiliates will further accelerate this growth.









•Innovation—We expect innovation through new product
    and application development to enhance revenue growth,
    particularly in our Advanced Engineered Materials and Industrial
    Specialties businesses. Advanced Engineered Materials has
    industry-leading polymer technologies used in high performance
    applications and Industrial Specialties provides attractive
    economic solutions for environmentally-sensitive low-VOC
    applications, including paints, coatings and adhesives.
    Innovation and application development strategies in these
    businesses bolster the company’s operating earnings.



•Productivity—We have a track record of executing on
    our productivity commitments. Energy reduction, business process
    excellence, manufacturing optimization and other productivity
    initiatives will enable us to offset fixed cost inflation,
    improve our operating performance and fuel reinvestment in our
    businesses. We expect to realize our productivity commitments
    for fixed cost reductions in the near term.



•Portfolio Enhancements—We continuously pursue
    opportunities that meet our investment criteria and shift our
    current product base towards technology-focused and specialty
    materials businesses. In December 2009, we completed the
    acquisition of the LFT business of FACT GmbH (Future Advanced
    Composites Technology). We also acquired two product lines,
    Zenite®LCP and
    Thermx®polycyclohexylene-dimethylene terephthalate (“PCT”),
    from DuPont Performance Polymers in May 2010. Through our
    25%-owned strategic venture in Saudi Arabia, known as National
    Methanol Company or “Ibn Sina,” we are also investing
    in a new POM facility in Saudi Arabia to strengthen our
    specialty materials portfolio.



Strategic
    Affiliates



Our equity and cost investments represent an important component
    of our strategy for accelerated growth and expansion of our
    global reach. These investments have provided our core
    businesses with a large presence in Asia and the Middle East,
    and have also contributed significantly to earnings and cash
    flow. These ventures, some of which date back as far as the
    1960s, have sizeable operations and are significant within their
    industries.



Proprietary
    Production Technology and Operating Expertise



Our production of acetyl products employs industry-leading
    proprietary and licensed technologies, including our proprietary
    AOPlus®and
    AOPlus®2

    technologies for the production of acetic acid and
    VAntage®and VAntage
    Plustmvinyl acetate monomer technology.
    AOPlus®2

    builds on the industry benchmark with the ability to increase
    acetic acid production from our current capacity of
    1.2 million tons per reactor per year to approximately
    1.5 million tons per reactor per year at a fraction of the
    cost of a new facility. This technology is applicable to
    existing and new greenfield units.
    AOPlus®enables increased raw material efficiencies, lower operating
    costs and the ability to expand plant capacity with minimal
    investment.
    VAntage®and VAntage
    Plustmenable significant increases in production efficiencies, lower
    operating costs and increases in capacity at ten to fifteen
    percent of the cost of building a new plant.



Low
    Cost Producer



Our competitive cost structures are based on production and
    purchasing economies of scale, vertical integration, technical
    expertise and the use of advanced technologies.



Global
    Reach



We own or lease thirty production facilities throughout the
    world, of which three sites are no longer operating as of
    December 31, 2010. We participate in strategic ventures
    which operate eight additional facilities. Our infrastructure of
    manufacturing plants, terminals, warehouses and sales offices
    provides us with a competitive advantage in anticipating and
    meeting the needs of our global and local customers in
    well-established and growing industries, while our geographic
    diversity reduces the potential impact of volatility in any
    individual country or region. We have a strong, growing presence
    in Asia, particularly in China, and we have a defined strategy
    to continue this growth. See Note 25 to the accompanying
    consolidated financial statements for further information
    regarding our geographic areas.





Business
    Strategies



Our strategic foundation is based on the following three pillars
    which are focused on increasing operating cash flows, improving
    profitability, delivering high return on investments and
    increasing shareholder value:



Business
    Focus



We focus on businesses where we have a clear, sustainable,
    competitive advantage. We continue to optimize our business
    portfolio in order to achieve industry, cost and technology
    leadership while expanding our product mix into higher
    value-added products.



Strategic
    Results



We have created a unique portfolio of technology and specialty
    materials businesses that will enable Celanese to deliver
    sustainable results that yield premier financial performance.
    Our advantaged portfolio is well positioned for sustained
    earnings growth, relatively higher margins, modest earnings
    volatility and high capital return.



Strategic
    Levers



We will deliver earnings growth, further strengthen our
    businesses and increase shareholder value through premier
    execution of our four key strategic earnings growth levers:
    Geographic Growth, Innovation, Productivity and Portfolio
    Enhancements.



Business
    Segments



Advanced
    Engineered Materials



Our Advanced Engineered Materials segment develops, produces and
    supplies a broad portfolio of high performance specialty
    polymers for application in automotive, medical and electronics
    products, as well as other consumer and industrial applications.
    Together with our strategic affiliates, we are a leading
    participant in the global specialty polymers industry. The
    primary products of Advanced Engineered Materials are POM, PPS,
    PBT, LFT,
    GUR®and LCP. POM, PPS, PBT and LFT are used in a broad range of
    products including automotive components, medical devices,
    electronics, appliances and industrial applications.
    GUR®is used in battery separators, conveyor belts, filtration
    equipment, coatings and medical devices. Primary end uses for
    LCP are electrical and electronics.



Advanced Engineered Materials’ specialty polymers have
    chemical and physical properties enabling them, among other
    things, to withstand elevated temperatures, resist adverse
    chemical interactions with solvents and withstand deformation.
    These products are used in a wide range of performance-demanding
    applications in the automotive and electronics sectors as well
    as in other consumer and industrial goods.



Advanced Engineered Materials works in concert with its
    customers to enable innovations and develop new or enhanced
    products. Advanced Engineered Materials focuses its efforts on
    developing new applications for its product lines, often
    creating custom formulations to satisfy the technical and
    processing requirements of a customer’s applications. For
    example, Advanced Engineered Materials has collaborated with
    fuel system suppliers to develop an acetal copolymer with the
    chemical and impact resistance necessary to withstand exposure
    to hot diesel fuels in the new generation of common rail diesel
    engines. The product can also be used in automotive fuel sender
    units where it remains stable at the operating temperatures
    present in direct-injection diesel engines and can meet the
    requirements of the new generation of biofuels.



Prices for most of these products, particularly specialized
    product grades for targeted applications, generally reflect the
    value added in complex polymer chemistry, precision formulation
    and compounding, and the extensive application development
    services provided. These specialized products are not typically
    susceptible to cyclical swings in pricing.





•Key Products



POM.Polyacetal, as POM is commonly known in the
    chemical industry, is sold by Advanced Engineered Materials
    under the trademark
    Hostaform®in all regions but North America, where it is sold under the
    trademark
    Celcon®.

    POM is used for mechanical parts, including door locks and seat
    belt mechanisms, in automotive applications and in electrical,
    medical and consumer applications such as drug delivery systems
    and gears for large appliances. POM and other engineering resins
    are manufactured in the Asia-Pacific region by Polyplastics Co.,
    Ltd., our45%-ownedstrategic venture (“Polyplastics”), and Korea
    Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd., our 50%-owned strategic venture
    (“KEPCO”).



The primary raw material for POM is formaldehyde, which is
    manufactured from methanol. Advanced Engineered Materials
    currently purchases formaldehyde in the United States from our
    Acetyl Intermediates segment and, in Europe, manufactures
    formaldehyde from purchased methanol.



Ibn Sina produces methanol and methyl tertiary-butyl ether
    (“MTBE”). We recently announced the extension of our
    Ibn Sina strategic venture, including the construction of a new
    50,000 ton POM manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia.
    Engineering on the facility began in 2010.



LFT.Celstran®and
    Compel®are long-fiber reinforced thermoplastics, which impart extra
    strength and stiffness, making them more suitable for larger
    parts than conventional thermoplastics and both products are
    used in automotive, transportation and industrial applications.



GUR®. A

    highly engineered material designed for heavy-duty industrial
    and automotive applications,
    GUR®is used in items such as industrial conveyor belts, car battery
    separator panels and specialty medical and consumer
    applications, such as sports prostheses and equipment.
    GUR®micro powder grades are used for high-performance filters,
    membranes, diagnostic devices, coatings and additives for
    thermoplastics and elastomers.
    GUR®fibers are also used in protective ballistic applications.



Polyesters.Our products also include certain
    polyesters such as
    Celanex®PBT,
    Celanex®PET,
    Vandar®,

    a series of PBT-polyester blends and
    Riteflex®,

    a thermoplastic polyester elastomer, used in a wide variety of
    automotive, electrical and consumer applications, including
    ignition system parts, radiator grilles, electrical switches,
    appliance and sensor housings, light emitting diodes
    (“LEDs”) and technical fibers. Raw materials for
    polyesters vary. Base monomers, such as dimethyl terephthalate
    and purified terephthalic acid (“PTA”), are widely
    available with pricing dependent on broader polyester fiber and
    packaging resins industry conditions. Smaller volume specialty
    co-monomers for these products are typically supplied to us by a
    limited number of companies.



Liquid crystal polymers, such as
    Vectra®and
    Zenite®,

    are primarily used in electrical and electronics applications
    for precision parts with thin walls and complex shapes as well
    as in high heat cookware applications.



Fortron®,

    a PPS product, is used in a wide variety of automotive and other
    applications, especially those requiring heatand/orchemical resistance, including fuel system parts, radiator pipes
    and halogen lamp housings, often replacing metal. Other
    application fields include non-woven filtration devices used in
    coal fired power plants.
    Fortron®is manufactured by Fortron Industries LLC (“Fortron”),
    our 50%-owned strategic venture with Kureha Corporation of Japan.



•Facilities



Advanced Engineered Materials has polymerization, compounding
    and research and technology centers in Germany, Brazil, China
    and the United States.





•Geographic Regions



The following table illustrates the destination of the net sales
    of the Advanced Engineered Materials segment by geographic
    region.



Net Sales
    to External Customers by Destination — Advanced
    Engineered Materials



Year Ended December 31,201020092008% of% of% of$Segment$Segment$Segment(In millions, except percentages)North America384342853536534Europe and Africa530484035055352Asia-Pacific15214821010610South America434385374Total1,1098081,061





•Customers



Advanced Engineered Materials’ sales in Asia are made
    directly and through distributors including its strategic
    affiliates. Polyplastics, KEPCO and Fortron are accounted for
    under the equity method of accounting and therefore not included
    in Advanced Engineered Materials’ consolidated net sales.
    If Advanced Engineered Materials’ portion of the sales made
    by these strategic affiliates were included in the table above,
    the percentage of sales sold in Asia-Pacific would be
    substantially higher. A number of Advanced Engineered
    Materials’ POM customers, particularly in the appliance,
    electrical components and certain sections of the
    electronics/telecommunications fields, have moved tooling and
    molding operations to Asia, particularly southern China. In
    addition to our Advanced Engineered Materials affiliates, we
    directly service Asian demand by offering our customers global
    solutions.



Advanced Engineered Materials’ principal customers are
    consumer product manufacturers and suppliers to the automotive
    industry. These customers primarily produce engineered products,
    and Advanced Engineered Materials collaborates with its
    customers to assist in developing and improving specialized
    applications and systems. Advanced Engineered Materials has
    long-standing relationships with most of its major customers,
    but also uses distributors for its major products, as well as a
    number of electronic marketplaces to reach a larger customer
    base. For most of Advanced Engineered Materials’ products,
    contracts with customers typically have a term of one to
    two years.



•Competition



Advanced Engineered Materials’ principal competitors
    include BASF AG (“BASF”), E. I. DuPont de Nemours and
    Company (“DuPont”), DSM N.V., SABIC Innovative
    Plastics and Solvay S.A. Other regional competitors include
    Asahi Kasei Corporation, Mitsubishi Gas Chemicals, Inc., Chevron
    Phillips Chemical Company, L.P., Braskem S.A., Lanxess AG,
    Teijin, Sumitomo, Inc. and Toray Industries Inc.



Consumer
    Specialties



The Consumer Specialties segment consists of our Acetate
    Products and Nutrinova businesses. Our Acetate Products business
    primarily produces and supplies acetate tow, which is used in
    the production of filter products. We also produce acetate flake
    which is processed into acetate fiber in the form of a tow band.
    Our Nutrinova business produces and sells
    Sunett®,

    a high intensity sweetener, and food protection ingredients,
    such as sorbates and sorbic acid, for the food, beverage and
    pharmaceutical industries.





•Key Products



Acetate flake and tow.According to the 2009
    Stanford Research Institute International Chemical Economics
    Handbook, as of 2008 we were the world’s leading producer
    of acetate tow (inclusive of the production of our China
    ventures). Acetate tow is used primarily in cigarette filters.
    To produce acetate tow, we first produce acetate flake by
    processing wood pulp with acetic acid and acetic anhydride. Wood
    pulp comes from reforested trees and is purchased externally
    from a variety of sources and acetic anhydride is an
    intermediate chemical we produce internally from acetic acid.
    The acetate flake is then further processed into acetate fiber
    in the form of a tow band.



Sales of acetate tow amounted to approximately 15%, 16% and 12%
    of our consolidated net sales for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



We have an approximate 30% interest in three manufacturing
    ventures in China that produce acetate flake and tow. Our
    partner in each of the ventures is the Chinese state-owned
    tobacco entity, China National Tobacco Corporation. In addition
    to being our venture partner, China National Tobacco accounted
    for approximately 12% of our 2010 acetate tow sales.



Sunett®sweetener.Acesulfame potassium, a high intensity
    sweetener marketed under the trademark
    Sunett®,

    is used in a variety of beverages, confections and dairy
    products throughout the world.
    Sunett®sweetener is known for its consistent product quality and
    reliable supply. Nutrinova’s strategy is to be the most
    reliable and highest quality producer of this product, to
    develop new product applications and to expand into new regions.



Food protection ingredients.Nutrinova’s food
    protection ingredients are mainly used in foods, beverages and
    personal care products. The primary raw materials for these
    products are ketene and crotonaldehyde. Sorbates pricing is
    extremely sensitive to demand and industry capacity and is not
    necessarily dependent on the prices of raw materials.



•Facilities



Acetate Products has production sites in the United States,
    Mexico, the United Kingdom and Belgium, and participates in
    three manufacturing ventures in China. During 2010, we announced
    the shutdown of our acetate tow and flake manufacturing
    operations at our Spondon, Derby, United Kingdom site. We will
    continue to maintain our Clarifoil manufacturing operations at
    this site.



Nutrinova has a production facility in Germany, as well as sales
    and distribution facilities in all major regions of the world.





•Geographic Regions



The following table illustrates the destination of the net sales
    of the Consumer Specialties segment by geographic region.



Net Sales
    to External Customers by Destination — Consumer
    Specialties



Year Ended December 31,201020092008% of% of% of$Segment$Segment$Segment(In millions, except percentages)North America186171761619417Europe and Africa448414524249743Asia-Pacific394364023741336South America616485514Total1,089(1)1,078(1)1,155(1)







(1)Excludes inter-segment sales of $9 million, $6 million
    and $0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.



•Customers



Sales of acetate tow are principally to the major tobacco
    companies that account for a majority of worldwide cigarette
    production. Our contracts with most of our customers are entered
    into on an annual basis.



Nutrinova primarily markets
    Sunett®sweetener to a limited number of large multinational and
    regional customers in the beverage and food industry under
    long-term and annual contracts. Nutrinova markets food
    protection ingredients primarily through regional distributors
    to small and medium sized customers and directly through
    regional sales offices to large multinational customers in the
    food industry.



•Competition



Acetate Products’ principal competitors include Daicel
    Chemical Industries Ltd. (“Daicel”), Eastman Chemical
    Corporation (“Eastman”) and Rhodia S.A.



The principal competitors for Nutrinova’s
    Sunett®sweetener are Holland Sweetener Company, The NutraSweet Company,
    Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Tate & Lyle PLC and several
    Chinese manufacturers. In sorbates, Nutrinova competes with
    Nantong AA, Daicel, Yu Yao/Ningbo, Yancheng AmeriPac and other
    Chinese manufacturers of sorbates.



Industrial
    Specialties



Our Industrial Specialties segment is comprised of our Emulsions
    and EVA Performance Polymers businesses and is a leading
    producer of environmentally sensitive, low volatile organic
    compound (“VOC”) applications. Our emulsions products
    are used in a wide array of applications, including paints and
    coatings, adhesives, construction, glass fiber, textiles and
    paper. EVA Performance Polymers offers a complete line of
    low-density polyethylene and specialty EVA resins and compounds
    used in many applications including flexible packaging films,
    lamination film products, hot melt adhesives, medical devices
    and tubing, automotive, carpeting and solar cell encapsulation
    films. Our polyvinyl alcohol (“PVOH”) business was
    included in our Industrial Specialties segment until it was sold
    in July 2009 to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (“Sekisui”)
    for a net cash purchase price of $168 million.





Primary raw materials for our emulsions and EVA products are VAM
    which is produced by our Acetyl Intermediates segment and
    ethylene which we purchase externally from a variety of sources.



•Key Products



Our Emulsions business produces conventional vinyl- and
    acrylate-based emulsions and high-pressure VAE. Emulsions are
    made from VAM, acrylate esters and styrene. Our Emulsions
    business is a leading producer of VAE in Europe. VAE is a key
    component of water-based architectural coatings, adhesives,
    nonwovens, textiles, glass fiber and other applications.



EVA Performance Polymers produces low-density polyethylene and
    EVA resins and compounds. EVA resins and compounds are produced
    in high-pressure reactors from ethylene and VAM.



•Facilities



The Emulsions business has production sites in the United
    States, Canada, China, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands and
    Germany. EVA Performance Polymers has a production facility in
    Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.



•Geographic Regions



The following table illustrates the destination of the net sales
    of the Industrial Specialties segment by geographic region.



Net Sales
    to External Customers by Destination — Industrial
    Specialties



Year Ended December 31,201020092008% of% of% of$Segment$Segment$Segment(In millions, except percentages)North America450433823961744Europe and Africa481475045268448Asia-Pacific979788816South America81101242Total1,0369741,406





•Customers



Industrial Specialties’ products are sold to a diverse
    group of regional and multinational customers. Customers for
    emulsions products are manufacturers of water-based paints and
    coatings, adhesives, paper, building and construction products,
    glass fiber, non-wovens and textiles. Customers of EVA
    Performance Polymers products are primarily engaged in the
    manufacture of adhesives, automotive components, packaging
    materials, print media and solar energy products.



•Competition



Principal competitors in the Emulsions business include The Dow
    Chemical Company (“Dow”), BASF, Dairen Chemical,
    Wacker Chemie AG and several smaller regional manufacturers.



Principal competitors for the EVA Performance Polymers business
    include DuPont, ExxonMobil Chemical, Arkema and several Asian
    manufacturers.





Acetyl
    Intermediates



Our Acetyl Intermediates segment produces and supplies acetyl
    products, including acetic acid, VAM, acetic anhydride and
    acetate esters. These products are generally used as starting
    materials for colorants, paints, adhesives, coatings and
    medicines. Other chemicals produced in this business segment are
    organic solvents and intermediates for pharmaceutical,
    agricultural and chemical products.



In November 2010, we announced our newly developed advanced
    technology to produce ethanol, which will be included in our
    Acetyl Intermediates segment. This innovative, new process
    combines our proprietary and leading acetyl platform with highly
    advanced manufacturing technology to produce ethanol from
    hydrocarbon-sourced feedstocks. In January 2011, we signed
    letters of intent for projects to construct and operate
    industrial ethanol production facilities and signed a memorandum
    of understanding for production of certain feedstocks used in
    our advanced ethanol production process.



•Key Products



Acetyl Products.Acetyl products include acetic
    acid, VAM and acetic anhydride. Acetic acid is primarily used to
    manufacture VAM, PTA and other acetyl derivatives. VAM is used
    in a variety of adhesives, paints, films, coatings and textiles.
    Acetic anhydride is a raw material used in the production of
    cellulose acetate, detergents and pharmaceuticals. Acetaldehyde
    is a major feedstock for the production of a variety of
    derivatives, such as pyridines, which are used in agricultural
    products. We manufacture acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride
    for our own use, as well as for sale to third parties.



Our basic acetyl intermediates products, acetic acid and VAM,
    are impacted by global supply and demand fundamentals and are
    cyclical in nature. The principal raw materials in these
    products are: carbon monoxide, which we generally purchase under
    long-term contracts; methanol, which we generally purchase under
    long-term and short-term contracts; and ethylene, which we
    purchase from numerous sources. With the exception of carbon
    monoxide, these raw materials are commodity products available
    from a wide variety of sources.



Our production of acetyl products employs leading proprietary
    and licensed technologies, including our proprietary
    AOPlus®and
    AOPlus®2

    technologies for the production of acetic acid and
    VAntage®and VAntage
    PlustmVAM technology. We believe our production technology is one of
    the lowest cost in the industry and provides us a cost advantage
    over our competitors.



Sales from acetyl products amounted to 34%, 34% and 35% of our
    consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Solvents and Derivatives.These include a variety of
    solvents, formaldehyde and other chemicals, which in turn are
    used in the manufacture of paints, coatings, adhesives and other
    products. Many solvents and derivatives products are derived
    from our production of acetic acid. Primary products are:



•Ethyl acetate, an acetate ester that is a solvent used in
    coatings, inks and adhesives and in the manufacture of
    photographic films and coated papers; and•Butyl acetate, an acetate ester that is a solvent used in inks,
    pharmaceuticals and perfume.



Formaldehyde and formaldehyde derivative products are
    derivatives of methanol and are made up of the following
    products:



•Formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde and formcels are primarily used
    to produce adhesive resins for plywood, particle board,
    coatings, POM engineering resins and a compound used in making
    polyurethane; and•Other chemicals, such as crotonaldehyde, are used by the
    Nutrinova line for the production of sorbates, as well as raw
    materials for the fragrance and food ingredients industry.







Solvents and derivatives are products characterized by
    cyclicality in pricing. The principal raw materials used in
    solvents and derivatives products are acetic acid, various
    alcohols, methanol, ethylene and ammonia. We purchase ethylene
    from a variety of sources.



Sales from solvents and derivatives products amounted to 11%,
    10% and 12% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



•Facilities



Acetyl Intermediates has production sites in the United States,
    China, Mexico, Singapore, Spain, France and Germany. As of
    December 31, 2009, acetic acid and VAM production at our
    Pardies, France location had ceased. In addition, our
    Cangrejera, Mexico site no longer produced VAM as of
    December 31, 2009. Over the last few years, we have
    continued to shift our production capacity to lower cost
    production facilities while expanding in growth regions, such as
    China.



•Geographic Regions



The following table illustrates net sales by destination of the
    Acetyl Intermediates segment by geographic region.



Net Sales
    to External Customers by Destination — Acetyl
    Intermediates



Year Ended December 31,201020092008% of% of% of$Segment$Segment$Segment(In millions, except percentages)North America654245012274323Europe and Africa89734771351,19837Asia-Pacific1,04639884401,14236South America8536431164Total2,682(1)2,220(1)3,199(1)









(1)Excludes inter-segment sales of $400 million,
    $383 million and $676 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



•Customers



Acetyl Intermediates markets its products both directly to
    customers and through distributors.



Acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride are global businesses
    which have several large customers. Generally, we supply these
    global customers under multi-year contracts. The customers of
    acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride produce polymers used in
    water-based paints, adhesives, paper coatings, polyesters, film
    modifiers, pharmaceuticals, cellulose acetate and textiles. We
    have long-standing relationships with most of these customers.



Solvents and derivatives are sold to a diverse group of regional
    and multinational customers both under multi-year contracts and
    on the basis of long-standing relationships. The customers of
    solvents and derivatives are primarily engaged in the production
    of paints, coatings and adhesives. We manufacture formaldehyde
    for our own use as well as for sale to a few regional customers
    that include manufacturers in the wood products and chemical
    derivatives industries. The sale of formaldehyde is based on
    both long and short-term agreements. Specialty solvents are sold
    globally to a wide variety of customers, primarily in the
    coatings and resins and the specialty products industries. These
    products serve global regions in the synthetic lubricant,
    agrochemical, rubber processing and other specialty chemical
    areas.





•Competition



Our principal competitors in the Acetyl Intermediates segment
    include Atofina S.A., BASF, BP PLC, Chang Chun Petrochemical
    Co., Ltd., Daicel, Dow, Eastman, DuPont, LyondellBasell
    Industries, Nippon Gohsei, Perstorp Inc., Jiangsu Sopo
    Corporation (Group) Ltd., Showa Denko K.K. and Kuraray
    Co. Ltd.



Other
    Activities



Other Activities primarily consists of corporate center costs,
    including financing and administrative activities such as legal,
    accounting and treasury functions, interest income and expense
    associated with our financing activities, and our captive
    insurance companies. Our two wholly-owned captive insurance
    companies are a key component of our global risk management
    program, as well as a form of self-insurance for our property,
    liability and workers compensation risks. The captive insurance
    companies issue insurance policies to our subsidiaries to
    provide consistent coverage amid fluctuating costs in the
    insurance market and to lower long-term insurance costs by
    avoiding or reducing commercial carrier overhead and regulatory
    fees. The captive insurance companies retain risk at levels
    approved by management and obtain reinsurance coverage from
    third parties to limit the net risk retained. One of the captive
    insurance companies also insures certain third-party risks.



Strategic
    Ventures & Affiliates



We have a significant portfolio of strategic relationships and
    ventures in various regions, including Asia-Pacific, North
    America, the Middle East and Europe. Historically, we have
    entered into these strategic investments in order to gain access
    to local demand, minimize costs and accelerate growth in areas
    we believe have significant future business potential. Depending
    on the level of investment and other factors, we account for our
    strategic ventures using either the equity method or cost method
    of accounting.



In aggregate, our strategic investments generate significant
    sales, earnings and cash flows. For example, during the year
    ended December 31, 2010, our equity affiliates generated
    combined sales of $4.5 billion resulting in
    $168 million of equity in earnings from affiliates during
    the same period.



Our significant strategic ventures as of December 31, 2010
    are as follows:



YearLocationOwnershipBusiness SegmentPartner(s)EnteredEquity Method InvestmentsNational Methanol CompanySaudi Arabia25%Advanced Engineered MaterialsSaudi Basic Industries Corporation (“SABIC”)/ Texas
    Eastern Arabian Corporation Ltd.1981Korea Engineering Plastics Co., LtdSouth Korea50%Advanced Engineered MaterialsMitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc./Mitsubishi Corporation1999Polyplastics Co., Ltd.Japan45%Advanced Engineered MaterialsDaicel Chemical Industries Ltd.1964Fortron Industries LLCUS50%Advanced Engineered MaterialsKureha Corporation1992Cost Method InvestmentsKunming Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30%Consumer SpecialtiesChina National Tobacco Corporation1993Nantong Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China31%Consumer SpecialtiesChina National Tobacco Corporation1986Zhuhai Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30%Consumer SpecialtiesChina National Tobacco Corporation1993





National Methanol Company (Ibn Sina).With
    production facilities in Saudi Arabia, Ibn Sina represents
    approximately 2% of the world’s methanol production
    capacity and is one of the world’s largest producers of
    MTBE, a gasoline additive. We indirectly own a 25% interest in
    Ibn Sina through CTE Petrochemicals Company, a





joint venture with Texas Eastern Arabian Corporation Ltd. Texas
    Eastern Arabian Corporation Ltd. indirectly owns an additional
    25% interest in Ibn Sina, and the remaining 50% interest is held
    by SABIC. SABIC is responsible for all product marketing.



In April 2010, we announced that Ibn Sina will construct a
    50,000 ton POM production facility in Saudi Arabia and that the
    term of the joint venture agreement was extended until 2032. Ibn
    Sina’s existing natural gas supply contract expires in
    2022. The purpose of the plant is to supply POM to support
    Celanese’s Advanced Engineered Materials segment growth as
    well as our venture partners’ regional business
    development. Upon successful startup of the POM facility, our
    indirect economic interest in Ibn Sina will increase from 25% to
    32.5%. SABIC’s economic interest will remain unchanged.



In connection with the extension of the venture, we reassessed
    the factors surrounding the accounting method for this
    investment and changed from the cost method of accounting for
    investments to the equity method of accounting for investments
    beginning April 1, 2010.



Korea Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd.Founded in
    1987, KEPCO is the leading producer of POM in South Korea.
    Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. owns 40% and Mitsubishi
    Corporation owns 10% of KEPCO. KEPCO operates a POM plant in
    Ulsan, South Korea and participates with Polyplastics and
    Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. in a POM facility in
    Nantong, China.



Polyplastics Co., Ltd.Polyplastics is a leading
    supplier of engineered plastics in the Asia-Pacific region.
    Polyplastics’ principal production facilities are located
    in Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia and China. Polyplastics is a producer
    and marketer of POM in the Asia-Pacific region.



Fortron Industries LLC.Fortron is a leading global
    producer of PPS. Fortron’s facility is located in
    Wilmington, North Carolina.



China acetate strategic ventures.We hold an
    approximately 30% ownership interest (50% board representation)
    in three separate Acetate Products production entities in China:
    the Nantong, Kunming and Zhuhai Cellulose Fiber Companies. In
    each instance, the Chinese state-owned tobacco entity, China
    National Tobacco Corporation, controls the remainder. With an
    estimated 30% share of the world’s cigarette production and
    consumption, China is the world’s largest and fastest
    growing area for acetate tow products according to the 2009
    Stanford Research Institute International Chemical Economics
    Handbook. Combined, these ventures are a leader in Chinese
    domestic acetate production and are well positioned to supply
    Chinese cigarette producers.



In December 2009, we announced plans with China National Tobacco
    to expand our acetate flake and tow capacity at our Nantong
    facility. During 2010 we received formal approval to expand
    flake and tow capacities, each by 30,000 tons. Our Chinese
    acetate ventures fund their operations using operating cash
    flow. We made contributions during 2010 of $12 million and
    have committed to contributions of $17 million in 2011
    related to the capacity expansion in Nantong.



Our Chinese acetate ventures pay a dividend in the second
    quarter of each fiscal year, based on the ventures’
    performance for the preceding year. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we
    received cash dividends of $71 million, $56 million
    and $46 million, respectively.



Despite the fact that our ownership interest exceeds 20% in each
    of our China Acetate Products ventures, we account for these
    investments using the cost method of accounting because we
    cannot exercise significant influence over these entities. We
    determined that we cannot exercise significant influence over
    these entities due to local government investment in and
    influence over these entities, limitations on our involvement in
    theday-to-dayoperations and the present inability of the entities to provide
    timely financial information prepared in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States
    (“US GAAP”).





•Other Equity Investments



InfraServs.We hold ownership interests in several
    InfraServ entities located in Germany that own and develop
    industrial parks and provideon-sitegeneral and administrative support to tenants. The table below
    represents our equity investments in InfraServ ventures as of
    December 31, 2010:



Ownership %InfraServ GmbH & Co. Gendorf KG39InfraServ GmbH & Co. Knapsack KG27InfraServ GmbH & Co. Hoechst KG32





Raw
    Materials and Energy



We purchase a variety of raw materials and energy from sources
    in many countries for use in our production processes. We have a
    policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of
    supply for materials. However, some of our individual plants may
    have single sources of supply for some of their raw materials,
    such as carbon monoxide, steam and acetaldehyde. Although we
    have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials,
    there can be no assurance that unforeseen developments will not
    affect our raw material supply. Even if we have multiple sources
    of supply for a raw material, there can be no assurance that
    these sources can make up for the loss of a major supplier.
    There cannot be any guarantee that profitability will not be
    affected should we be required to qualify additional sources of
    supply to our specifications in the event of the loss of a sole
    supplier. In addition, the price of raw materials varies, often
    substantially, from year to year.



A substantial portion of our products and raw materials are
    commodities whose prices fluctuate as supply and demand
    fundamentals change. Our production facilities rely largely on
    fuel oil, natural gas, coal and electricity for energy. Most of
    the raw materials for our European operations are centrally
    purchased by one of our subsidiaries, which also buys raw
    materials on behalf of third parties. We manage our exposure to
    commodity risk primarily through the use of long-term supply
    agreements, multi-year purchasing and sales agreements and
    forward purchase contracts.



We also currently purchase and lease supplies of various
    precious metals, such as rhodium, used as catalysts for the
    manufacture of Acetyl Intermediates products. For precious
    metals, the leases are distributed between a minimum of three
    lessors per product and are divided into several contracts.



Research
    and Development



All of our businesses conduct research and development
    activities to increase competitiveness. Our businesses are
    innovation-oriented and conduct research and development
    activities to develop new, and optimize existing, production
    technologies, as well as to develop commercially viable new
    products and applications. We consider the amounts spent during
    each of the last three fiscal years on research and development
    activities to be sufficient to drive our current strategic
    initiatives.



Intellectual
    Property



We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights
    and product designs in order to protect our investment in
    research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Patents
    may cover processes, products, intermediate products and product
    uses. We also seek to register trademarks extensively as a means
    of protecting the brand names of our products. We protect our
    intellectual property vigorously against infringement and also
    seek to register design protection where appropriate.



Patents.In most industrial countries, patent
    protection exists for new substances and formulations, as well
    as for unique applications and production processes. However, we
    do business in regions of the world where intellectual property
    protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. We maintain
    strict information security policies and procedures wherever we
    do business. Such information security policies and procedures
    include data encryption,





controls over the disclosure and safekeeping of confidential
    information, as well as employee awareness training. Moreover,
    we monitor competitive developments and vigorously defend
    against infringements on our intellectual property rights.



Trademarks.AOPlus®,

    AOPlus®2,

    VAntage®,

    VAntage
    Plustm,

    BuyTiconaDirecttm,

    Celanex®,

    Celcon®,

    Celstran®,

    Celvolit®,

    Compel®,

    Erkol®,

    GUR®,

    Hostaform®,

    Impet®,

    Mowilith®,

    Nutrinova®,

    Riteflex®,

    Sunett®,

    Thermx®,

    Zenite®,

    Vandar®,

    Vectra®,

    Vinamul®,

    EcoVAE®,

    Duroset®,

    Ateva®,

    Acetex®and certain other products and services named in this document
    are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks of
    Celanese. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive or
    comprehensive list of all trademarks, service marks or
    registered trademarks owned by Celanese.
    Fortron®is a registered trademark of Fortron Industries LLC, one of
    Celanese’s equity investments.



Neither Celanese nor any particular business segment is
    materially dependent upon any one patent, trademark, copyright
    or trade secret.



Environmental
    and Other Regulation



Matters pertaining to environmental and other regulations are
    discussed inItem 1A. Risk Factors,Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates – Accounting for Commitments
    and Contingencies, and Note 15 and Note 23 to the
    accompanying consolidated financial statements.



Employees



The approximate number of employees employed by Celanese on a
    continuing basis throughout the world is as follows:



Employees as ofDecember 31, 2010North AmericaUS2,350Canada250Mexico700Total3,300EuropeGermany1,600Other Europe1,500Total3,100Asia800Rest of World50Total7,250





Many of our employees are unionized, particularly in Germany,
    Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, Brazil and Belgium. In the
    United States, however, less than one quarter of our employees
    are unionized. Moreover, in Germany and France, wages and
    general working conditions are often the subject of centrally
    negotiated collective bargaining agreements. Within the limits
    established by these agreements, our various subsidiaries
    negotiate directly with the unions and other labor
    organizations, such as workers’ councils, representing the
    employees. Collective bargaining agreements between the German
    chemical employers associations and unions relating to
    remuneration generally have a term of one year, while in the
    United States a three year term for collective bargaining
    agreements is typical. We offer comprehensive benefit plans for
    employees and their families and believe our relations with
    employees are satisfactory.





Backlog



We do not consider backlog to be a significant indicator of the
    level of future sales activity. In general, we do not
    manufacture our products against a backlog of orders. Production
    and inventory levels are based on the level of incoming orders
    as well as projections of future demand. Therefore, we believe
    that backlog information is not material to understanding our
    overall business and should not be considered a reliable
    indicator of our ability to achieve any particular level of
    revenue or financial performance.



Available
    Information — Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”) Filings and Corporate Governance
    Materials



We make available free of charge, through our internet website(http://www.celanese.com),our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as well as ownership reports on Form 3 and
    Form 4, as soon as reasonably practicable after
    electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to,
    the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains
    reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers, including Celanese Corporation, that
    electronically file with the SEC athttp://www.sec.gov.



We also make available free of charge, through our internet
    website, our Corporate Governance Guidelines of our Board of
    Directors and the charters of each of the committees of the
    Board. Such materials are also available in print upon the
    written request of any shareholder to Celanese Corporation,
    1601 West LBJ Freeway, Dallas, Texas,75234-6034,Attention: Investor Relations.



