Item 1.Business

Basis of Presentation

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the term "Celanese" refers to Celanese Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and not its subsidiaries. The terms "Company," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Celanese and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The term "Celanese US" refers to the Company’s subsidiary, Celanese US Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and not its subsidiaries.

Industry

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes industry data obtained from industry publications and surveys as well as our own internal company surveys. Third-party industry publications, surveys and forecasts generally state that the information contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable. The statements regarding the Company’s industry position in this document are based on information derived from, among others, the2012 IHS Chemicals Economics Handbook.

Overview

The Company is a global technology and specialty materials company that engineers and manufactures a wide variety of products essential to everyday living. As a recognized innovator in product and process technology in the chemicals industry, we help to create applications that meet the needs of our customers worldwide. We are one of the world's largest producers of acetyl products, which are intermediate chemicals for nearly all major industries. We are also a leading global producer of high performance engineered polymers that are used in a variety of high-value applications.

Our highly-diversified product portfolio serves a broad range of end-use applications including paints and coatings, textiles, automotive applications, consumer and medical applications, performance industrial applications, filter media, paper and packaging, chemical additives, construction, consumer and industrial adhesives, and food and beverage applications. Serving a diverse global customer base, our products hold leading global positions in the major product industries that we serve, supported by our large global production capacity, operating efficiencies, proprietary production technology and competitive cost structures.

Celanese's history began in 1918, the year that its predecessor company, The American Cellulose & Chemical Manufacturing Company, was incorporated. The company, which manufactured cellulose acetate, was founded by Swiss brothers Drs. Camille and Henri Dreyfus. Since that time, the Company has transformed into a leading global chemical company. The current Celanese was incorporated in 2005 under the laws of the State of Delaware and is a US-based public company traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol CE.

Headquartered in Irving, Texas, our operations are primarily located in North America, Europe and Asia and consist of27global production facilities, and an additional 9 strategic affiliate production facilities.As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately7,550people worldwide.

Due to our geographic breadth, our net sales are balanced across the global regions. For the year endedDecember 31, 2012,28%of our net sales were to customers located in the United States. SeeNote 25 - Segment Informationin the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further details on our international sales.












Business Segment Overview

We operate principally through four business segments: Advanced Engineered Materials, Consumer Specialties, Industrial Specialties and Acetyl Intermediates. SeeNote 25 - Segment Informationin the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further details on our business segments.

The table below illustrates each business segment’s net sales to external customers for the year endedDecember 31, 2012, as well as each business segment’s major products and end-use applications.AdvancedEngineered MaterialsConsumer SpecialtiesIndustrial SpecialtiesAcetyl Intermediates(In $ millions)2012 Net Sales(1)1,2611,1821,1842,791Key Products•  Polyoxymethylene ("POM")•  GUR® ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene•  Polybutylene terephthalate ("PBT")•  Long-fiber reinforced thermoplastics ("LFT")•  Liquid crystal polymers ("LCP")•  Acetate tow•  Acetate flake•  Acetate film•  Sunett®high intensity sweeteners•  Sorbates•  Conventional emulsions•  Vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions ("VAE")•  Ethylene vinyl acetate ("EVA") resins and compounds•  Low-density polyethylene resins ("LDPE")•  Acetic acid•  Vinyl acetate monomer ("VAM")•  Acetic anhydride•  Acetaldehyde•  Ethyl acetate•  Formaldehyde•  Butyl acetateMajor End-UseApplications•  Fuel system components•  Automotive safety       systems•  Conveyor belts•  Battery separators•  Electronics•  Appliances•  Filtrations•  Medical Devices•  Telecommunications•  Filter products•  Beverages•  Confections•  Baked goods•Paints•Coatings•Adhesives•Textiles•Paper finishing•Flexible packaging•Lamination products•Photovoltaic cell systems•Medical tubing•  Automotive parts•  Paints•  Coatings•  Adhesives•  Lubricants•  Pharmaceuticals•  Films•  Textiles•  Inks•  Plasticizers•  Esters•  Solvents___________________________

(1)Net sales for Consumer Specialties and Acetyl Intermediates exclude inter-segment sales of$4 millionand$440 million, respectively, for the year endedDecember 31, 2012.

Business Segments

Advanced Engineered Materials

Our Advanced Engineered Materials segment uses advanced polymer technology to produce a broad portfolio of high performance specialty polymers used in a wide spectrum of applications, including automotive, medical and electronics products, as well as other consumer and industrial applications. As a performance-driven solutions provider, Advanced Engineered Materials maintains its competitive advantage with leading technical and application expertise that enables innovation and new product development in concert with its customers. By focusing on new application development for its product lines, it often creates custom formulations to satisfy the technical and processing requirements of its customers' applications. With a strong specification position, Advanced Engineered Materials is able to build upon its differentiated polymer processing and material capability to create sustainable value for its high performance polymers. This business segment also includes four strategic affiliates that complement our global reach, improve our ability to capture growth opportunities in emerging economies and position us as a leading participant in the global specialty polymers industry.












Advanced Engineered Materials' specialty polymers have chemical and physical properties that enable them to perform in a variety of conditions. These include enduring elevated temperatures, resisting adverse chemical interactions with solvents and withstanding deformation. POM, PBT and LFT are used in a broad range of performance-demanding applications including automotive components, medical devices, electronics, appliances and industrial applications. GUR®ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene is used in battery separators, conveyor belts, filtration equipment, coatings and medical devices. Primary end uses for LCP are electrical and electronics applications or products. These value-added applications in diverse end-uses support the business' global growth trends.

Value-in-use pricing for most of these products, particularly specialized product grades for targeted applications, generally reflect the value added in complex polymer chemistry, precision formulation and compounding, and the extensive application development services provided.

Advanced Engineered Materials has polymerization, compounding and research and technology centers in Germany, Brazil, China and the United States. In 2010, we announced the construction of a new 50,000 ton POM manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia through our Ibn Sina affiliate. This facility is expected to be completed in late 2015. In 2011, we opened a state-of-the art POM production facility in Frankfurt Hoechst Industrial Park, Germany. This new POM facility is the world's largest and is expected to meet the increased global demand for innovative specialty solutions in polymer-based products.

•Key Products

POM. Polyoxymethylene, also commonly known as polyacetal in the chemical industry, is sold by Advanced Engineered Materials under the trademarks Celcon®and Hostaform®. POM is used for mechanical parts in automotive applications, including fuel system components, and in electrical, medical and consumer applications such as drug delivery systems and gears for large appliances. Polyplastics Co., Ltd., our 45%-owned strategic venture ("Polyplastics"), and Korea Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd., our 50%-owned strategic venture ("KEPCO"), also manufacture POM and other engineering resins in the Asia-Pacific region.

The primary raw material for POM is formaldehyde, which is manufactured from methanol. Advanced Engineered Materials sources formaldehyde in the United States from our Acetyl Intermediates segment and manufactures formaldehyde in Germany from purchased methanol.

Ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene.Our ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene products, sold under the trademark GUR®,are highly engineered materials designed for heavy-duty industrial and automotive applications. They are used in items such as industrial conveyor belts, car battery separator panels, as well as specialty medical and consumer applications, such as sports prostheses and equipment. GUR®micro powder grades are used for high-performance filters, membranes, diagnostic devices, coatings and additives for thermoplastics and elastomers. High tenacity fibers based on GUR®ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene are also used in protective ballistic applications. The primary raw material for GUR®ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene is ethylene.

Polyesters.Our products include a series of thermoplastic polyesters including Celanex®PBT, Celanex®PET, Thermx®PCT and Vandar®, as well as Riteflex®, a thermoplastic polyester elastomer. They are used in a wide variety of automotive, electrical and consumer applications, including ignition system parts, radiator grilles, electrical switches, appliance and sensor housings, light emitting diodes ("LEDs") and technical fibers.

LCP.Liquid crystal polymers, such as Vectra®and Zenite®, are primarily used in electrical and electronics applications for precision parts with thin walls and complex shapes. They are also used in high heat cookware applications. Raw materials for LCP include acetic anhydride, which is sourced from our Acetyl Intermediates segment, and monomers such as hydroxybenzoic acid.

LFT.Celstran®and Compel®are long-fiber reinforced thermoplastics that impart extra strength and stiffness, making them more suitable for larger parts than conventional thermoplastics. Both products are used in automotive, transportation and industrial applications, such as instrument panels, consoles and front end modules. The primary raw materials for LFT include polypropylene and a variety of fibers such as glass, stainless steel and carbon.












•Geographic Regions

The following table illustrates the destination of the net sales of the Advanced Engineered Materials segment by geographic region.

Net Sales to External Customers by Destination — Advanced Engineered MaterialsYear Ended December 31,201220112010$% ofSegment$% ofSegment$% ofSegment(In millions, except percentages)North America47838%43834%38434%Europe and Africa52842%62248%53048%Asia-Pacific20616%19115%15214%South America494%473%434%Total1,2611,2981,109

•Customers

Advanced Engineered Materials' principal customers are original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers serving the automotive, industrial, consumer and medical industries. By collaborating with its customers, Advanced Engineered Materials assists in developing and improving specialized applications and systems. Advanced Engineered Materials has long-standing relationships with most of its major customers. In addition, it utilizes distribution partners as well as online tools to expand its customer base. Contracts with customers for most Advanced Engineered Materials products typically have a term of one to two years.

Advanced Engineered Materials' sales in Asia are made directly and through distributors, including its strategic affiliates. These affiliates, Polyplastics, KEPCO and Fortron Industries LLC, our 50%-owned strategic venture with Kureha Corporation ("Fortron"), are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and therefore not included in Advanced Engineered Materials' consolidated net sales. If Advanced Engineered Materials' portion of the sales made by these strategic affiliates were included in the table above, the percentage of sales sold in Asia-Pacific would be substantially higher. In addition to our Advanced Engineered Materials' strategic affiliates, we directly service Asian demand by offering our customers global solutions.

•Competition

Advanced Engineered Materials' principal competitors include BASF AG, E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company, DSM N.V., SABIC Innovative Plastics and Solvay S.A. Other regional competitors include Asahi Kasei Corporation, Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc., Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, L.P., Braskem S.A., Lanxess AG, Teijin, Sumitomo Corporation and Toray Industries Inc.

Consumer Specialties

The Consumer Specialties segment includes our Acetate Products and Nutrinova businesses, which serve consumer-driven applications. These businesses deliver growth primarily through manufacturing productivity, geographic expansions and targeting high value opportunities in diverse applications, and generally are not dependent on gross domestic product.

Our Acetate Products business is a leading producer and supplier of acetate flake, acetate film and acetate tow, primarily used in filter products applications. We also hold an approximately 30% ownership interest in three separate ventures in China that produce acetate flake and tow. China National Tobacco Corporation, a Chinese state-owned tobacco entity, has been our venture partner for over two decades and has driven successful growth in our Acetate business.

During 2012, the Company introduced CelFXTMmatrix technology, which redefines tobacco filtration performance, enabling unique product attributes and innovation, such as increased filter design flexibility and improved constituent reduction. CelFXTMalso supports a broad choice of enhancement additives and is engineered to run on existing equipment.












Acetate Products has production sites in the United States, Mexico, the United Kingdom and Belgium, along with sites at its three acetate ventures in China. In November 2012, we ceased manufacturing acetate tow and acetate flake at our Spondon, Derby, United Kingdom site. We will continue to manufacture our Clarifoil®film at this facility.

Our Nutrinova business is a leading international supplier of premium quality ingredients for the food, beverage and pharmaceutical industries. The company produces and sells Sunett®(acesulfame potassium), a high intensity sweetener. It is also one of the world's largest producers of food protection ingredients, such as potassium sorbates and sorbic acid. Nutrinova's expertise is based on its more than sixty years of experience in developing and marketing specialty ingredients to the food and beverage and pharmaceutical industries. While this business has traditionally focused on providing low calorie sweeteners in the beverage industry, it continues to target high value opportunities in more diverse applications such as oral hygiene, pharmaceuticals, dairy and cereals.

During 2012, Nutrinova announced Sunett®SL, the first new line of product from the Nutrinova's SunsationSMplatform. Sunett®SL products are drop-in solutions that can be easily incorporated into customers' food and beverage formulations, helping customers bring products to market faster. Sensory tests carried out by an accredited external institute confirm that Sunett®SL significantly improves the sweetness and mouth-feel perception of sugar-free and sugar-reduced products.

Nutrinova has a production facility in Germany, with sales and distribution facilities in all major regions of the world.

•Key Products

Acetate flake, acetate tow and acetate film (Clarifoil). Acetate tow is a fiber used primarily in cigarette filters. In order to produce acetate tow, we first produce acetate flake by processing wood pulp with acetic acid and acetic anhydride. Wood pulp generally comes from reforested trees and is purchased externally from a variety of sources, and acetic anhydride is an intermediate chemical that we produce from acetic acid. The acetate flake is then further processed into acetate tow. Flake can also be solvent cast to create a film which is primarily used in packaging for food and high-end luxury goods.

Sales of acetate tow amounted to15%,14%and15%of our consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2012,2011and2010, respectively.

Sunett®sweeteners.Acesulfame potassium, a high intensity sweetener sold under the trademark Sunett®, is used in a variety of beverages, confections and dairy products throughout the world. Sunett®sweetener is the ideal blending partner for caloric and non-caloric sweeteners and is recognized for its consistent product quality and reliable supply.

Food protection ingredients.Nutrinova's food protection ingredients are mainly used in foods, beverages and personal care products. Sorbates pricing is extremely sensitive to demand and industry capacity and is not necessarily dependent on the cost of raw materials.

•Geographic Regions

The following table illustrates the destination of the net sales of the Consumer Specialties segment by geographic region.

Net Sales to External Customers by Destination — Consumer SpecialtiesYear Ended December 31,201220112010$% ofSegment$% ofSegment$% ofSegment(In millions, except percentages)North America20017%18016%18617%Europe and Africa46439%45940%44841%Asia-Pacific45238%45639%39436%South America666%635%616%Total(1)1,1821,1581,089___________________________

(1)Excludes inter-segment sales of$4 million,$3 millionand$9 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2012,2011and2010, respectively.












•Customers

Acetate tow is sold principally to the major tobacco companies that account for a majority of worldwide cigarette production. Contracts with most of our customers are generally entered into on an annual basis.

Customers of Clarifoil®include printers, carton manufacturers, retailers, packaging buyers, publishers and designers.

Nutrinova primarily sells Sunett®sweeteners to a limited number of large multinational and regional customers in the beverage and food industry under long-term and annual contracts. Nutrinova sells food protection ingredients primarily through regional distributors to small and medium sized customers and directly to large multinational customers in the food industry.

•Competition

Acetate Products’ principal competitors include Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd., Eastman Chemical Corporation and Solvay S.A.

The principal competitors for Sunett®sweetener include The NutraSweet Company, Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Tate & Lyle PLC and several Chinese manufacturers. In sorbates, Nutrinova competes with Nantong AA, Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd. and other Chinese manufacturers.

Industrial Specialties

The Industrial Specialties segment, which includes the Emulsions and EVA Performance Polymers businesses, is active in every major global industrial sector and serves diverse industrial and consumer end-use applications. These include traditional vinyl-based end uses, such as paints and coatings and adhesives, as well as other unique, high-value end uses including solar cells and medical applications.

The Emulsions business is a leading global producer of vinyl acetate-based emulsions and develops products and application technologies to improve performance, create value and drive innovation in applications such as paints and coatings, adhesives, construction, glass fiber, textiles and paper. The business has manufacturing facilities in major global regions and is supported by expert technical service regionally. Celanese emulsion products are sold under globally and regionally recognized brands including EcoVAE®, Mowilith®, Vinamul®, Celvolit®, BriteCoat®, TufCORTMand AvicorTM. The Emulsions business has production sites in the United States, Canada, China, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands and Germany.

EVA Performance Polymers is a leading North American manufacturer of a full range of low-density polyethylene and specialty EVA resins and compounds. Sold under the Ateva®and VitalDose®brands, these products are used in many applications, including flexible packaging films, lamination film products, hot melt adhesives, medical products, automotive, carpeting and photovoltaic cells. EVA Performance Polymers has a production facility in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

The Industrial Specialties segment builds on our leading acetyl technology. Our Acetyl Intermediates segment produces VAM, a primary raw material for our Emulsions and EVA Performance Polymers businesses. Ethylene, another key raw material, is purchased externally from a variety of sources.

Our Industrial Specialties businesses have experienced significant growth in Asia, and we have made investments to support continued growth in the region. In 2011, we doubled the VAE capacity at our integrated chemical complex in Nanjing, China to meet the increased global demand for innovative specialty solutions in vinyl-based emulsions.

In addition to geographic growth, the Industrial Specialties businesses are focused on innovation efforts to increase value. The business segment has successfully launched new innovative products and technologies in non-traditional applications such as medical, carpet, textiles and paper.

•Key Products

Our Emulsions business produces conventional vinyl- and acrylate-based emulsions and VAE. Emulsions are made from VAM, ethylene, acrylate esters and styrene. VAE is a key component of water-based architectural coatings, adhesives, non-wovens, textiles, glass fiber and other applications.

EVA Performance Polymers produces low-density polyethylene and EVA resins and compounds. EVA resins and compounds are produced in high-pressure reactors from ethylene and VAM.












•Geographic Regions

The following table illustrates the destination of the net sales of the Industrial Specialties segment by geographic region.

Net Sales to External Customers by Destination — Industrial SpecialtiesYear Ended December 31,201220112010$% ofSegment$% ofSegment$% ofSegment(in millions, except percentages)North America47540%49240%45043%Europe and Africa48341%55045%48147%Asia-Pacific21318%16914%979%South America131%121%81%Total1,1841,2231,036

•Customers

Industrial Specialties' products are sold to a diverse group of regional and multinational customers. Customers for emulsions products are manufacturers of water-based paints and coatings, adhesives, paper, building and construction products, glass fiber, non-wovens and textiles. Customers for EVA Performance Polymers products are engaged in the manufacture of a variety of products, including hot melt adhesives, automotive components, solar energy products, thermal laminations, flexible and food packaging materials, medical packaging and controlled-release medical devices.

•Competition

Principal competitors for the Emulsions business include The Dow Chemical Company, BASF AG, Dairen Chemical, Wacker Chemie AG and several smaller regional manufacturers.

Principal competitors for the EVA Performance Polymers business include E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company, ExxonMobil Chemical, Arkema and several Asian manufacturers.

Acetyl Intermediates

Our Acetyl Intermediates segment produces and supplies acetyl products, including acetic acid, VAM, acetic anhydride and acetate esters. These products are generally used as starting materials for colorants, paints, adhesives, coatings and medicines. Other chemicals produced in this business segment are organic solvents and intermediates for pharmaceutical, agricultural and chemical products.

As an industry leader, Acetyl Intermediates has built on its leading technology, an advantaged feedstock position and attractive competitive position to drive growth. With decades of experience, advanced proprietary process technology and favorable production costs, we are a leading global producer of acetic acid and VAM. Our production of acetyl products employs our leading proprietary and licensed technologies, including AOPlus®, AOPlus®2 and AOPlus®3 technologies for the production of acetic acid and VAntage®, VAntagePlusTMand VAntage®2 VAM technologies. Our technology is expected to enhance production efficiency and lower operating costs. AOPlus®3 technology, introduced in 2011, extends our historical technology advantage and enables us to construct a greenfield acetic acid facility with a capacity of 1.8 million tons at a lower capital cost. VAntage®2 technology, also introduced in 2011, could increase VAM capacity by 50% to meet growing customer demand globally. We believe our production technology is among the lowest cost in the industry and provides us with global growth opportunities through low cost expansions and a cost advantage over our competitors. Acetyl Intermediates has production sites in the United States, China, Mexico, Singapore, Spain, France and Germany.

Building on our acetic acid technology platform, we developed Celanese TCX®ethanol process technology to supply current and prospective customers with ethanol for industrial purposes and for other potential uses. Industrial ethanol is used in chemical and industrial applications for the manufacture of paints, coatings, inks and pharmaceuticals. This innovative, new process combines our proprietary and leading acetyl platform with advanced manufacturing technology to produce ethanol from hydrocarbon-sourced feedstocks.












In 2012, we completed construction of a technology development unit for ethanol production at our facility in Clear Lake, Texas which will allow us to continue the advancement of our acetyl and TCX®technologies. In addition, we are in the process of modifying and enhancing our existing integrated acetyl facility in Nanjing, China with our TCX®advanced technology. The modifications would add approximately 275,000 tons of ethanol production capacity by mid-2013. We also intend to construct one, and possibly two, additional industrial ethanol complexes in China, following necessary approvals, utilizing Celanese TCX®ethanol process technology to help supply applications for the growing Asia region.

•Key Products

Acetyl Products.Acetyl products include acetic acid, VAM, acetic anhydride and acetaldehyde. Acetic acid is primarily used to manufacture VAM, purified terephthalic acid and other acetyl derivatives. VAM is used in a variety of adhesives, paints, films, coatings and textiles. Acetic anhydride is a raw material used in the production of cellulose acetate, detergents and pharmaceuticals. Acetaldehyde is a major feedstock for the production of a variety of derivatives, such as pyridines, which are used in agricultural products. We manufacture acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride for our own use, as well as for sale to third parties.

Acetic acid and VAM, our basic acetyl intermediates products, are impacted by global supply and demand fundamentals and are cyclical in nature. The principal raw materials in these products are: carbon monoxide, which we generally purchase under long-term contracts; methanol, which we generally purchase under both long-term and short-term contracts; and ethylene, which we purchase from numerous sources. Generally, methanol and ethylene are commodity products available from a wide variety of sources.

Sales from acetyl products amounted to32%of our consolidated net sales for the year endedDecember 31, 2012and34%for each of the years endedDecember 31, 2011and2010.

Solvents and Derivatives.We manufacture a variety of solvents, formaldehyde and other chemicals, which in turn are used in the manufacture of paints, coatings, adhesives and other products. Many solvents and derivatives products are derived from our production of acetic acid. Primary products are:

•Ethyl acetate, an acetate ester that is a solvent used in coatings, inks and adhesives and in the manufacture of photographic films and coated papers;

•Butyl acetate, an acetate ester that is a solvent used in inks, pharmaceuticals and perfume;

•Formaldehyde, paraformaldehyde and formcels, which are primarily used to produce adhesive resins for plywood, particle board, coatings, POM engineering resins and a compound used in making polyurethane; and

•Other chemicals, such as crotonaldehyde, which are used by the Nutrinova business for the production of sorbates, as well as raw materials for the fragrance and food ingredients industry.

Sales from solvents and derivatives products amounted to11%,12%and11%of our consolidated net sales for the years endedDecember 31, 2012,2011and2010, respectively.






























•Geographic Regions

The following table illustrates net sales by destination of the Acetyl Intermediates segment by geographic region.

Net Sales to External Customers by Destination — Acetyl IntermediatesYear Ended December 31,201220112010$% ofSegment$% ofSegment$% ofSegment(In millions, except percentages)North America69825%71723%65424%Europe and Africa97035%1,11036%89734%Asia-Pacific1,02637%1,16638%1,04639%South America973%903%853%Total(1)2,7913,0832,682___________________________

(1)Excludes inter-segment sales of$440 million,$468 millionand$400 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2012,2011and2010, respectively.

•Customers

Acetyl Intermediates markets its products both directly to customers and through distributors. Acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride are global businesses which have several large customers. Generally, we supply these global customers under multi-year contracts. Acetic acid, VAM and acetic anhydride customers produce polymers used in water-based paints, adhesives, paper coatings, polyesters, film modifiers, pharmaceuticals, cellulose acetate and textiles. We have long-standing relationships with most of these customers.

Solvents and derivatives are sold to a diverse group of regional and multinational customers under multi-year contracts and on the basis of long-standing relationships. Solvents and derivatives customers are primarily engaged in the production of paints, coatings and adhesives. We manufacture formaldehyde for our own use as well as for sale to a few regional customers that include manufacturers in the wood products and chemical derivatives industries. The sale of formaldehyde is based on long- and short-term agreements. Specialty solvents are sold globally to a wide variety of customers, primarily in the coatings and resins and the specialty products industries. These products serve global regions in the synthetic lubricant, agrochemical, rubber processing and other specialty chemical areas.

•Competition

Our principal competitors in the Acetyl Intermediates segment include Atofina S.A., BASF AG, BP PLC, Chang Chun Petrochemical Co., Ltd., Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd., The Dow Chemical Company, Eastman Chemical Corporation, E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company, LyondellBasell Industries, Nippon Gohsei, Perstorp Inc., Jiangsu Sopo Corporation (Group) Ltd., Showa Denko K.K., Kuraray Co. Ltd. and other Chinese producers.

Other Activities

Other Activities primarily consists of corporate center costs, including financing and administrative activities such as legal, accounting and treasury functions, interest income and expense associated with our financing activities, and our captive insurance companies. Our two wholly-owned captive insurance companies are a key component of our global risk management program, as well as a form of self-insurance for our liability and workers compensation risks. The captive insurance companies issue insurance policies to our subsidiaries to provide consistent coverage amid fluctuating costs in the insurance market and to lower long-term insurance costs through the reduction of certain fees and expenses. The captive insurance companies retain risk at levels approved by management and obtain reinsurance coverage from third parties to limit the net risk retained. One of the captive insurance companies also insures certain third-party risks.












Strategic Affiliates

Our strategic affiliates represent an important component of our strategy for accelerated growth and global expansion. We have a substantial portfolio of ventures in various regions, including Asia-Pacific, North America, the Middle East and Europe. These ventures, some of which date back as far as the 1960s, have sizeable operations and are significant within their industries.

Our strategic affiliates have similar growth patterns and business models as our core businesses. With shared characteristics such as products, applications, and manufacturing technology, these strategic affiliates complement and extend our technology and specialty materials portfolio. We have historically entered into these investments to gain access to local demand, minimize costs and accelerate growth in areas we believe have significant future business potential. Depending on the level of investment and other factors, we account for our strategic ventures using either the equity method or cost method of accounting.

Our strategic affiliates contribute substantial sales, earnings and cash flows. During the year endedDecember 31, 2012, our equity affiliates generated combined sales of $5 billion, resulting in the Company recording$242 millionof equity in net earnings of affiliates in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for the year endedDecember 31, 2012.

Our key strategic affiliatesas ofDecember 31, 2012are as follows:LocationOwnershipPartner(s)YearEnteredEquity Method InvestmentsAdvanced Engineered MaterialsNational Methanol CompanySaudi Arabia25 %Saudi Basic Industries Corporation / Texas Eastern Arabian Corporation Ltd.1981Korea Engineering Plastics Co., LtdSouth Korea50 %Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc./Mitsubishi Corporation1999Polyplastics Co., Ltd.Japan45 %Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd.1964Fortron Industries LLCUS50 %Kureha Corporation1992Cost Method InvestmentsConsumer SpecialtiesKunming Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30 %China National Tobacco Corporation1993Nantong Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China31 %China National Tobacco Corporation1986Zhuhai Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd.China30 %China National Tobacco Corporation1993

National Methanol Company (Ibn Sina).National Methanol Company represents approximately 1% of the world's methanol production capacity and is one of the world's largest producers of methyl tertiary-butyl ether ("MTBE"), a gasoline additive. Its production facilities are located in Saudi Arabia. We indirectly own a 25% interest in Ibn Sina through CTE Petrochemicals Company, a 50%/50% joint venture with Texas Eastern Arabian Corporation Ltd. (which also indirectly owns a 25% interest). The remaining 50% interest in Ibn Sina is held by the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC"). SABIC is responsible for all product marketing. Because methanol is a key feedstock for POM production, we enjoy an advantaged position through our Ibn Sina venture that mitigates the impact of raw material and energy volatility.

In April 2010, we announced that Ibn Sina will construct a 50,000 ton POM production facility in Saudi Arabia. The new facility will supply POM to support Advanced Engineered Materials' accelerated future growth plans as well as our venture partners' regional business development. Upon successful startup of the POM facility, our indirect economic interest in Ibn Sina will increase from 25% to 32.5%. SABIC's economic interest will remain unchanged.

Korea Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd.KEPCO is the leading producer of POM in South Korea. KEPCO is a venture between Celanese Holdings B.V. (50% ownership and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Celanese GmbH), Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. (40%) and Mitsubishi Corporation (10%). KEPCO has polyacetal production facilities in Ulsan, South Korea, compounding facilities for PBT and nylon in Pyongtaek, South Korea, and participates with Polyplastics and Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company, Inc. in a world-scale POM facility in Nantong, China.












Polyplastics Co., Ltd.Polyplastics is a leading supplier of engineered plastics in the Asia-Pacific region and is a venture between Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd., Japan (55%) and Ticona LLC (45% ownership and a wholly-owned subsidiary of CNA Holdings LLC). Polyplastics is a producer and marketer of POM and LCP,  with principal production facilities located in Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia and China.

Fortron Industries LLC.Fortron is a leading global producer of polyphenylene sulfide ("PPS"), sold under the Fortron®brand, which is used in a wide variety of automotive and other applications, especially those requiring heat and/or chemical resistance. Fortron is a limited liability company whose members are Ticona Fortron Inc. (50% ownership and a wholly-owned subsidiary of CNA Holdings LLC) and Kureha Corporation (50%). Fortron's facility is located in Wilmington, North Carolina. This venture combines the sales, marketing, distribution, compounding and manufacturing expertise of Celanese with the PPS polymer technology expertise of Kureha.

China acetate strategic ventures.We hold ownership interest in three separate acetate production ventures in China as follows: Nantong Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd. (31%), Kunming Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd. (30%) and Zhuhai Cellulose Fibers Co. Ltd. (30%). The China National Tobacco Corporation, the Chinese state-owned tobacco entity, controls the remaining ownership interest in each of these ventures.

Our Chinese acetate ventures fund their operations using operating cash flow and pay a dividend in the second quarter of each fiscal year based on the ventures' performance for the preceding year. In2012,2011and2010, we received cash dividends of$83 million,$78 millionand$71 million, respectively.

During 2012, our venture's Nantong facility completed an expansion of its acetate flake and acetate tow capacity, each by 30,000 tons. We made contributions of $29 million over three years related to the capacity expansion in Nantong. Similar expansions since the ventures were formed have led to earnings growth and increased dividends for the Company.

According to the Euromonitor database services, China is estimated to have a 42% share of the world's 2011 cigarette consumption and is the fastest growing area for cigarette consumption at an estimated growth rate of 3.5% per year from 2011 through 2016. Combined, these ventures are a leader in Chinese domestic acetate production and we believe we are well positioned to supply Chinese cigarette producers.

Although our ownership interest in each of our China acetate ventures exceeds 20%, we account for these investments using the cost method of accounting because we determined that we cannot exercise significant influence over these entities due to local government investment in and influence over these entities, limitations on our involvement in the day-to-day operations and the present inability of the entities to provide timely financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("US GAAP").

•Other Equity Method Investments

InfraServs.We hold indirect ownership interests in several German InfraServ Groups that own and develop industrial parks and provide on-site general and administrative support to tenants. Our ownership interest in the equity investments in InfraServ ventures are as follows:As of December 31, 2012(In percentages)InfraServ GmbH & Co. Gendorf KG39InfraServ GmbH & Co. Knapsack KG27InfraServ GmbH & Co. Hoechst KG32

Raw Materials and Energy

We purchase a variety of raw materials and energy from sources in many countries for use in our production processes. We have a policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for materials. However, some of our individual plants may have single sources of supply for some of their raw materials, such as carbon monoxide, steam and acetaldehyde. Although we have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials, there can be no assurance that unforeseen developments will not affect our raw material supply. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for a raw material, there can be no assurance that these sources can make up for the loss of a major supplier. It is also possible profitability will be adversely affected if we are required to qualify additional sources of supply to our specifications in the event of the loss of a sole supplier. In addition, the price of raw materials varies, often substantially, from year to year.












A substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as supply and demand fundamentals change. Our production facilities rely largely on natural gas, coal, fuel oil and electricity for energy. We manage our exposure to commodity risk primarily through the use of long-term supply agreements, multi-year purchasing and sales agreements and forward purchase contracts.

We also currently purchase and lease supplies of various precious metals, such as rhodium, used as catalysts for the manufacture of Acetyl Intermediates products. For precious metals, the leases are normally distributed among multiple lessors for each product.

Research and Development

Our businesses are innovation-oriented and conduct research and development activities to develop new, and optimize existing, production technologies, as well as to develop commercially viable new products and applications. We consider the amounts spent during each of the last three fiscal years on research and development activities to be sufficient to execute our current strategic initiatives.

Intellectual Property

We attach importance to protecting our intellectual property, including through patents, trademarks, copyrights and product designs in order to preserve our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Patents may cover processes, products, intermediate products and product uses. We also seek to register trademarks as a means of protecting the brand names of our products. We protect our intellectual property against infringement and also seek to register design protection where appropriate.

Patents.In most industrial countries, patent protection exists for new substances and formulations, as well as for certain unique applications and production processes. However, we do business in regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. We maintain strict information security policies and procedures wherever we do business. Such information security policies and procedures include data encryption, controls over the disclosure and safekeeping of confidential information, as well as employee awareness training. Moreover, we monitor competitive developments and defend against infringements on our intellectual property rights.

Trademarks.AOPlus®, AOPlus®2, AOPlus®3, VAntage®, VAntagePlusTM, VAntage®2, BuyTiconaDirectTM, Celanex®, Celcon®, Celstran®, CelFXTM, Celvolit®, Clarifoil®, Compel®, GUR®, Hostaform®, Impet®, Mowilith®, Nutrinova®, Riteflex®, Sunett®, SunsationSM, Thermx®, Zenite®, Vandar®, Vectra®, Vinamul®, EcoVAE®, Duroset®, Ateva®, Acetex®, TCX®, VitalDose®, BriteCoat®and certain other branded products and services named in this document are registered or reserved trademarks or service marks owned or licensed by Celanese. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive or comprehensive list of all registered or reserved trademarks and service marks owned or licensed by Celanese. Fortron®is a registered trademark of Fortron.

Neither Celanese nor any particular business segment is materially dependent upon any one patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret.

Environmental and Other Regulation

Matters pertaining to environmental and other regulations are discussed inItem 1A. Risk Factors,Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Accounting for Commitments and Contingencies, andNote 15 - EnvironmentalandNote 23 - Commitments and Contingenciesin the accompanying consolidated financial statements.












Employees

The approximate number of employees employed by Celanese on a continuing basis throughout the world is as follows:Employees as ofDecember 31, 2012North AmericaUS2,750Canada250Mexico600Total3,600EuropeGermany1,600Other Europe1,250Total2,850Asia1,050Rest of World50Total7,550

Backlog

We do not consider backlog to be a significant indicator of the level of future sales activity. In general, we do not manufacture our products against a backlog of orders. Production and inventory levels are based on the level of incoming orders as well as projections of future demand. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to understanding our overall business and should not be considered a reliable indicator of our ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance.

Available Information — Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Filings and Corporate Governance Materials

We make available free of charge, through our internet website (http://www.celanese.com), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as ownership reports on Form 3 and Form 4, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. References to our website in this report are provided as a convenience, and the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Celanese Corporation, that electronically file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

We also make available free of charge, through our internet website, our Corporate Governance Guidelines of our Board of Directors and the charters of each of the committees of the Board.



