Item 1.Business

General

We are a consumer goods company with a portfolio of leading
apparel brands, includingHanes,Champion,Bali,Playtex,Just My Size,L’eggs,barely there,Wonderbra,Gear for Sports,Stedman,Zorba,Rinbros,Sol y
Oro,Outer BanksandDuofold. We design, manufacture, source and sell a broad range of basic apparel such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, casualwear, activewear, socks and hosiery.

The basic apparel sector of the apparel industry is characterized by frequently replenished items, such as T-shirts, bras,
panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, socks and hosiery. Growth and sales in the basic apparel sector are not primarily driven by fashion, in contrast to other areas of the broader apparel industry. We focus on the core attributes of
comfort, fit and value, while remaining current with regard to consumer trends. The majority of our core styles continue from year to year, with variations only in color, fabric or design details. Some products, however, such as intimate apparel,
activewear and sheer hosiery, do have more of an emphasis on style and innovation. We continue to invest in our largest and strongest brands to achieve our long-term growth goals. In addition to designing and marketing basic apparel, we have a long
history of operating a global supply chain that incorporates a mix of self-manufacturing, third party contractors and third party sourcing.

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. All references to “2011,” “2010” and “2009” relate to the fiscal years ended on December 31,
2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively.

Our operations are managed and reported in five
operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Outerwear, Hosiery, Direct to Consumer and International. These segments are organized principally by product category, geographic location and
distribution channel. Each segment has its own management that is responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses but the segments share a common supply chain and media and marketing platforms. The following table summarizes our
operating segments by category:



SegmentPrimary ProductsPrimary BrandsInnerwearIntimate apparel, such as bras, panties and shapewearHanes, Bali, Playtex, barely there, Just My Size, WonderbraMen’s underwear and kids’ underwearHanes, Polo Ralph Lauren*SocksHanes, ChampionOuterwearActivewear, such as performance T-shirts and shorts, fleece, sports bras and thermalsChampion, Gear for Sports, DuofoldCasualwear, such as T-shirts, fleece and sport shirtsHanes, Just My Size, Champion, Hanes Beefy-T, Outer BanksHosieryHosieryL’eggs, Hanes, Donna Karan,* DKNY,* Just My SizeDirect to ConsumerActivewear, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, intimate apparel, socks, hosiery and casualwearHanes, Bali, Champion, Playtex, barely there, Just My Size, L’eggsInternationalActivewear, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, intimate apparel, socks, hosiery and casualwearHanes, Champion, Wonderbra,** Playtex,** Stedman, Zorba, Kendall,* Rinbros, Sol y Oro, Ritmo, Track N Field









*Brand used under a license agreement.

**As a result of the February 2006 sale of the European branded apparel business of Sara Lee Corporation, or “Sara Lee,” we are not permitted to sell this brand
in the member states of the European Union, or the “EU,” several other European countries and South Africa.

Our brands have a strong heritage in the basic apparel industry. According to The NPD Group/Consumer Tracking Service, or “NPD,” our brands held either the number one or number two U.S. market
position by units sold in most product categories in which we compete, for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011.

Our products are sold through multiple distribution channels. During 2011, approximately 41% of our net sales were to mass merchants in
the United States, 14% were to national chains and department stores in the United States, 13% were in our International segment, 8% were in our Direct to Consumer segment in the United States and 24% were to other retail channels in the United
States such as embellishers, specialty retailers, wholesale clubs, collegiate bookstores, discount retailers and sporting goods stores. We have strong, long-term relationships with our top customers, including relationships of more than 10 years
with each of our top 10 customers. The size and operational scale of the high-volume retailers with which we do business require extensive category and product knowledge and specialized services regarding the quantity, quality and planning of
product orders. We have organized multifunctional customer management teams, which has allowed us to form strategic long-term relationships with these customers and efficiently focus resources on category, product and service expertise. We also have
customer-specific programs such as theC9 by Championproducts marketed and sold through Target stores.

Our ability to
react to changing customer needs and industry trends is key to our success. Our design, research and product development teams, in partnership with our marketing teams, drive our efforts to bring innovations to market. We seek to leverage our
insights into consumer demand in the basic apparel industry to develop new products within our existing lines and to modify our existing core products in ways that make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs and industry trends.
Examples of our recent innovations include:



•Champion Seamless Adjustablesports bras that combine the comfort of a seamless bra with the adjustability and back close of a traditional bra
to deliver maximum support (2012).



•Hanes Comfort Toe Seamsocks that were developed with patented knitting technology that enables the toe seam to lay completely flat for all-day
comfort (2011).



•barely there No Slip Fitbras that are designed with a unique Lycra®lining on the back band and straps that have a delicate silicone design to help the bras stay in place, eliminating unexpected slips or slides (2011).



•barely there Dreamformbras that have the same support and design features as traditional cup and band bras but with the unsurpassed comfort for
whichbarely therehas become famous (2011).



•Bali Comfort Revolutionwirefree bras that are completely seamless and feature ultra-thin stretch foam cups and a soft comfort band to provide
fit, flexibility and comfort (2011).



•TheBali One Smooth U Powershapecollection that includes a lingerie-inspired shapewear designed with comfortable, lightweight Lycra®to help whittle the waist and flatten the tummy, slim the thighs and smooth lumps and bumps (2011).



•barely there Smart Sizes, a new bra sizing system that simplifies and streamlines the traditional bra sizing configuration from 16 sizes to just
five sizes with innovative, “shape to fit” technology (2010).



•TheWonderbra Secret Agent No Slip Fitcollection that includes bras that feature shaping stay-in-place back and no slip straps that secretly
work together to ensure everything stays comfortably in place all day (2010).



•Bali Comfort-Ubras with a feature that ensures that the straps and back stay in place, delivering the ultimate fit and comfort in a place most
women don’t think to look—the back (2010).







•Hanes Comfort Flexunderwear that features a softer, more stretchable waistband that comfortably shifts without pinching or binding (2010).



•Hanesdyed V-neck underwear T-shirts in black, gray and navy colors (2009).



•Playtex 18 Hour Seamlesssmoothing bras that feature fused fabric to smooth sides and back (2009).



•Bali Natural Upliftbras that feature advanced lift for the bust without adding size (2009).

Our Brands

Our
portfolio of leading brands is designed to address the needs and wants of various consumer segments across a broad range of basic apparel products. Each of our brands has a particular consumer positioning that distinguishes it from its competitors
and guides its advertising and product development. We discuss some of our most important brands in more detail below.

Hanesis the largest and most widely recognized brand in our portfolio. TheHanesbrand covers all of our product
categories, including men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, bras, panties, socks, T-shirts, fleece and sheer hosiery.Hanesstands for outstanding comfort, style and value. According to NPD,Hanesis the number one brand of total
apparel in the U.S. as well as the leading brand of men’s and boys’ underwear, women’s and girls’ panties, and socks for the family by units sold for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011.

Championis our second-largest brand. For over 90 years,Championhas been outfitting athletes in authentic, high-quality
athletic apparel. From high-performance sports bras and classic T-shirts to gym essentials like mesh shorts and fleece hoodies, our signatureDouble Dryfabric keeps athletes cool and dry, enhancing the workout experience. We believe thatChampion’s combination of comfort, fit and design provides athletes with mobility, durability and up-to-date styles, all product qualities that are important in the sale of athletic products. We also distributeC9 by Championproducts exclusively through Target stores.

Baliis the third-largest brand within our portfolio, offering a range of
bras, panties and shapewear sold in the department store channel.Playtex, the fourth-largest brand within our portfolio, offers a line of bras, panties and shapewear, including products that offer solutions for hard to fit figures. Our brand
portfolio also includes the following well-known brands:Just My Size, L’eggs,barely there,Wonderbra,Gear for SportsandOuter Banks.These brands serve to round out our product offerings, allowing us to
give consumers a variety of options to meet their diverse needs.

Our Segments

Innerwear

The Innerwear segment focuses on core apparel products, such as women’s intimate apparel, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear and socks, marketed under well-known brands that are trusted by
consumers. According to NPD, we are the women’s intimate apparel category leader in the United States with ourHanes,Bali,Playtex,barely there,Just My SizeandWonderbrabrands, and we are also the
leading manufacturer and marketer of men’s underwear and kids’ underwear under theHanesandPolo Ralph Laurenbrand names (based on NPD unit share for the 12 months ending November 30, 2011). During 2011, net sales from our
Innerwear segment were $2.1 billion, representing approximately 44% of total net sales.

Outerwear

We are a leader in the casualwear and activewear markets through ourHanes,Champion,Just My SizeandDuofoldbrands, where we sell products such as T-shirts and fleece to both retailers and wholesalers. Our casualwear lines offer a range of quality, comfortable clothing for men, women and children marketed under theHanesandJust My Sizebrands. TheJust My Sizebrand offers casual apparel designed exclusively to meet the needs of plus-size women. In addition to







activewear for men and women,Championprovides uniforms for athletic programs and includes an apparel program,C9 byChampion, at Target stores. We also license ourChampionname for footwear and sports accessories. In our wholesale casualwear category, which we sometimes refer to as “imagewear”, we supply our T-shirts, sport shirts and fleece products, including brands such asHanes,Champion,Outer BanksandHanes Beefy-T, to customers, primarily wholesalers, who then resell to screen printers and embellishers. In 2010, we acquired GearCo, Inc., known as Gear for Sports, a leading seller of licensed logo
apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels. During 2011, net sales from our Outerwear segment were $1.5 billion, representing approximately 31% of total net sales.

Hosiery

We are the leading marketer of women’s sheer hosiery
in the United States. We compete in the hosiery market by striving to offer superior values and executing integrated marketing activities, as well as focusing on the style of our hosiery products. We market hosiery products under ourL’eggs,HanesandJust My Sizebrands. During 2011, net sales from our Hosiery segment were $163 million, representing approximately 4% of total net sales.

Direct to Consumer

Our Direct to Consumer operations include our value-based (“outlet”) stores and Internet operations which sell products from our portfolio of leading brands. We sell our branded products
directly to consumers through our outlet stores, as well as our websites operating under theHanes,One Hanes Place,Just My SizeandChampionnames. Our Internet operations are supported by our catalogs. As of
December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, we had 216 and 224 outlet stores, respectively. During 2011, net sales from our Direct to Consumer segment were $375 million, representing approximately 8% of total net sales.

International

Our International segment includes products that span across the Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery reportable segments and are primarily marketed under theHanes,Champion,Wonderbra,Playtex,Stedman,Zorba,Rinbros,Kendall, Sol y Oro,RitmoandTrack N Fieldbrands. During 2011, net sales from our International segment were $581 million, representing approximately 13% of total
net sales and included sales in Latin America, Asia, Canada, Europe and Australia. Our largest international markets are Japan, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Brazil, and we have sales offices in India and China.

Design, Research and Product Development

At the core of our design, research and product development capabilities is an integrated team of over 325 professionals. A facility located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, is the center of our
research, technical design and product development efforts. We also employ creative design and product development personnel in our design center in New York City and design personnel at the Gear for Sports facility in Lenexa, Kansas. In 2011, 2010
and 2009, we spent approximately $47 million, $47 million and $46 million, respectively, on design, research and product development, including the development of new and improved products.

Customers

In 2011, approximately 87% of our net sales were to customers in
the United States and approximately 13% were to customers outside the United States. Domestically, almost 82% of our net sales were wholesale sales to retailers, 9% were direct to consumers and 9% were wholesale sales to wholesalers and third party
embellishers. We have well-established relationships with some of the largest apparel retailers in the world. Our largest customers are Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), Target Corporation (“Target”) and Kohl’s Corporation
(“Kohl’s”), accounting for 25%, 16% and 6%, respectively, of our total sales in 2011. As is common in the basic apparel industry, we generally do not have purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products.
However, all of our key customer relationships have been in place for 10 years or more. Wal-Mart, Target, Kohl’s, CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS”) and SanMar Corporation (“SanMar”) are our only customers with sales that
exceed 10% of any individual segment’s sales. In our Innerwear segment, Wal-Mart accounted for 39% of sales, Target accounted for 16% of sales and Kohl’s accounted for 11% of sales during 2011. In our Outerwear segment, Target accounted
for 27% of sales, Wal-Mart accounted for 15% of sales and SanMar accounted for 10% of sales during 2011. In our Hosiery segment, Wal-Mart accounted for 20% of sales, Target accounted for 13% of sales and CVS accounted for 10% of sales during 2011.







Due to their size and operational scale, high-volume retailers such as Wal-Mart and Target
require extensive category and product knowledge and specialized services regarding the quantity, quality and timing of product orders. We have organized multifunctional customer management teams, which has allowed us to form strategic long-term
relationships with these customers and efficiently focus resources on category, product and service expertise. Smaller regional customers attracted to our leading brands and quality products also represent an important component of our distribution.
Our organizational model provides for an efficient use of resources that delivers a high level of category and channel expertise and services to these customers.

Sales to the mass merchant channel in the United States accounted for approximately 41% of our net sales in 2011. We sell all of our product categories in this channel primarily under ourHanes,Champion,Just My SizeandPlaytexbrands. Mass merchants feature high-volume, low-cost sales of basic apparel items along with a diverse variety of consumer goods products, such as grocery and drug products and other hard
lines, and are characterized by large retailers, such as Wal-Mart. Our largest mass merchant customer is Wal-Mart, which accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales in 2011.

Sales to the national chains and department stores channel in the United States accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in 2011.
These retailers target a higher-income consumer than mass merchants, focus more of their sales on apparel items rather than other consumer goods such as grocery and drug products and are characterized by large retailers such as Kohl’s, JC
Penney Company, Inc. and Sears Holdings Corporation. We sell all of our product categories in this channel. Traditional department stores target higher-income consumers and carry more high-end, fashion conscious products than national chains or mass
merchants and tend to operate in higher-income areas and commercial centers. Traditional department stores are characterized by large retailers such as Macy’s, Inc. and Dillard’s, Inc. We sell products in our intimate apparel, hosiery,
socks, activewear and underwear categories through department stores.

Sales in our Direct to Consumer segment in the United
States accounted for approximately 8% of our net sales in 2011. We sell our branded products directly to consumers through our 216 outlet stores, as well as our websites operating under theHanes,One Hanes Place,Just My SizeandChampionnames. Our outlet stores are value-based, offering the consumer a savings of 25% to 40% off suggested retail prices, and sell first-quality, excess, post-season, obsolete and slightly imperfect products. Our websites, supported
by our catalogs, address the growing direct to consumer channel that operates in today’s 24/7 retail environment, and we have an active database of approximately 4.5 million consumers receiving our catalogs and emails.

Sales in our International segment represented approximately 13% of our net sales in 2011, and included sales in Latin America, Asia,
Canada, Europe and Australia. Our largest international markets are Japan, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Brazil. We also have sales offices in India and China and we operate in several locations in Latin America including Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and
Central America. From an export business perspective, we use distributors to service customers in the Middle East and Asia, and have a limited presence in Latin America. The brands that are the primary focus of the export business includeHanesandChampionsocks,Championactivewear,Hanesunderwear andBali,Playtex,Wonderbraandbarely thereintimate apparel. As discussed below under “Intellectual Property,” we are
not permitted to sellWonderbraandPlaytexbranded products in the member states of the EU, several other European countries and South Africa. For more information about our sales on a geographic basis, see Note 19 to our financial
statements.

Sales in other channels in the United States represented approximately 24% of our net sales in 2011. We sell
T-shirts, golf and sport shirts and fleece sweatshirts to wholesalers and third party embellishers primarily under ourHanes,Hanes Beefy-TandOuter Banksbrands. Sales to wholesalers and third party embellishers accounted for
approximately 8% of our net sales in 2011. We also sell a significant range of our underwear, activewear and socks products under theChampionbrand to wholesale clubs, such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, and sporting goods stores, such as
The Sports Authority, Inc. We sell primarily legwear and underwear products under theHanesandL’eggsbrands to food, drug and variety stores. We also sell licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores.We sell products
that span across our Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery segments to the U.S. military for sale to servicemen and servicewomen and through discount retailers, such as the Dollar General Corporation and Family Dollar Stores, Inc.







Inventory

Seasonality

Our operating results are subject to some variability due to seasonality and other factors. Generally, our diverse range of product
offerings helps mitigate the impact of seasonal changes in demand for certain items. We generally have higher sales during back-to-school shopping and holiday selling seasons and during periods of cooler weather which benefits certain product
categories such as fleece. Sales levels in any period are also impacted by customers’ decisions to increase or decrease their inventory levels in response to anticipated consumer demand. Our customers may cancel orders, change delivery
schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us. Media, advertising and promotion expenses (“MAP”) may vary from period to period during a fiscal year depending on the timing of our advertising campaigns for
retail selling seasons and product introductions.

Marketing

Our strategy is to bring consumer-driven innovation to market in a compelling way. Our approach is to build targeted, effective multimedia advertising and marketing campaigns to increase awareness of our
key brands. Driving growth platforms across categories is a major element of our strategy as it enables us to meet key consumer needs and leverage advertising dollars. We believe that the strength of our consumer insights, our distinctive brand
propositions and our focus on integrated marketing give us a competitive advantage in the fragmented apparel marketplace.

In
2011, we launched a number of new advertising and marketing initiatives:



•Hanesannounced a new Facebook application to share comfort with those who need it most. Fans ofHaneson Facebook were able to
personalize and send free virtual Comfort Packages to friends and family via a digital tool on theHanesFacebook page. For each package sent,Hanespledged to donate $1 to the National Breast Cancer Foundation, Inc. to promote early
cancer detection and provide mammograms for those in need.Haneshas given over $1 million to breast cancer awareness since 2009.



•L’eggslaunched a national marketing campaign featuring the iconic brand’s first national television advertising in more than 14 years
and a new tagline:You’re in luck. You’re in L’eggs. L’eggsalso announced a partnership with Dress for Success, an international not-for-profit organization that promotes the economic independence of disadvantaged women
by providing professional attire, a network of support and career development tools. As part of the partnership,L’eggswill donate up to 10,000 pairs of leg wear to Dress For Success through a virtual leg wear drive on Facebook.







•Haneslaunched new national television ads for its women’s intimate apparel, includingHanes ComfortFlex FitBras that shape to fit
andHanesNo Ride Up Panties that know their place and stay in place. The ads began airing on national network morning, daytime and primetime shows, as well as national cable shows, in April 2011 and continued throughout the year.



•Balilaunched its Live Beautifully Daily campaign, a national movement focused on helping women embrace how to Live Beautifully Daily through
the way they look and feel. As part of the movement’s kickoff,Balijoined with Jennifer Rade, one of the country’s top celebrity stylists, to encourage women to Live Beautifully Daily, as well as pledged to donate up to $50,000 to
its long-standing partner, The Breast Cancer Research Foundation, which plays a critical role in helping women with breast cancer Live Beautifully Daily.



•Hanesimagewear, a major supplier of T-shirts, sportshirts and fleece to the decorated apparel industry, announced a partnership with Box Tops
for Education that will enable schools across the United States to earn valuable Box Tops when they orderHanesproducts or apparel for their spiritwear and eventwear needs. The exclusive partnership, called Hanes4Education, is open to more
than 69,000 U.S. schools participating in the Box Tops for Education program and includes allHanesT-shirt styles as well as sport shirts and fleece items.

We also continued some of our existing advertising and marketing initiatives:



•Hanescontinued its men’s underwear marketing campaign starring Michael Jordan in support ofHanesunderwear with ComfortFlex
Waistbands and Lay Flat Collar T-Shirts. The campaign included a new series of television commercial showing thatHanesLay Flat Collar undershirts will never suffer from wavy “bacon necks” like other shirts and highlighting the
superior comfort of theHanesComfortFlex Waistband.



•Championcontinued its “How You Play” national advertising campaign. The campaign includes print, out-of-home and online components
and is designed to capture the enjoyment of sport and the love of the game.



•This spring,Championwill launchChampionSportBras.com, including an updated bra blog designed to spur online dialogue around all
things related to breast health and sports bras. The blog features comments and questions by women of all fitness levels from industry experts to first-time exercisers as well as the latest on emerging product innovations and style choices.



•Hanescontinued its “For Future Generations” national environmental advertising campaign which takes a lighthearted approach to the
brand’s environmental responsibility efforts, including eco-friendly products.



•We continued our television advertising campaign in support ofHanessocks for the family, highlighting the new Comfort Toe Seam feature.



•We continued our innovative and expressive advertising and marketing campaign called “Girl Talk,” in which confident, everyday women talk
about their breasts, in support of ourPlaytex 18 HourandPlaytex Secretsproduct lines.



•Hanesconducted its 3rd annual Holiday Sock Drive which encouraged its nearly two million Facebook fans to support a drive to contribute socks
to those in need through the Salvation Army.Haneshas contributed more than 1.7 million socks since 2009.



•Hanesdeveloped a Facebook sampling program to give its fans an opportunity to try the latest comfort innovations. For women, this included
weekly promotions such as Wedgie-Free Wednesdays (forHanesNo Ride Up panties), Happy Toe Tuesdays (forHanesComfort Toe Seam socks), and Comfort Flex Fit Fridays (forHanesComfort Flex Fit bras). For men, this included the
Comfort Challenge promotion encouraging men to try theHanesLay Flat Collar undershirt.







Distribution

As of December 31, 2011, we distributed our products from 36 distribution centers. These facilities include 15 facilities located in the United States and 21 facilities located outside the United
States in regions where we manufacture our products. We internally manage and operate 18 of these facilities, and we use third party logistics providers who operate the other 18 facilities on our behalf. International distribution operations use a
combination of third party logistics providers, as well as owned and operated distribution operations, to distribute goods to our various international markets.

Manufacturing and Sourcing

During 2011, approximately 66% of our finished
goods sold were manufactured through a combination of facilities we own and operate and facilities owned and operated by third party contractors who perform some of the steps in the manufacturing process for us, such as cutting and/or sewing. We
sourced the remainder of our finished goods from third party manufacturers who supply us with finished products based on our designs. We believe that our balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and
sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Hanesbrands

The manufacturing process for the finished goods that we manufacture begins with raw materials we obtain from suppliers. The principal raw
materials in our product categories are cotton and synthetics. Our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other factors, weather, consumer demand, speculation on
the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. We are able to lock in the cost of cotton reflected
in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the upward volatility of the market price of cotton. Under our agreements with these suppliers, we have the ability to periodically fix the
cotton cost component of our yarn purchases. When we elect to fix the cotton cost component under these agreements, interim fluctuations in the price of cotton do not impact the price we pay for the specified volume of yarn, and it is the yarn
suppliers’ responsibility to procure the cotton at the agreed upon pricing through arrangements they make with their cotton suppliers. In addition to cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles, we use thread, narrow elastic and trim for product
identification, buttons, zippers, snaps and lace.

Fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may also influence the prices
of items used in our business, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. Alternate sources of these materials and services are readily available. Cotton and synthetic materials are typically spun into yarn, which is then knitted into
cotton, synthetic and blended fabrics. We source all of our yarn requirements from large-scale suppliers. To a lesser extent, we purchase fabric from several domestic and international suppliers in conjunction with scheduled production. These
fabrics are cut and sewn into finished products, either by us or by third party contractors. Most of our cutting and sewing operations are strategically located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin.

Rising fuel, energy and utility costs may have a significant impact on our manufacturing costs. These costs may fluctuate due to a number
of factors outside our control, including government policy and regulation, foreign exchange rates and weather conditions.

We
currently operate 43 manufacturing facilities. In making decisions about the location of manufacturing operations and third party sources of supply, we consider a number of factors, including labor, local operating costs, quality, regional
infrastructure, applicable quotas and duties, and freight costs. For example, our textile production plant in Nanjing, China, enables us to expand and leverage our production scale in Asia as we balance our supply chain across hemispheres, thereby
diversifying our production risks.







Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Third Parties

In addition to our manufacturing capabilities, we also source finished goods we design from third party manufacturers, also referred to as
“turnkey products.” Many of these turnkey products are sourced from international suppliers by our strategic sourcing hubs in Hong Kong and other locations in Asia.

All contracted and sourced manufacturing must meet our high quality standards. Further, all contractors and third party manufacturers must be preaudited and adhere to our strict supplier and business
practices guidelines. These requirements provide strict standards covering hours of work, age of workers, health and safety conditions and conformity with local laws and Hanesbrands’ standards. Each new supplier must be inspected and agree to
comprehensive compliance terms prior to performance of any production on our behalf. We audit compliance with these standards and maintain strict compliance performance records. In addition to our audit procedures, we require certain of our
suppliers to be Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production, or “WRAP,” certified. WRAP is a recognized apparel certification program that independently monitors and certifies compliance with certain specified manufacturing standards that
are intended to ensure that a given factory produces sewn goods under lawful, humane and ethical conditions. WRAP uses third party, independent certification firms and requires factory-by-factory certification.

Geographic Financial Summary

For a summary of our operations by geographic area for each of the three most recent fiscal years, including revenues from external customers and long-lived assets, see Note 19 to our financial statements
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Trade Regulation

We are exposed to certain risks of doing business outside of the United States. We import goods into the United States and other countries from company-owned facilities in Asia, Central America, the
Caribbean Basin and Mexico, and from suppliers in those areas and in Europe, South America, Africa and the Middle East. These import transactions are subject to customs, trade and other laws and regulations governing their entry into the United
States and other countries and to tariffs applicable to such merchandise.

In addition, much of the merchandise we import is
subject to duty free entry into the United States under various trade preferences and/or free trade agreements provided the goods meet certain criteria and characteristics. Compliance with these specific requirements as well as all other
requirements is reviewed periodically by the United States Customs and Border Control and other governmental agencies.

Finally, imported apparel merchandise may be subject to various restrictive trade actions initiated by the United States government,
domestic industry, labor or other parties under various United States laws. Such actions could result in the United States government imposing additional tariffs or other restrictions against apparel under special safeguard actions applicable to
China, other safeguard actions applicable to any country, or antidumping or countervailing duties applicable to specific products from specific countries. Currently there are no such actions, additional, special or safeguard duties or quotas imposed
against products which we import into the United States. Our management evaluates the possible impact of these and similar actions on our ability to import products from China and other countries. If such safeguards or duties were to be imposed, we
do not expect that these restraints would have a material impact on us.

Our management monitors new developments and risks
relating to duties, tariffs and quotas. Changes in these areas have the potential to harm or, in some cases, benefit our business. In response to the changing import environment management has chosen to continue its balanced approach to
manufacturing and sourcing. We attempt to limit our sourcing exposure through geographic diversification with a mix of company-owned and contracted production, as well as shifts of production among countries and contractors. We intend to continue to
manage our supply chain from a global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global production environment.

We
also monitor a number of international security risks. We are a member of the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, or “C-TPAT,” a partnership between the government and private sector initiated after the events of
September 11, 2001 to improve supply chain and border security. C-TPAT partners work with U.S. Customs and Border Protection to protect their supply chains from concealment of terrorist weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. In
exchange, U.S. Customs and Border Protection provides reduced inspections at the port of arrival and expedited processing at the border.







Competition

The basic apparel market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Competition generally is based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. Our
businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., competes with us across most of our segments through its own offerings and those of its
Russell Corporation and Vanity Fair Intimates offerings. Other competitors in our Innerwear segment include Limited Brands, Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret brand, Jockey International, Inc., Warnaco Group Inc. and Maidenform Brands, Inc. Other
competitors in our Outerwear segment include various private label and controlled brands sold by many of our customers, Gildan Activewear, Inc. and Gap Inc. We also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including
our International segment. Additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands.

Our competitive strengths include our strong brands with leading market positions, our high-volume, core products focus, our significant
scale of operations, our global supply chain and our strong customer relationships.



•Strong brands with leading market positions.According to NPD, our brands held either the number one or number two U.S. market position by units
sold in most product categories in which we compete, and our largest brand,Hanes, was the top-selling apparel brand in the United States by units sold, for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011.



•High-volume, core products.We sell high-volume, frequently replenished basic apparel products. The majority of our core styles continue from
year to year, with variations only in color, fabric or design details, and are frequently replenished by consumers. We believe that our status as a high-volume seller of core basic apparel products creates a more stable and predictable revenue base
and reduces our exposure to dramatic fashion shifts often observed in the general apparel industry.



•Significant scale of operations.According to NPD, we are the largest seller of basic apparel in the United States as measured by units sold for
the 12-month period ended November 30, 2011. Most of our products are sold to large retailers that have high-volume demands. We believe that we are able to leverage our significant scale of operations to provide us with greater manufacturing
efficiencies, purchasing power and product design, marketing and customer management resources than our smaller competitors.



•Global supply chain.Our global supply chain provides us with a balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned,
contracted and sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply. Our global supply chain enables us to expand and
leverage our production scale as we balance our supply chain across hemispheres, thereby diversifying our production risks.



•Strong customer relationships.We sell our products primarily through large, high-volume retailers, including mass merchants, department stores
and national chains. We have strong, long-term relationships with our top customers, including relationships of more than 10 years with each of our top ten customers. We have aligned significant parts of our organization with corresponding parts of
our customers’ organizations. We also have entered into customer-specific programs such as theC9 by Championproducts marketed and sold through Target stores.







Intellectual Property

Overview

We market our products under hundreds of trademarks and
service marks in the United States and other countries around the world, the most widely recognized of which areHanes, Champion, C9 by Champion, Playtex, Bali, L’eggs, Just My Size, barely there,Wonderbra, Stedman, Outer Banks,
Zorba, Rinbros,DuofoldandGear for Sports.Some of our products are sold under trademarks that have been licensed from third parties, such asPolo Ralph Laurenmen’s underwear, and we also hold licenses from various
toy and media companies giving us the right to use certain of their proprietary characters, names and trademarks.

Champion

Playtex

Playtex

Playtex

Playtex

Wonderbra

Playtex

Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally remain valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are
properly maintained. Most of the trademarks in our portfolio, including our core brands, are covered by trademark registrations in the countries of the world in which we do business, in addition to many other jurisdictions around the world, with
registration periods generally ranging between seven and 10 years depending on the country. Generally, trademark registrations can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. We have an active program designed to ensure that our
trademarks are registered, renewed, protected and maintained. We plan to continue to use all of our core trademarks and plan to renew the registrations for such trademarks as needed. Most of our copyrights are unregistered, although we have a
sizable portfolio of copyrighted lace designs that are the subject of a number of registrations at the U.S. Copyright Office.

We place high importance on product innovation and design, and a number of these innovations and designs are the subject of patents.
However, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how that we have not patented.

Shared Trademark Relationship with Sun Capital

Wonderbra

Playtex

Wonderbra

Playtex

Wonderbra

Playtex

DIM

UNNO

DIM

DIM

UNNO

DIM

UNNO







Corporate Social Responsibility

We have a formal corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) program that consists of five core initiatives: a global ethics program
for all employees worldwide; a facility compliance program that seeks to ensure company and supplier plants meet our labor and social compliance standards; a product safety program; global environmental management and energy management systems that
seek to reduce the environmental impact of our operations; and a commitment to corporate philanthropy which seeks to meet the “fundamental needs” of the communities in which we live and work. We employ more than 15 full-time CSR personnel
across the world to manage our program.

Hanesbrands and its global social compliance program are fully accredited by the Fair
Labor Association (the “FLA”), a leading independent nongovernmental international workers’ rights organization. The FLA works with industry, civil society organizations and colleges and universities to protect workers’ rights
and improve working conditions in factories around the world, and a representative of Hanesbrands sits on the FLA governing board. Participating companies in the FLA are required to fulfill 10 comprehensive obligations to protect workers’
rights, including conducting internal monitoring of facilities, submitting to independent monitoring audits and verification, and managing and reporting information on their compliance efforts. The FLA conducts unannounced independent external
monitoring audits of a sample of a participating company’s plants and suppliers and publishes the results of those audits for the public to review. In November 2010, As You Sow, a San Francisco-based shareholder advocacy organization, issued a
report on apparel supply chain compliance programs and rated Hanesbrands’ program with the third-highest grade of companies studied.

We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas footprint, and we have implemented a comprehensive corporate energy policy to minimize energy consumption, reduce operating costs, and continually reduce
emissions to the environment. We manage this commitment by reducing our energy consumption as much as possible, exploring better supply chain management to reduce our use of energy-intensive transportation, adopting cleaner technologies where
possible and actively tracking our energy metrics. Currently, more than 30% of our total worldwide energy use comes from renewable sources. We have reduced our CO2emissions per unit manufactured by more than 16% since 2007. We have also worked closely with Energy Star, a program of
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that helps save money and protect the environment through energy efficient products and practices. Hanesbrands earned the U.S. EPA Energy Star partner of the year award in 2010 and 2011 for energy efficiency
progress. In Newsweek magazine’s latest annual list of the 500 greenest companies in America, Hanesbrands ranks No. 150.

We also incorporate Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (“LEED”) practices into many remodeling and new construction projects for our facilities around the world, including sales
offices, retail stores, headquarters buildings, distribution centers and manufacturing facilities. We have earned the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED sustainability certification for six of our facilities with two further certifications
pending. In total, we have 20 percent of our worldwide square footage that is either LEED certified or in the process of achieving certification. Our more than 1 million-square-foot fabric production plant in Nanjing, China, is one of the few
manufacturing facilities with certification in that country, and our 1.3 million-square-foot distribution center in Perris, California, is one of the largest LEED-certified distribution centers in the world. Sustainable features of the
LEED-certified facilities include reduction of energy usage through extensive use of natural skylighting, motion-detection lighting, advanced climate control technology, reduction of water usage through low-water bathroom fixtures and low-water
landscaping, innovative site grading techniques and use of locally produced concrete.

Our corporate philanthropic efforts are
focused on meeting the “fundamental needs” of the communities in which we live and work. In 2011, we were again the largest corporate giver to our local United Way in Forsyth County, N.C., with our corporate and employee gifts totaling
more than $2 million. In Central America and the Caribbean Basin, we have instituted the unique Green For Good program (Viviendo Verde), in which we use the proceeds from recycling waste materials in our manufacturing operations for community
improvement projects, such as school and health-clinic renovations, that also are supported through extensive employee volunteerism. We are preparing the rollout of this program in Asia. For more detail on the full range of our CSR efforts,
including our commitment to and work in our communities, go towww.hanesbrandsCSR.com.







Environmental Matters

Governmental Regulation

We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations that could affect our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety
Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various environmental laws and regulations. While we have had a product safety program in place
for many years focused heavily on children’s products, we have reinforced our product safety team and technological capabilities to ensure that we fully comply with the new Consumer Products Safety Improvement Act. Our international businesses
are subject to similar laws and regulations in the countries in which they operate. Our operations also are subject to various international trade agreements and regulations. See “— Trade Regulation.” While we believe that we are in
compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental regulations, current governmental regulations may change or become more stringent or unforeseen events may occur, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
position or results of operations.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 53,300 employees, approximately 7,900 of whom were located in the United States. Of the employees located in the United States, approximately 2,200 were
full or part-time employees in our stores within our direct to consumer channel. As of December 31, 2011, in the United States, approximately 30 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Some of our international employees
were also covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relationships with our employees are good.

