Item 1.Business

Company Overview

Hanesbrands Inc., a Maryland corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Hanesbrands,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company”), is a socially responsible manufacturer and marketer of leading everyday basic apparel under some of the world’s strongest apparel brands. Our innerwear and activewear apparel brands includeHanes,Champion,Bali,Playtex,Maidenform,JMS/Just My Size,L’eggs,Flexees,barely there,Wonderbra,Gear for SportsandLilyette. In addition, our international brands includeDIM, Nur Die/Nur Der,Zorba,Rinbros, Shock Absorber, Sol y Oro,Track N Field,AbanderadoandZorba.

We sell bras, panties, shapewear, hosiery, men’s underwear, children’s underwear, socks, T-shirts and other activewear in the United States, Canada, Mexico and other leading markets in the Americas, Asia, Australia and Europe. In the United States, we sell more units of intimate apparel, male underwear and children’s underwear than any other company. Unlike most apparel companies, Hanesbrands primarily operates its own manufacturing facilities. More than 85 percent of the apparel units that we sell worldwide and in the United States are manufactured in our own plants or those of dedicated contractors.

We have a long history of innovation, product excellence and brand recognition. In fact, more than 80 percent of U.S. households have our products in them. We revolutionized Tagless T-shirts and underwear, we invented the sports bra, we were the first to advertise a bra on national television (Playtex), and we are now using our Innovate-to-Elevate strategy to integrate our brand superiority, industry-leading innovation and low-cost global supply chain to provide higher valued products while lowering production costs. Our Tagless apparel platform, ComfortFlex Fit bra platform, ComfortBlend fabric platform and temperature-control X-Temp fabric platform incorporate big-idea innovation to span brands, product categories, business segments, retailer and distribution channels and geographies.

Founded in 1901, we were organized as a Maryland corporation in 2005 and spun off from Sara Lee Corporation in 2006, at which time we became an independent, publicly-traded corporation. Since then, we have used strategic acquisitions to expand our brand portfolio. In November 2010, we expanded our activewear portfolio through the acquisition of GearCo, Inc., known asGear for Sports, a leading seller of licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels. In October 2013, we acquired Maidenform Brands Inc., a global intimate apparel company, including the brandsMaidenform,FlexeesandLilyette. Most recently, in August 2014, we acquired another portfolio of strong brands includingDIM,Nur Die/Nur Der,Lovable,Shock AbsorberandAbanderadothrough the acquisition of DBA Lux Holding S.A. (“DBA”), a leading marketer of intimate apparel, hosiery and underwear in Europe. We believe these acquisitions will create growth and cost savings opportunities and increased scale to serve retailers.

We take great pride in our strong reputation for ethical business practices and the success of our Hanes for Good corporate responsibility program for community and environmental improvement. Hanesbrands was a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star Sustained Excellence Award winner for 2012-2014 and Partner of the Year winner in 2010 and 2011. We have significant goals for reducing our energy use, carbon emissions and water use and publicly report our progress. We are also a recognized leader for our community-building, philanthropy and workplace practices. More information about our Hanes for Good corporate responsibility initiatives may be found atwww.HanesForGood.com.

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. All references to “2014”, “2013” and “2012” relate to the 53 week fiscal year ended onJanuary 3, 2015, and the 52 week fiscal years ended onDecember 28, 2013andDecember 29, 2012, respectively. A significant subsidiary of ours, DBA, had a December 27, 2014 fiscal year end. The difference in reporting one week of financial information for DBA did not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Our Brands

Our portfolio of leading brands is designed to address the needs and wants of various consumer segments across a broad range of basic apparel products. Our brands hold either the number one or number two U.S. market position by units sold in most product categories in which we compete. Each of our brands has a unique consumer positioning that distinguishes it from its competitors and guides its advertising and product development. We discuss some of our most important brands in more detail below.

Hanesis the largest and most widely recognized brand in our portfolio.Hanesis the number one brand of total apparel in the U.S. and is found in eight out of 10 U.S. households. TheHanesbrand covers all of our product categories, including men’s, women’s and children’s underwear, bras, socks, T-shirts, fleece, shapewear and sheer hosiery.Hanesstands for outstanding comfort, style and value.









Championis our second-largest brand. For over 90 years,Championhas been outfitting athletes in authentic, high-quality athletic apparel, including high-performance sports bras, team uniforms and gym essentials like classic T-shirts, mesh shorts and fleece hoodies. An industry leader in quality, design and performance innovation,Championprovides athletes with mobility, durability and up-to-date styles - in and out of the gym, on and off the field.Championhas also collaborated on premium apparel items through an exclusive collection with Todd Snyder, a limited edition men’s apparel line for Urban Outfitters and custom specialty items for Supreme. In addition, we distribute a full line of men’s, women’s and children’sC9 by Championproducts exclusively through Target stores.

Our brand portfolio also includes a number of iconic intimate apparel brands:Balioffers a range of bras, panties and shapewear sold in the department store channel and is the number one bra brand in department stores.Playtexis America’s number one plus-size bra brand.Playtexoffers superior fit and support for women of all sizes and is sold everywhere from mass merchandise retailers to department stores.DIMis a flagship European brand and a market leader in men’s underwear, hosiery and intimate apparel in France.Maidenformhas been trusted for modern, sensual style in bras, panties and shapewear since 1922.

In addition, we offer a variety of products under the following well-known brands:JMS/Just My Size, L’eggs,Nur Die/Nur Der,Flexees, barely there,Wonderbra,Gear for SportsandLilyette.

These brands serve to round out our product offerings, allowing us to give consumers a variety of options to meet their diverse needs.

Our Segments

Our operations are managed and reported in four operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Activewear, Direct to Consumer and International. These segments are organized principally by product category, geographic location or distribution channel. Each segment has its own management that is responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses, but the segments share a common supply chain and media and marketing platforms.

The following table summarizes our operating segments by product category:

SegmentPrimary ProductsPrimary BrandsInnerwearIntimate apparel, such as bras, panties, hosiery and shapewearHanes,Bali,Playtex,Maidenform,JMS/Just My Size,L’eggs,Flexees,barely there,Wonderbra,Lilyette,Donna Karan,*DKNY*Men’s underwear and children’s underwearHanes,Champion,Polo Ralph Lauren*SocksHanes,ChampionActivewearT-shirts, fleece, sport shirts, performance T-shirts and shorts, sports bras and thermalsChampion,Hanes,JMS/Just My Size,Hanes Beefy-T,Gear for Sports,DuofoldDirect to ConsumerActivewear, men’s underwear, children’s underwear, intimate apparel, socks and hosieryHanes,Bali,Champion,Playtex,barely there,JMS/Just My Size,L’eggs,Maidenform,Flexees,LilyetteInternationalActivewear, men’s underwear, children’s underwear, intimate apparel, socks and hosieryHanes,Champion,DIM, Nur Die/Nur Der, Lovable, Wonderbra,Playtex,Maidenform,Zorba,Kendall,* Rinbros,Shock Absorber,Sol y Oro,Abanderado, Flexees,Lilyette,Polo Ralph Lauren,* Track N Field,Ritmo,Maidenform,Donna Karan,* DKNY*



*Brand used under a license agreement.

Financial information regarding Hanesbrands’ segments is included in Note 21, “Business Segment Information,” to our financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Innerwear

The Innerwear segment focuses on core apparel products, such as intimate apparel, men’s underwear, children’s underwear and socks, marketed under well-known brands that are trusted by consumers. We are the intimate apparel category leader in the United States with ourHanes,Bali,Playtex,Maidenform,JMS/Just My Size,L’eggs,Flexees,barely there,WonderbraandLilyette, Donna Karan and DKNYbrands, and we are also the leading manufacturer and marketer of men’s









underwear and children’s underwear in the United States under theHanes,Championand Polo Ralph Lauren brands and women’s sheer hosiery under theL’eggs,Hanes,JMS/Just My Size, Donna Karan and DKNY brands. During2014, net sales from our Innerwear segment were $2.7 billion, representing approximately 51% of total net sales.

Activewear

We are a leader in the activewear market through ourChampion,Hanes,JMS/Just My SizeandDuofoldbrands, where we sell products such as T-shirts and fleece to both retailers and wholesalers. In addition to activewear for men and women,Championprovides uniforms for athletic programs and includes an apparel program,C9 by Champion, at Target stores. We also license ourChampionname for footwear and sports accessories. In our branded printwear category, we supply our T-shirts, sport shirts and fleece products, including brands such asHanes,ChampionandHanes Beefy-T, to customers, primarily wholesalers, who then resell to screen printers and embellishers. We also sell licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels under ourGear for Sportsbrand. We also offer a range of quality, comfortable clothing for men, women and children marketed under theHanesandJMS/Just My Sizebrands. TheJMS/Just My Sizebrand offers casual apparel designed exclusively to meet the needs of plus-size women. During2014, net sales from our Activewear segment were $1.4 billion, representing approximately 26% of total net sales.

Direct to Consumer

Our Direct to Consumer operations include our domestic Company-operated outlet stores, catalogs and website operations that sell our branded products directly to consumers in the United States. As ofJanuary 3, 2015, we had 250 outlet stores in the United States and operated websites under theHanes, One Hanes Place, JMS/Just My Size, ChampionandMaidenformnames. During2014, net sales from our Direct to Consumer segment were $409 million, representing approximately 8% of total net sales.

International

Our International segment includes products that span across the Innerwear and Activewear reportable segments and are primarily marketed under theHanes,Champion,DIM, Nur Die/Nur Der,Wonderbra,Playtex,Maidenform,Zorba, Kendall,Rinbros,Shock Absorber, Sol y Oro,Abanderado,Flexees,Lilyette,Polo Ralph Lauren,Track N Field,Ritmo,Maidenform, Donna Karan and DKNY brands. Our Innerwear brands are market leaders across Western and Central Europe. In the intimate apparel category, we hold the number one market share in France and Spain and the number two market share in in Italy. We are also the category leader in men’s underwear in France and Spain, and in hosiery in France and Germany. During 2014, net sales from our International segment were $798 million, representing approximately 15% of total net sales and included sales in Europe, Asia, Latin America, Canada, Australia, the Middle East, Africa and the Caribbean. Our largest international markets are Europe, Canada, Japan, Mexico, Brazil and Australia.

Customers and Distribution Channels

In2014, approximately 85% of our net sales were to customers in the United States and approximately 15% were to customers outside the United States. Domestically, almost 87% of our net sales were wholesale sales to retailers, 9% were direct to consumers and 4% were wholesale sales to wholesalers and third party embellishers. We have well-established relationships with some of the largest apparel retailers in the world. Our largest customers are Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), Target Corporation (“Target”) and Kohl’s Corporation (“Kohl’s”), accounting for24%,17%and5%, respectively, of our total net sales in 2014. As is common in the basic apparel industry, we generally do not have purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products. However, all of our key customer relationships have been in place for 10 years or more. Wal-Mart and Target are our only customers with sales that exceed 10% of any individual segment’s sales. In our Innerwear segment, Wal-Mart accounted for 36% of net sales and Target accounted for 16% of net sales during2014. In our Activewear segment, Target accounted for 29% of net sales and Wal-Mart accounted for 19% of net sales.

Sales to the mass merchant channel in the United States accounted for approximately 48% of our net sales in 2014. We sell all of our product categories in this channel primarily under ourHanes,Champion,Playtex, MaidenformandJMS/Just My Sizebrands. Mass merchants feature high-volume, low-cost sales of basic apparel items along with a diverse variety of consumer goods products, such as grocery and drug products and other hard lines, and are characterized by large retailers, such as Wal-Mart. Our largest mass merchant customer is Wal-Mart, which accounted for approximately24%of our total net sales in2014.

Sales to the national chains and department stores channel in the United States accounted for approximately 15% of our net sales in2014. National chains target a higher-income consumer than mass merchants, focus more of their sales on apparel items rather than other consumer goods such as grocery and drug products and are characterized by large retailers such as Kohl’s, JC Penney Company, Inc. and Sears Holdings Corporation. We sell all of our product categories in this channel. Traditional department stores target higher-income consumers and carry more high-end, fashion conscious products than









national chains or mass merchants and tend to operate in higher-income areas and commercial centers. Traditional department stores are characterized by large retailers such as Macy’s, Inc. and Belk, Inc. We sell products in our intimate apparel, underwear, socks, hosiery and activewear categories through department stores.

Sales in our Direct to Consumer segment accounted for approximately 8% of our net sales in2014. We sell our branded products directly to consumers through our 250 outlet stores, as well as our websites operating under theHanes,One Hanes Place,JMS/Just My Size, ChampionandMaidenformnames. Our outlet stores are value-based, offering the consumer a savings of 25% to 40% off suggested retail prices, and sell first-quality, excess, post-season, obsolete and slightly imperfect products. Our websites, supported by emails and catalogs, address the growing e-commerce channel that characterizes today’s 24/7 retail environment.Our websites recorded 37 million user sessions in 2014, with 5.2 million consumers receiving our emails and 3.1 million consumers receiving our catalogs in the mail.

Sales in our International segment represented approximately 15% of our net sales in2014, and included sales in Europe, Asia, Latin America, Canada, Australia, the Middle East, Africa and the Caribbean. Our largest international markets are Europe, Canada, Japan, Mexico, Brazil and Australia. We also have offices in each of these markets, as well as China, the Philippines, Thailand, Ireland, Argentina and Central America. Internationally, the majority of our net sales were wholesale sales to retailers. For more information about our sales on a geographic basis, see Note 22, “Geographic Area Information,” to our financial statements.

Sales in other channels in the United States represented approximately 14% of our net sales in2014. We sell T-shirts, golf and sport shirts and fleece sweatshirts to wholesalers and third party embellishers primarily under ourHanes,ChampionandHanes Beefy-Tbrands. We also sell a significant range of our underwear, activewear and socks products under theChampionbrand to wholesale clubs, such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, and sporting goods stores, such as The Sports Authority, Inc. We sell primarily legwear and underwear products under theHanesandL’eggsbrands to food, drug and variety stores. We also sell licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores.We sell products that span across our Innerwear and Activewear segments to the U.S. military for sale to servicemen and servicewomen and through discount retailers, such as the Dollar General Corporation and Family Dollar Stores, Inc.

Manufacturing, Sourcing and Distribution

During2014, approximately 65% of our cost of sales were from finished goods manufactured through a combination of facilities we own and operate and facilities owned and operated by third party contractors who perform some of the steps in the manufacturing process for us, such as cutting and/or sewing. We sourced the remainder of our finished goods from third party manufacturers who supply us with finished products based on our designs. In making decisions about the location of manufacturing operations and third party sources of supply, we consider a number of factors, including labor, local operating costs, quality, regional infrastructure, applicable quotas and duties and freight costs. We believe that our balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Hanesbrands

The manufacturing process for the finished goods that we manufacture begins with raw materials we obtain from suppliers. The principal raw materials in our product categories are cotton and synthetics. Cotton and synthetic materials are typically spun into yarn, which is then knitted into cotton, synthetic and blended fabrics. We source all of our yarn requirements from large-scale suppliers. To a lesser extent, we purchase fabric from several domestic and international suppliers in conjunction with scheduled production. In addition to cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles, we use thread, narrow elastic and trim for product identification, buttons, zippers, snaps and lace. These fabrics are cut and sewn into finished products, either by us or by third party contractors. We currently operate 46 manufacturing facilities. Most of our cutting and sewing operations are strategically located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. Alternate sources of these materials and services are readily available.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Third Parties

In addition to our manufacturing capabilities, we also source finished goods we design from third-party manufacturers, also referred to as “turnkey products.” Many of these turnkey products are sourced from international suppliers by our strategic sourcing hubs in Asia.

All contracted and sourced manufacturing must meet our high quality standards. Further, all contractors and third-party manufacturers must be preaudited and adhere to our strict supplier and business practices guidelines. These requirements provide strict standards that, among other things, cover hours of work, age of workers, health and safety conditions and conformity with local laws and Hanesbrands’ standards. Each new supplier must be inspected and agree to comprehensive









compliance terms prior to performance of any production on our behalf. We audit compliance with these standards and maintain strict compliance performance records. In addition to our audit procedures, many of our suppliers are certified by the Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production, or “WRAP,” program. WRAP uses third-party, independent audit firms and requires factory-by-factory certification. We are also a fully accredited participating company in the Fair Labor Association.

Distribution

As ofJanuary 3, 2015, we distributed our products from 39 distribution centers. These facilities include 14 facilities located in the United States and 25 facilities located outside the United States in regions where we manufacture our products. We internally manage and operate 24 of these facilities, and we use third party logistics providers who operate the other 15 facilities on our behalf. International distribution operations use a combination of third party logistics providers, as well as owned and operated distribution operations, to distribute goods to our various international markets.

Inventory

Seasonality and Other Factors

Our operating results are subject to some variability due to seasonality and other factors. For instance, we generally have higher sales during the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons and during periods of cooler weather, which benefits certain product categories such as fleece. Our diverse range of product offerings, however, provides some mitigation to the impact of seasonal changes in demand for certain items. Sales levels in any period are also impacted by customers’ decisions to increase or decrease their inventory levels in response to anticipated consumer demand. Our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us. Media, advertising and promotion expenses (“MAP”) may vary from period to period during a fiscal year depending on the timing of our advertising campaigns for retail selling seasons and product introductions.

Product Innovation and Marketing

A significant component of our margin-enhancing Innovate-to-Elevate strategy is our strong product research and development and innovation capabilities. From 2012 to 2014, we spent over $162 million on design, research and product development, including the development of new and improved products.

We use a disciplined, consumer-driven approach to direct our product innovation and marketing efforts. We seek to identify relevant consumer insights and long-term megatrends that will impact our product categories over the next five to 10 years. We focus our innovation efforts on big-idea platforms that span brands, product categories, business segments, distribution channels and geographies. In addition, we concentrate on margin accretive product innovations where we can leverage our supply chain in order to drive further economies of scale. Examples of our product innovation platforms include:

•Tagless: Over a decade ago, we launchedHanesTagless Tees that deliver superior softness without the itch and irritation of a tag. In 2012, our consumer-driven innovation process led us to expand this platform to the male underwear bottom category where research indicated that itchy tags were the number two consumer complaint. The Tagless platform also taps into the power of our supply chain, generating significant cost savings and allowing us to expand gross margins.

•ComfortBlend: ComfortBlend, our fabric innovation that combines cotton and synthetic yarns for products that are softer, shrink less and dry faster, is an outgrowth of the performance fabric megatrend. In developing ComfortBlend, we worked through each step of the big idea process, testing the concept, the product and the advertising. We









introducedHanesmen’s ComfortBlend underwear in 2012 with exceptional results and have now expanded this platform to socks, children’s underwear and panties.

•ComfortFlex Fit: Our ComfortFlex Fit platform is another example of our consumer-driven innovation process, where research indicated the two most significant consumer complaints in the bra category were that the consumer could not find the right size and that the consumer could not find a comfortable bra. ComfortFlex Fit effectively addresses both concerns by combining a simplified shopping system that eliminates the complicated cup-and-band combinations of traditional bra sizing systems with a more comfortable, flexible fit. We have successfully leveraged the ComfortFlex Fit platform across ourHanes,Champion, Playtex,Bali,JMS/Just My Sizeandbarely therebrands where it is driving incremental purchases in a category where consumers typically buy only a little over three bras per year.

•X-Temp: X-Temp is our newest platform and brings a new level of technology and comfort to basic apparel.HanesandChampionX-Temp garments are designed to keep consumers cooler and drier by increasing the rate of evaporation when body temperature rises and reducing the rate of evaporation as body temperature cools. The X-Temp platform was successfully introduced inHanesmen’s underwear and men’s socks in 2013 and expanded to women’s socks, panties, bras, legwear, base layer and children’s underwear and socks in 2014.ChampionVapor with X-temp technology was introduced in men’s and women’s activewear in 2013 and expanded to team practicewear and branded printwear in 2014.

In addition, our international product platform innovations include:DIMandLovableFirming Action bras that incorporate "textil active" technology to promote skin firmness and micro-circulation through natural micro-massages;DIMandNur DieBeauty Resist hoisery that utilizes a reinforced knitting process to provide the best balance of durability and sheerness; and theDIMUltimate men’s boxer that utilizes a patented screen-printed silicon structure (currently used on bra cups) to provide ultimate support and total freedom of movement.

Driving innovation platforms across categories is a major element of our Innovate-to-Elevate strategy as it enables us to meet key consumer needs and leverage advertising dollars. We believe that the strength of our consumer insights, our distinctive brand propositions and our focus on integrated marketing give us a competitive advantage in the fragmented apparel marketplace. Effectively marketing these innovations also accrues benefits back to our supply chain. Driving higher volume helps us to leverage scale and drive costs down even further, increasing margins while funding additional marketing support for our brands and products so we can continue to reinvest in product innovation.

In 2014, we increased our media spending by approximately $15 million over prior year, of which almost half related to the acquisition of DBA. The remaining increase was due to our continued national advertising starring Michael Jordan forHanesTagless and ComfortBlend innovations as well as TV and print advertising forHaneswomen’s panties andPlaytexbras. We also launched a new print campaign forBalibras and a TV campaign to introduce our newestHanescomfort innovation, X-Temp, which brings revolutionary cooling technology to basic apparel. We also continued our advertising support ofChampion, highlighting theChampionMarathon sports bra,ChampionVapor fast-drying performance apparel, andChampionwith Duofold Warm.

Competition

The basic apparel market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Competition generally is based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. Our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., competes with us across most of our segments through its own offerings and those of its Russell Corporation and Vanity Fair Intimates offerings. Other competitors in our Innerwear segment include Limited Brands, Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret brand and Jockey International, Inc. Other competitors in our Activewear segment include various private label and controlled brands sold by many of our customers, as well as Gildan Activewear, Inc. and Gap Inc. Large European intimate apparel distributors such as Triumph International and Calzedonia S.p.A Group compete with us in our International segment. We also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including our International segment. Additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. Our competitive strengths include our strong brands with leading market positions, our high-volume, core products focus, our significant scale of operations, our global supply chain and our strong customer relationships. We continually strive to improve in each of these areas.

Intellectual Property

We market our products under hundreds of trademarks and service marks in the United States and other countries around the world, the most widely recognized of which areHanes,Champion,C9 by Champion,Bali,Playtex,Maidenform,DIM,JMS/Just My Size,L’eggs,Duofold,Nur Die/Nur Der,Flexees,barely there,Wonderbra,Gear for Sports,Lilyette,Lovable,









Rinbros, Shock Absorber, AbanderadoandZorba.Some of our products are sold under trademarks that have been licensed from third parties, such as Polo Ralph Lauren men’s underwear and Donna Karan and DKNY intimate apparel.

Some of our own trademarks are licensed to third parties, such asChampionfor athletic-oriented accessories. In the United States and Canada, thePlaytextrademark is owned by Playtex Marketing Corporation, of which we own a 50% interest and which grants to us a perpetual royalty-free license to thePlaytextrademark on and in connection with the sale of apparel in the United States and Canada. The other 50% interest in Playtex Marketing Corporation is owned by Playtex Products, LLC, an unrelated third party, who has a perpetual royalty-free license to thePlaytextrademark on and in connection with the sale of non-apparel products in the United States and Canada. Outside the United States and Canada, we own thePlaytextrademark and perpetually license such trademark to Playtex Products, LLC for non-apparel products. Our trademarks are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. We aggressively protect these trademarks from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings.

Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally remain valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Most of the trademarks in our portfolio, including our core brands, are covered by trademark registrations in the countries of the world in which we do business, in addition to many other jurisdictions around the world, with a registration period of 10 years in most countries. Generally, trademark registrations can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. We have an active program designed to ensure that our trademarks are registered, renewed, protected and maintained. We plan to continue to use all of our core trademarks and plan to renew the registrations for such trademarks as needed. We also own a number of copyrights.

Most of our copyrights are unregistered, although we have a sizable portfolio of copyrighted lace designs that are the subject of a number of registrations at the U.S. Copyright Office.

We place high importance on product innovation and design, and a number of these innovations and designs are the subject of patents. However, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how that we have not patented.

Geographic Financial Summary

For a summary of our operations by geographic area for each of the three most recent fiscal years, including revenues from external customers and long-lived assets, see Note 22, “Geographic Area Information,” to our financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters

We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations that could affect our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various environmental laws and regulations. Some of our international businesses are subject to similar laws and regulations in the countries in which they operate. Our operations also are subject to various international trade agreements and regulations. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental regulations, current governmental regulations may change or become more stringent or unforeseen events may occur, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. We are aware of hazardous substances or petroleum releases at certain of our facilities and are working with the relevant environmental authorities to investigate and address such releases. We also have been identified as a “potentially responsible party” at certain waste disposal sites undergoing investigation and cleanup under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as Superfund) or state Superfund equivalent programs. Where we have determined that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can reasonably be estimated, we have accrued amounts in our balance sheet for losses related to these sites. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and our remedial environmental obligations historically have not had a material impact on our operations, and we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in connection with such compliance.









Corporate Social Responsibility

Hanesbrands conducts business around the world in a highly ethical manner. We are protective of our strong reputation for corporate citizenship and social responsibility and proud of our significant achievements in the areas of environmental stewardship, workplace quality and community building.

We call our corporate social responsibility program “Hanes for Good” because adhering to responsible and sustainable business practices is good for our company, good for our employees, good for our communities and good for our investors. We own the majority of our supply chain and have more direct control over how we do business than many of our competitors. In fact, approximately 85% of our total unit volume sold is produced in facilities that we operate or control. We also have an industry-leading compliance program that helps to ensure our business partners live up to the high standards that we set for ourselves.

We have been recognized for our socially responsible business practices by such organizations as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star program, corporate responsibility advocate As You Sow, social compliance rating group Free2Work, the United Way and others. We are members of the Fair Labor Association, Sustainable Apparel Coalition, The Sustainability Consortium and Corporate Eco Forum.

We have made significant progress across a range of corporate social responsibility issues, but we recognize that there is always room for improvement. We pride ourselves on listening to others outside our company and reacting quickly and responsibly if issues emerge. We hope to continue making a positive and lasting contribution to our world in the years to come. More information about our Hanes for Good corporate responsibility initiatives may be found atwww.HanesForGood.com.

Employees

As of January 3, 2015, we had approximately 59,500 employees, approximately 7,700 of whom were located in the United States. As of January 3, 2015, approximately 40 employees in the United States were covered by collective bargaining agreements in the United States. A significant portion of our employees based in foreign countries are represented by works councils or unions or subject to trade-sponsored or governmental agreements. We believe our relationships with our employees are good.





