Item 1.Business

Company Overview

Hanesbrands Inc., a Maryland corporation (collectively
with its subsidiaries, “Hanesbrands,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company”), is a consumer goods company with a portfolio of leading apparel brands, includingHanes, Champion, C9 by Champion, Bali,
Playtex, Just My Size,L’eggs, barely there, Wonderbra, Gear for Sports, Zorba, Sol y OroandRinbros.We design, manufacture, source and sell a broad range of basic apparel such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s
underwear, kids’ underwear, casualwear, activewear, socks and hosiery.

Our operations are managed and reported in four
operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Outerwear, Direct to Consumer and International. These segments are organized principally by product category, geographic location or distribution
channel. Each segment has its own management that is responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses, but the segments share a common supply chain and media and marketing platforms.

Our products are sold through multiple distribution channels. During 2012, approximately 46% of our net sales were to mass merchants in
the United States, 13% were to national chains and department stores in the United States, 11% were in our International segment, 8% were in our Direct to Consumer segment in the United States and 22% were to other retail channels in the United
States such as embellishers, specialty retailers, wholesale clubs, drug stores, collegiate bookstores, discount retailers and sporting goods stores. In addition to designing and marketing basic apparel, we have a long history of operating a global
supply chain that incorporates a mix of self-manufacturing, third party contractors and third party sourcing.

The basic
apparel sector of the apparel industry is characterized by frequently replenished items, such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, socks and hosiery. Growth and sales in the basic apparel sector are not primarily
driven by fashion, in contrast to other areas of the broader apparel industry. We focus on the core attributes of comfort, fit and value, while remaining current with regard to consumer trends. The majority of our core styles continue from year to
year, with variations only in color, fabric or design details. Some products, however, such as intimate apparel, activewear and sheer hosiery, do have more of an emphasis on style and innovation. We continue to invest in our largest and strongest
brands to achieve our long-term growth goals.

Hanesbrands was organized in 2005 and spun off from Sara Lee Corporation (now
known as The Hillshire Brands Company) in September 2006. In November 2010, we completed our acquisition of GearCo, Inc., known as Gear for Sports, a leading seller of licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels. This
acquisition significantly strengthened our strategy of creating stronger branded and defensible businesses in our Outerwear segment. In the second quarter of 2012, we narrowed the focus of our worldwide imagewear business, which led us to sell our
European imagewear business and discontinue our private-label and Outer Banks domestic imagewear operations serving wholesalers that sell to the screen-print industry. The execution of our new worldwide imagewear strategy allows us to focus our
imagewear business (now known as branded printwear) onHanesandChampionbranded products in the United States with improved operating margins. As a result of these actions, the current year and prior-year disclosures reflect these
operations as discontinued operations.

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. All references to
“2012,” “2011” and “2010” relate to our fiscal years ended on December 29, 2012, December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, respectively.

Our Brands

Our portfolio of leading brands is designed to address the
needs and wants of various consumer segments across a broad range of basic apparel products. According to The NPD Group/Consumer Tracking Service, or “NPD,” our brands held either the number one or number two U.S. market position by units
sold in most product







categories in which we compete, for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2012. Each of our brands has a particular consumer positioning that distinguishes it from its competitors and
guides its advertising and product development. We discuss some of our most important brands in more detail below.

Hanesis the largest and most widely recognized brand in our portfolio. TheHanesbrand covers all of our product
categories, including men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, bras, panties, socks, T-shirts, fleece and sheer hosiery.Hanesstands for outstanding comfort, style and value. According to NPD,Hanesis the number one brand of total
apparel in the U.S. as well as the leading brand of men’s and boys’ underwear, women’s and girls’ panties, and socks for the family by units sold for the 12-month period ended November 30, 2012.

Championis our second-largest brand. For over 90 years,Championhas been outfitting athletes in authentic, high-quality
athletic apparel. From high-performance sports bras and classic T-shirts to gym essentials like mesh shorts and fleece hoodies, our signatureDouble Dryfabric keeps athletes cool and dry, enhancing the workout experience. We believe thatChampion’s combination of comfort, fit and design provides athletes with mobility, durability and up-to-date styles, all product qualities that are important in the sale of athletic products. We also distributeC9 by Championproducts exclusively through Target stores.

Baliis the third-largest brand within our portfolio, offering a range of
bras, panties and shapewear sold in the department store channel.Playtex, the fourth-largest brand within our portfolio, offers a line of bras, panties and shapewear, including products that offer solutions for hard to fit figures. Our brand
portfolio also includes the following well-known brands:Just My Size, L’eggs,barely there,WonderbraandGear for Sports.These brands serve to round out our product offerings, allowing us to give consumers a
variety of options to meet their diverse needs.

Our Segments

The following table summarizes our operating segments by product category:



SegmentPrimary ProductsPrimary BrandsInnerwearIntimate apparel, such as bras, panties, hosiery and shapewearHanes, Bali, Playtex, L’eggs, barely there, Just My Size, Wonderbra, Donna Karan,* DKNY*Men’s underwear and kids’ underwearHanes, Champion, Polo Ralph Lauren*SocksHanes, ChampionOuterwearActivewear, such as performanceT-shirts and shorts, fleece, sports bras and thermalsChampion, Gear for Sports, DuofoldCasualwear, such as T-shirts, fleece and sport shirtsHanes, Just My Size, Champion, Hanes Beefy-TDirect to ConsumerActivewear, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, intimate apparel, socks, hosiery and casualwearHanes, Bali, Champion, Playtex, barely there, Just My Size, L’eggsInternationalActivewear, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, intimate apparel, socks, hosiery and casualwearHanes, Champion, Wonderbra,** Playtex,** Zorba, Kendall,* Sol y Oro, Rinbros, Polo Ralph Lauren,* Track N Field, Ritmo



*Brand used under a license agreement.

**As a result of the February 2006 sale of the European branded apparel business of Sara Lee Corporation, we are not permitted to sell this brand in the member states of
the European Union, several other European countries and South Africa.







As a result of the reduced size of our sheer hosiery business and changing trends, we
decided in the first quarter of 2012 to change our external segment reporting to include hosiery operations within the Innerwear segment. Hosiery had previously been reported as a separate segment. Prior-year segment sales and operating profit
results, including other minor allocation changes, have been revised to conform to the current-year presentation. Financial information regarding Hanesbrands’ segments is included in Note 18, “Business Segment Information,” to our
financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Innerwear

The Innerwear segment focuses on core apparel products, such as intimate apparel, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear and socks,
marketed under well-known brands that are trusted by consumers. According to NPD, we are the intimate apparel category leader in the United States with ourHanes,Bali,Playtex,L’eggs,barely there,Just
My SizeandWonderbrabrands, and we are also the leading manufacturer and marketer of men’s underwear and kids’ underwear under theHanes, ChampionandPolo Ralph Laurenbrand names and women’s sheer hosiery
under theL’eggs,Hanes,Just My Size, Donna KaranandDKNYbrands (based on NPD unit share for the 12 months ending November 30, 2012). During 2012, net sales from our Innerwear segment were $2.3
billion, representing approximately 52% of total net sales.

Outerwear

We are a leader in the activewear and casualwear markets through ourHanes,Champion,Just My SizeandDuofoldbrands, where we sell products such as T-shirts and fleece to both retailers and wholesalers. In addition to activewear for men and women,Championprovides uniforms for athletic programs and includes an apparel program,C9 by
Champion, at Target stores. We also license ourChampionname for footwear and sports accessories. In our branded printwear category, we supply our T-shirts, sport shirts and fleece products, including brands such asHanes,ChampionandHanes Beefy-T, to customers, primarily wholesalers, who then resell to screen printers and embellishers. We also sell licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores and other channels under our Gear for Sports business.
Our casualwear lines offer a range of quality, comfortable clothing for men, women and children marketed under theHanesandJust My Sizebrands. TheJust My Sizebrand offers casual apparel designed exclusively to meet the
needs of plus-size women. During 2012, net sales from our Outerwear segment were $1.3 billion, representing approximately 29% of total net sales.

Direct to Consumer

Our Direct to Consumer operations include our
value-based (“outlet”) stores and Internet operations which sell products from our portfolio of leading brands. We sell our branded products directly to consumers through our outlet stores, as well as our websites operating under theHanes,One Hanes Place,Just My SizeandChampionnames. Our Internet operations are supported by our catalogs. As of December 29, 2012, we had 201 outlet stores. During 2012, net sales from our Direct to Consumer
segment were $372 million, representing approximately 8% of total net sales.

International

Our International segment includes products that span across the Innerwear and Outerwear reportable segments and are primarily marketed
under theHanes,Champion,Wonderbra,Playtex,Zorba,Kendall, Sol y Oro, Rinbros,Polo Ralph Lauren, Track N FieldandRitmobrands. During 2012, net sales from our International segment were
$501 million, representing approximately 11% of total net sales and included sales in Asia, Latin America, Canada and Australia. Our largest international markets are Japan, Canada, Mexico, Brazil and Australia.







Customers and Distribution Channels

In 2012, approximately 89% of our net sales were to customers in the United States and approximately 11% were to customers outside the
United States. Domestically, almost 86% of our net sales were wholesale sales to retailers, 9% were direct to consumers and 5% were wholesale sales to wholesalers and third party embellishers. We have well-established relationships with some of the
largest apparel retailers in the world. Our largest customers are Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), Target Corporation (“Target”) and Kohl’s Corporation (“Kohl’s”), accounting for 28%,18% and 6%,
respectively, of our total net sales in 2012. As is common in the basic apparel industry, we generally do not have purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products. However, all of our key customer relationships have been in
place for 10 years or more. Wal-Mart, Target and Kohl’s are our only customers with sales that exceed 10% of any individual segment’s sales. In our Innerwear segment, Wal-Mart accounted for 39% of net sales, Target accounted for 18% of net
sales and Kohl’s accounted for 11% of net sales during 2012. In our Outerwear segment, Target accounted for 30% of net sales and Wal-Mart accounted for 20% of net sales.

Sales to the mass merchant channel in the United States accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales in 2012. We sell all of our product categories in this channel primarily under ourHanes,Champion,Just My SizeandPlaytexbrands. Mass merchants feature high-volume, low-cost sales of basic apparel items along with a diverse variety of consumer goods products, such as grocery and drug products and other hard
lines, and are characterized by large retailers, such as Wal-Mart. Our largest mass merchant customer is Wal-Mart, which accounted for approximately 28% of our net sales in 2012.

Sales to the national chains and department stores channel in the United States accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in 2012.
National chains target a higher-income consumer than mass merchants, focus more of their sales on apparel items rather than other consumer goods such as grocery and drug products and are characterized by large retailers such as Kohl’s, JC
Penney Company, Inc. and Sears Holdings Corporation. We sell all of our product categories in this channel. Traditional department stores target higher-income consumers and carry more high-end, fashion conscious products than national chains or mass
merchants and tend to operate in higher-income areas and commercial centers. Traditional department stores are characterized by large retailers such as Macy’s, Inc. and Dillard’s, Inc. We sell products in our intimate apparel, underwear,
socks, hosiery and activewear categories through department stores.

Sales in our Direct to Consumer segment in the United
States accounted for approximately 8% of our net sales in 2012. We sell our branded products directly to consumers through our 201 outlet stores, as well as our websites operating under theHanes,One Hanes Place,Just My SizeandChampionnames. Our outlet stores are value-based, offering the consumer a savings of 25% to 40% off suggested retail prices, and sell first-quality, excess, post-season, obsolete and slightly imperfect products. Our websites, supported
by our catalogs, address the growing direct to consumer channel that operates in today’s 24/7 retail environment, and we have an active database of approximately 4.4 million consumers receiving our catalogs and emails.

Sales in our International segment represented approximately 11% of our net sales in 2012, and included sales in Asia, Latin America,
Canada and Australia. Our largest international markets are Japan, Canada, Mexico, Brazil and Australia. We also have offices in India and China and we operate in several locations in Latin America including Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and Central
America. From an export business perspective, we use distributors to service customers in the Middle East and Asia, and have a limited presence in Latin America. The brands that are the primary focus of the export business includeHanesandChampionsocks,Championactivewear,Hanesunderwear andBali,Playtex,Wonderbraandbarely thereintimate apparel. As discussed below under “Intellectual Property,” we are not permitted to
sellWonderbraandPlaytexbranded products in the member states of the EU, several other European countries and South Africa. For more information about our sales on a geographic basis, see Note 19. “Geographic Area
Information,” to our financial statements.

Sales in other channels in the United States represented approximately 22% of
our net sales in 2012. We sell T-shirts, golf and sport shirts and fleece sweatshirts to wholesalers and third party embellishers primarily under







ourHanes,ChampionandHanes Beefy-Tbrands. We also sell a significant range of our underwear, activewear and socks products under theChampionbrand to wholesale
clubs, such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, and sporting goods stores, such as The Sports Authority, Inc. We sell primarily legwear and underwear products under theHanesandL’eggsbrands to food, drug and variety stores. We
also sell licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores.We sell products that span across our Innerwear and Outerwear segments to the U.S. military for sale to servicemen and servicewomen and through discount retailers, such as the Dollar
General Corporation and Family Dollar Stores, Inc.

Manufacturing, Sourcing and Distribution

During 2012, approximately 75% of our cost of sales were from finished goods manufactured through a combination of facilities we own and
operate and facilities owned and operated by third party contractors who perform some of the steps in the manufacturing process for us, such as cutting and/or sewing. We sourced the remainder of our finished goods from third party manufacturers who
supply us with finished products based on our designs. In making decisions about the location of manufacturing operations and third party sources of supply, we consider a number of factors, including labor, local operating costs, quality, regional
infrastructure, applicable quotas and duties and freight costs. We believe that our balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions,
increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Hanesbrands

The manufacturing process for the finished goods that we manufacture begins with raw materials we obtain from suppliers. The principal raw
materials in our product categories are cotton and synthetics. Cotton and synthetic materials are typically spun into yarn, which is then knitted into cotton, synthetic and blended fabrics. We source all of our yarn requirements from large-scale
suppliers. To a lesser extent, we purchase fabric from several domestic and international suppliers in conjunction with scheduled production. In addition to cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles, we use thread, narrow elastic and trim for product
identification, buttons, zippers, snaps and lace. These fabrics are cut and sewn into finished products, either by us or by third party contractors. We currently operate 41 manufacturing facilities. Most of our cutting and sewing operations are
strategically located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. Alternate sources of these materials and services are readily available.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Third Parties

In addition
to our manufacturing capabilities, we also source finished goods we design from third party manufacturers, also referred to as “turnkey products.” Many of these turnkey products are sourced from international suppliers by our strategic
sourcing hubs in Asia.

All contracted and sourced manufacturing must meet our high quality standards. Further, all
contractors and third party manufacturers must be preaudited and adhere to our strict supplier and business practices guidelines. These requirements provide strict standards covering hours of work, age of workers, health and safety conditions and
conformity with local laws and Hanesbrands’ standards. Each new supplier must be inspected and agree to comprehensive compliance terms prior to performance of any production on our behalf. We audit compliance with these standards and maintain
strict compliance performance records. In addition to our audit procedures, we require certain of our suppliers to be Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production, or “WRAP,” certified. WRAP is a recognized apparel certification program
that independently monitors and certifies compliance with certain specified manufacturing standards that are intended to ensure that a given factory produces sewn goods under lawful, humane and ethical conditions. WRAP uses third party, independent
certification firms and requires factory-by-factory certification.







Distribution

As of December 29, 2012, we distributed our products from 31 distribution centers. These facilities include 13 facilities located in
the United States and 18 facilities located outside the United States in regions where we manufacture our products. We internally manage and operate 18 of these facilities, and we use third party logistics providers who operate the other 13
facilities on our behalf. International distribution operations use a combination of third party logistics providers, as well as owned and operated distribution operations, to distribute goods to our various international markets.

Inventory

Seasonality and Other Factors

Our operating results are subject to some variability due to seasonality and other factors. For instance, we generally have higher sales
during the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons and during periods of cooler weather which benefits certain product categories such as fleece. Our diverse range of product offerings, however, provides some mitigation to the impact of seasonal
changes in demand for certain items. Sales levels in any period are also impacted by customers’ decisions to increase or decrease their inventory levels in response to anticipated consumer demand. Our customers may cancel orders, change
delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us. Media, advertising and promotion expenses (“MAP”) may vary from period to period during a fiscal year depending on the timing of our advertising campaigns
for retail selling seasons and product introductions.

Product Innovation and Marketing

At the core of our design, research and product development capabilities is an integrated team of approximately 190 professionals. A
facility located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, is the center of our research, technical design and product development efforts. We also employ creative design and product development personnel in our design center in New York City and design
personnel at the Gear for Sports facility in Lenexa, Kansas. In 2012, 2011 and 2010, we spent approximately $48 million, $47 million and $47 million, respectively, on design, research and product development, including the development of new and
improved products.

Our ability to react to changing customer needs and industry trends is key to our success. Our design,
research and product development teams, in partnership with our marketing teams, drive our efforts to bring innovations to market. We seek to leverage our insights into consumer demand in the basic apparel industry to







develop new products within our existing lines and to modify our existing core products in ways that make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs and industry trends. Examples of
our recent product innovations include:



•Hanes ComfortBlendundershirts and underwear bottoms that feature a 50/50 cotton/poly blend fabric that delivers superior softness with less
shrinkage after washing.



•HanesTagless underwear bottoms that deliver a new level of comfort with superior softness without the itch and irritation of a
tag.



•Hanes, Playtex, Baliandbarely therebras with our Smart Sizes feature that eliminates the complicated cup-and-band combinations of
traditional bra sizing systems and takes the guess work out of finding the right size through its innovative shape-to-fit technology.



•TheChampionsweetheart compression sports bra that represents a significant departure from the design of traditional compression
sports bras by narrowing the straps and lowering the neckline to be more attractive — all without compromising exceptional support and fit.



•TheChampion Smoothiesports bra with sleek, lightweight fabrics and innovative features designed to deliver ultra-comfortable high support up
to D-cup sizes.



•HanesandL’eggshosiery made with run-resistant technology for beauty that lasts.



•HanesConvert-A-Tight, a patent pending tight that has a toe pocket that completely envelopes the toe or that may be folded back to neatly form
a legging.

Our strategy is to bring consumer-driven innovation to market in a compelling way. Our approach
is to build targeted, effective multimedia advertising and marketing campaigns to increase awareness of our key brands. Driving growth platforms across categories is a major element of our strategy as it enables us to meet key consumer needs and
leverage advertising dollars. We believe that the strength of our consumer insights, our distinctive brand propositions and our focus on integrated marketing give us a competitive advantage in the fragmented apparel marketplace. Examples of our
recent advertising and marketing initiatives include:



•Haneslaunched new national television ads starring Michael Jordan in support ofHanesTagless underwear bottoms and tops
andHanesComfortBlendunderwear. The campaign included a new series of television commercials showing thatHanesTagless underwear bottoms do not contain annoying tags like other underwear and highlighting
the superior softness ofHanes ComfortBlendundershirts.



•Championformally announced a partnership with LXM PRO for the 2012 professional lacrosse tour, allowing us to reach lacrosse fans and elite
players across the U.S.Championis the provider of uniforms and sideline apparel for LXM PRO events as well as the presenting sponsor for the event series.



•We continued to reach out to our consumers through social media, whereHanesandChampionhave over 4.7 million and 730,000 Facebook
fans, respectively.



•We continued our commitment to cause marketing across multiple brands, including: theHanespartnership with Box Tops for Education that will
enable schools across the U.S. to earn valuable Box Tops when they orderHanesproducts or apparel; the fourth annualHanesHoliday Sock Drive to bring comfort in the form of half a million socks to those who need it most;
theL’eggspartnership with Dress for Success, an international not-for-profit organization that promotes the economic independence of disadvantaged women by providing professional attire, a network of support and career development
tools; and theBalipartnership with The Breast Cancer Research Foundation, which plays a critical role in helping women with breast cancer.

Competition

The basic apparel market is highly competitive and rapidly
evolving. Competition generally is based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. Our businesses







Intellectual Property

Overview

We market our products under hundreds of trademarks and service marks in the United States and other countries around the world, the most widely recognized of which areHanes, Champion, C9 by Champion,
Bali, Playtex, Just My Size,L’eggs, barely there, Wonderbra, Gear for Sports, Zorba, Sol y OroandRinbros.Some of our products are sold under trademarks that have been licensed from third parties, such asPolo Ralph
Laurenmen’s underwear, and we also hold licenses from various toy and media companies giving us the right to use certain of their proprietary characters, names and trademarks.

Some of our own trademarks are licensed to third parties, such asChampionfor athletic-oriented accessories. In the United States
and Canada, thePlaytextrademark is owned by Playtex Marketing Corporation, of which we own a 50% interest and which grants to us a perpetual royalty-free license to thePlaytextrademark on and in connection with the sale of apparel
in the United States and Canada. The other 50% interest in Playtex Marketing Corporation is owned by Playtex Products, Inc., an unrelated third party, who has a perpetual royalty-free license to thePlaytextrademark on and in connection with
the sale of non-apparel products in the United States. Outside the United States and Canada, we own thePlaytextrademark and perpetually license such trademark to Playtex Products, Inc. for non-apparel products. In addition, as described
below, an affiliate of Sun Capital Partners, Inc., or “Sun Capital,” has an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under theWonderbraandPlaytextrademarks in the
member states of the European Union, as well as several other European nations and South Africa. We also own a number of copyrights. Our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. We aggressively
protect these trademarks and copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings.

Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally remain valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Most of the trademarks in our portfolio, including
our core brands, are covered by trademark registrations in the countries of the world in which we do business, in addition to many other jurisdictions around the world, with registration periods generally ranging between seven and 10 years depending
on the country. Generally, trademark registrations can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. We have an active program designed to ensure that our trademarks are registered, renewed, protected and maintained. We plan to
continue to use all of our core trademarks and plan to renew the registrations for such trademarks as needed. Most of our copyrights are unregistered, although we have a sizable portfolio of copyrighted lace designs that are the subject of a number
of registrations at the U.S. Copyright Office.







We place high importance on product innovation and design, and a number of these innovations
and designs are the subject of patents. However, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how that we have
not patented.

Shared Trademark Relationship with Sun Capital

Wonderbra

Playtex

Wonderbra

Playtex

Wonderbra

Playtex

DIM

UNNO

DIM

DIM

UNNO

DIM

UNNO

Geographic Financial Summary

For a summary of our operations by geographic area for each of the three most recent fiscal years, including revenues from
external customers and long-lived assets, see Note 19, “Geographic Area Information,” to our financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters

We are subject to U.S.
federal, state and local laws and regulations that could affect our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product
Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various environmental laws and regulations. Some of our international businesses are subject to similar laws and regulations in the countries in which they
operate. Our operations also are subject to various international trade agreements and regulations. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental regulations, current governmental regulations
may change or become more stringent or unforeseen events may occur, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects,
including laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal
sanctions. We are aware of hazardous substances or petroleum releases at certain of our facilities and are working with the relevant environmental authorities to investigate and address such releases. We also have been identified as a
“potentially responsible party” at certain waste disposal sites undergoing investigation and cleanup under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as Superfund) or state Superfund
equivalent programs. Where we have determined that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can reasonably be estimated, we have accrued amounts in our balance sheet for losses related to these sites. Compliance with environmental
laws and regulations and our







remedial environmental obligations historically have not had a material impact on our operations, and we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger
significant costs or capital expenditures in connection with such compliance.

Corporate Social Responsibility

We have a formal corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) program that consists of five core initiatives: a global ethics program
for all employees worldwide; a facility compliance program that seeks to ensure that company and supplier plants meet our labor and social compliance standards; a product safety program; global environmental management and energy management systems
that seek to reduce the environmental impact of our operations; and a commitment to corporate philanthropy which seeks to meet the “fundamental needs” of the communities in which we live and work. We employ more than 15 full-time CSR
personnel across the world to manage our program.

Hanesbrands’ global social compliance program is fully accredited by
the Fair Labor Association (the “FLA”), a leading independent nongovernmental international workers’ rights organization. The FLA works with industry, civil society organizations and colleges and universities to protect workers’
rights and improve working conditions in factories around the world. A representative of Hanesbrands sits on the FLA governing board. Participating companies in the FLA are required to fulfill 10 comprehensive obligations to protect workers’
rights, including conducting internal monitoring of facilities, submitting to independent monitoring audits and verification, and managing and reporting information on their compliance efforts. The FLA conducts unannounced, independent external
monitoring audits of a sample of a participating company’s plants and suppliers and publishes the results of those audits for the public to review. As You Sow, a San Francisco-based shareholder advocacy organization, issued a report on apparel
supply chain compliance programs and awarded Hanesbrands’ program with the third-highest grade of the 15 companies studied. In 2012, Free 2 Work, an organization working in conjunction with the International Labor Rights Forum, gave Hanesbrands
an overall grade of “A” for our compliance program — well ahead of most of our competitors.

We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas footprint, and we have implemented a comprehensive corporate energy
policy to minimize energy consumption, reduce operating costs, and continually reduce emissions to the environment. We manage this commitment by reducing our energy consumption as much as possible, exploring better supply chain management to reduce
our use of energy-intensive transportation, adopting cleaner technologies where possible and actively tracking our energy metrics. We have also worked closely with Energy Star, a program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that helps save
money and protect the environment through energy efficient products and practices. Hanesbrands earned the U.S. EPA Energy Star Partner of the Year Award in 2010 and 2011 for energy efficiency progress and the Sustained Excellence in Energy
Management Award in 2012. In Newsweek’s latest annual list of the 500 greenest companies in America, Hanesbrands ranks second in the Textile, Apparel and Luxury Companies Category.

We also incorporate Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (“LEED”) practices into many remodeling and new construction
projects for our facilities around the world, including sales offices, retail stores, headquarters buildings, distribution centers and manufacturing facilities. Our more than one million-square-foot fabric production plant in Nanjing, China, is one
of the few manufacturing facilities with LEED certification in that country, and our 1.3 million-square-foot distribution center in Perris, California, is one of the largest LEED-certified distribution centers in the world. Sustainable features
of the LEED-certified facilities include reduction of energy usage through extensive use of natural skylighting, motion-detection lighting, advanced climate control technology, reduction of water usage through low-water bathroom fixtures and
low-water landscaping, innovative site grading techniques and use of locally produced concrete.

Our corporate philanthropic
efforts are focused on meeting the “fundamental needs” of the communities in which we live and work. In 2012, we were again the largest corporate giver to our local United Way in Forsyth County, N.C., with our corporate and employee gifts
totaling more than $2.2 million. We were recently







recognized with the United Way of Forsyth County’s “Decade of Excellence Award.” In Central America and the Caribbean basin, we have instituted the unique Green For Good program
(Viviendo Verde), in which we use a large portion of the proceeds from recycling waste materials in our manufacturing operations for community improvement projects, such as school and health-clinic renovations, that also are supported through
extensive employee volunteerism.

Employees

As of December 29, 2012, we had approximately 51,500 employees, approximately 7,600 of whom were located in the United States. Of the employees located in the United States, approximately 2,100 were
full or part-time employees in our stores within our direct to consumer channel. As of December 29, 2012, in the United States, approximately 30 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Some of our international employees
were also covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relationships with our employees are good.



