Item 1.Business

General

We are a consumer goods company with a portfolio of leading apparel brands, includingHanes,Champion,Playtex,Bali,L’eggs,Just My Size,barely there,Wonderbra,Stedman,Outer Banks,Zorba,Rinbros, DuofoldandGear for Sports. We design, manufacture, source and sell a broad range
of basic apparel such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, casualwear,
activewear, socks and hosiery.

The basic apparel sector of the apparel industry is characterized by frequently replenished
items, such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, socks and hosiery. Growth
and sales in the basic apparel sector are not primarily driven by fashion, in contrast to other
areas of the broader apparel industry. We focus on the core attributes of comfort, fit and value,
while remaining current with regard to consumer trends. The majority of our core styles continue
from year to year, with variations only in color, fabric or design details. Some products, however,
such as intimate apparel, activewear and sheer hosiery, do have more of an emphasis on style and
innovation. We continue to invest in our largest and strongest brands to achieve our long-term
growth goals. In addition to designing and marketing basic apparel, we have a long history of
operating a global supply chain that incorporates a mix of self-manufacturing, third-party
contractors and third-party sourcing. On November 1, 2010, we completed our acquisition of GearCo,
Inc., known as Gear for Sports, a leading seller of licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores
and other channels.

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. All references to “2010,” “2009”
and “2008” relate to the 52 week fiscal years ended on January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010 and the
53 week fiscal year ended on January 3, 2009, respectively.

Our operations are managed and reported in five operating segments, each of which is a
reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Outerwear, Hosiery, Direct to
Consumer and International. These segments are organized principally by product category,
geographic location and distribution channel. Each segment has its own management that is
responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses but the segments share a common supply
chain and media and marketing platforms. In October 2009, we completed the sale of our yarn
operations and, as a result, we no longer have net sales in the Other segment, which was primarily
comprised of sales of yarn to third parties. The following table summarizes our operating segments
by category:

SegmentPrimary ProductsPrimary BrandsInnerwearIntimate apparel, such as bras,
panties and shapewearHanes, Playtex, Bali, barelythere, Just My Size, WonderbraMen’s underwear and kids’ underwearHanes, Polo Ralph Lauren*SocksHanes, ChampionOuterwearActivewear, such as performanceChampion, Duofold, Gear for SportsT-shirts and shorts, fleece,
sports bras and thermalsCasualwear, such as T-shirts,
fleece and sport shirtsHanes, Just My Size, Outer Banks,
Champion, HanesBeefy-THosieryHosieryL’eggs, Hanes, Donna Karan,*
DKNY,*Just My Size





SegmentPrimary ProductsPrimary BrandsDirect to ConsumerActivewear, men’s
underwear, kids’
underwear, intimate
apparel, socks, hosiery
and casualwearBali, Hanes, Playtex,
Champion, barely there,
L’eggs,Just My SizeInternationalActivewear, men’s
underwear, kids’
underwear, intimate
apparel, socks, hosiery
and casualwearHanes, Champion,
Wonderbra,** Playtex,**
Stedman,Zorba, Rinbros,
Kendall,* Sol y Oro,
Bali, Ritmo



*Brand used under a license agreement.**As a result of the February 2006 sale of the European branded apparel business of Sara Lee
Corporation, or “Sara Lee,” we are not permitted to sell this brand in the member states of
the European Union, or the “EU,” several other European countries and South Africa.

Our brands have a strong heritage in the basic apparel industry. According to The NPD
Group/Consumer Tracking Service, or “NPD,” our brands held either the number one or number two U.S.
market position by units sold in most product categories in which we compete, for the 12-month
period ended December 31, 2010.

Our products are sold through multiple distribution channels. During 2010, approximately 44%
of our net sales were to mass merchants in the United States, 15% were to national chains and
department stores in the United States, 12% were in our International segment, 9% were in our
Direct to Consumer segment in the United States, and 20% were to other retail channels in the
United States such as embellishers, specialty retailers, wholesale clubs and sporting goods stores.
We have strong, long-term relationships with our top customers, including relationships of more
than ten years with each of our top ten customers. The size and operational scale of the
high-volume retailers with which we do business require extensive category and product knowledge
and specialized services regarding the quantity, quality and planning of product orders. We have
organized multifunctional customer management teams, which has allowed us to form strategic
long-term relationships with these customers and efficiently focus resources on category, product
and service expertise. We also have customer-specific programs such as theC9 by Championproducts
marketed and sold through Target stores and ourJust My Sizeprogram at Wal-Mart stores.

Our ability to react to changing customer needs and industry trends is key to our success. Our
design, research and product development teams, in partnership with our marketing teams, drive our
efforts to bring innovations to market. We seek to leverage our insights into consumer demand in
the basic apparel industry to develop new products within our existing lines and to modify our
existing core products in ways that make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs
and industry trends. Examples of our recent innovations include:

•Barely There Smart Sizes, a new bra sizing system that simplifies and streamlines the
traditional bra sizing configuration from 16 sizes to just five sizes with innovative, “shape
to fit” technology (2010).•Wonderbra Secret Agent No Slip FitCollection includes bras that feature shaping stay-in-place back and no slip straps
that secretly work together to ensure everything stays comfortably in place all day (2010).•Bali Comfort-UBra with a feature that ensures that the straps and back stay in place,
delivering the ultimate fit and comfort in a place most women don’t think to look—the back
(2010).•Hanes Comfort FlexUnderwear feature a softer, more stretchable waistband that
comfortably shifts without pinching or binding (2010).•Hanesdyed V-neck underwear T-shirts in black, gray and navy colors (2009).•Champion360° Max Support sports bra that controls movement in all directions,
scientifically tested on athletes to deliver 360° support (2009).





•Playtex 18 Hour SeamlessSmoothing bra that features fused fabric to smooth sides and
back (2009).•BaliNatural Uplift bras that feature advanced lift for the bust without adding size
(2009).•HanesNo Ride Up panties, specially designed for a better fit that helps women stay
“wedgie-free” (2008).•HanesLay Flat Collar T-shirts andHanesNo Ride Up boxer briefs, an
innovation in product comfort and fit (2008).•Playtex 18 HourActive Lifestyle bra that features active styling with wickable fabric
(2008).•Bali Concealersbras, with revolutionary concealing petals for complete modesty (2008).•HanesConcealing Petals bras (2008).

Our Brands

Our portfolio of leading brands is designed to address the needs and wants of various consumer
segments across a broad range of basic apparel products. Each of our brands has a particular
consumer positioning that distinguishes it from its competitors and guides its advertising and
product development. We discuss some of our most important brands in more detail below.

Hanesis the largest and most widely recognized brand in our portfolio. TheHanesbrand covers all of our product categories, including men’s underwear,
kids’ underwear, bras, panties, socks, T-shirts, fleece and sheer hosiery.Hanesstands for
outstanding comfort, style and value. According to Millward Brown Market Research,Hanesis found
in 88% of the U.S. households that have purchased men’s or women’s casual clothing or underwear in
the five-month period ended December 31, 2010.

Championis our second-largest brand. Specializing in athletic and other performance apparel,
theChampionbrand is designed for everyday athletes. We believe thatChampion’s combination of
comfort, fit and style provides athletes with mobility, durability and up-to-date styles, all
product qualities that are important in the sale of athletic products. We also distributeC9 by
Championproducts exclusively through Target stores.

Playtex, the third-largest brand within our portfolio, offers a line of bras, panties and
shapewear, including products that offer solutions for hard to fit figures.Baliis the
fourth-largest brand within our portfolio, offering a range of bras, panties and shapewear sold in
the department store channel. Our brand portfolio also includes the
following well-known brands:L’eggs,Just My Size,barely there,Wonderbra,Outer Banks,DuofoldandGear for





Sports.We entered into an agreement with Wal-Mart in 2009 that significantly
expanded the presence of ourJust My Sizebrand. These brands serve to round out our product
offerings, allowing us to give consumers a variety of options to meet their diverse needs.

Our Segments

Our operations are managed and reported in five operating segments, each of which is a
reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Outerwear, Hosiery, Direct to
Consumer and International. These segments are organized principally by product category,
geographic location and distribution channel. Each segment has its own management that is
responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses but the segments share a common supply
chain and media and marketing platforms. In October 2009, we completed the sale of our yarn
operations and, as a result, we no longer have net sales in the Other segment, which was primarily
comprised of sales of yarn to third parties. For more information about our segments, see Note 18
to our financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Innerwear

The Innerwear segment focuses on core apparel products, such as women’s intimate apparel,
men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, and socks, marketed under well-known brands that are trusted by
consumers. We are an intimate apparel category leader in the United States with ourHanes,Playtex,Bali,barely there,Just My SizeandWonderbrabrands. We are also a leading manufacturer
and marketer of men’s underwear and kids’ underwear under theHanesandPolo Ralph Laurenbrand
names. During 2010, net sales from our Innerwear segment were $2.0 billion, representing
approximately 46% of total net sales.

Outerwear

We are a leader in the casualwear and activewear markets through ourHanes,Champion,Just My
SizeandDuofoldbrands, where we offer products such as T-shirts and fleece. Our casualwear lines
offer a range of quality, comfortable clothing for men, women and children marketed under theHanesandJust My Sizebrands. TheJust My Sizebrand offers casual apparel designed exclusively to meet
the needs of plus-size women. In 2009, we entered into a multi-year agreement to provide a women’s
casualwear program with ourJust My Sizebrand at Wal-Mart stores. In addition to activewear for
men and women,Championprovides uniforms for athletic programs and includes an apparel program,C9
by Champion, at Target stores. We also license ourChampionname for collegiate apparel and
footwear. We also supply our T-shirts, sport shirts and fleece products, including brands such asHanes,Champion,Outer BanksandHanes Beefy-T, to customers, primarily wholesalers, who then
resell to screen printers and embellishers. On November 1, 2010, we completed our acquisition of
Gear for Sports, a leading seller of licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores and other
channels, which significantly strengthens our strategy of creating stronger branded and defensible
businesses in our Outerwear segment. The operating results of Gear for Sports are included in the
Outerwear segment. During 2010, net sales from our Outerwear segment were $1.3 billion,
representing approximately 29% of total net sales.

Hosiery

We are the leading marketer of women’s sheer hosiery in the United States. We compete in the
hosiery market by striving to offer superior values and executing integrated marketing activities,
as well as focusing on the style of our hosiery products. We market hosiery products under ourL’eggs,HanesandJust My Sizebrands. During 2010, net sales from our Hosiery segment were $167
million, representing approximately 4% of total net sales. We expect the trend of declining hosiery
sales to continue consistent with the overall decline in the industry and with shifts in consumer
preferences.

Direct to Consumer

Our Direct to Consumer operations include our value-based (“outlet”) stores and Internet
operations which sell products from our portfolio of leading brands. We sell our branded products
directly to consumers through our
outlet stores, as well as our websites operating under theHanes,One Hanes Place,Just My
SizeandChampion





names. Our Internet operations are supported by our catalogs. As of January 1,
2011 and January 2, 2010, we had 224 and 228 outlet stores, respectively. During 2010, net sales
from our Direct to Consumer segment were $378 million, representing approximately 9% of total net
sales.

International

Our International segment includes products that span across the Innerwear, Outerwear and
Hosiery reportable segments and are primarily marketed under theHanes,Champion,Wonderbra,Playtex,Stedman,Zorba,Rinbros,Kendall, Sol y Oro,BaliandRitmobrands. During 2010, net
sales from our International segment were $509 million, representing approximately 12% of total net
sales and included sales in Latin America, Asia, Canada, Europe and South America. Our largest
international markets are Canada, Japan, Mexico, Europe and Brazil, and we also have sales offices
in India and China.

Design, Research and Product Development

At the core of our design, research and product development capabilities is an integrated team of over 325
professionals.  A facility located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, is
the center of our research, technical design and product development efforts. We also employ
creative design and product development personnel in our design center in New York City
and design personnel at the Gear for Sports facility in Lenexa, Kansas. In 2010,
2009 and 2008, we spent approximately $47 million, $46 million and $46 million, respectively, on
design, research and product development, including the development of new and improved products.

Customers

In 2010, approximately 88% of our net sales were to customers in the United States and
approximately 12% were to customers outside the United States. Domestically, almost 81% of our net
sales were wholesale sales to retailers, 10% were direct to consumers and 9% were wholesale sales
to wholesalers and third-party embellishers. We have well-established relationships with some of
the largest apparel retailers in the world. Our largest customers are Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., or
“Wal-Mart,” Target Corporation, or “Target,” and Kohl’s Corporation, or “Kohl’s,” accounting for
26%, 17% and 6%, respectively, of our total sales in 2010. As is common in the basic apparel
industry, we generally do not have purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our
products. However, all of our key customer relationships have been in place for ten years or more.
Wal-Mart, Target, Kohl’s and CVS Caremark, “CVS,” are our only customers with sales that exceed 10%
of any individual segment’s sales. In our Innerwear segment, Wal-Mart accounted for 38% of sales,
Target accounted for 16% of sales and Kohl’s accounted for 11% of sales during 2010. In our
Outerwear segment, Target accounted for 31% of sales and Wal-Mart accounted for 20% of sales during
2010. In our Hosiery segment, Wal-Mart accounted for 25% of sales, Target accounted
for 12% of sales and CVS accounted for 11% of sales during 2010.

Due to their size and operational scale, high-volume retailers such as Wal-Mart and Target
require extensive category and product knowledge and specialized services regarding the quantity,
quality and timing of product orders. We have organized multifunctional customer management teams,
which has allowed us to form strategic long-term relationships with these customers and efficiently
focus resources on category, product and service expertise. Smaller regional customers attracted
to our leading brands and quality products also represent an important component of our
distribution. Our organizational model provides for an efficient use of resources that delivers a
high level of category and channel expertise and services to these customers.

Sales to the mass merchant channel in the United States accounted for approximately 44% of our
net sales in 2010. We sell all of our product categories in this channel primarily under ourHanes,Just My SizeandPlaytexbrands. Mass merchants feature high-volume, low-cost sales of
basic apparel items along with a diverse variety of consumer goods products, such as grocery and
drug products and other hard lines, and are characterized by large retailers, such as Wal-Mart.
Wal-Mart, which accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales in 2010, is our largest mass
merchant customer.

Sales to the national chains and department stores channel in the United States accounted for
approximately 15% of our net sales in 2010. These retailers target a higher-income consumer than
mass merchants, focus more of





their sales on apparel items rather than other consumer goods such as
grocery and drug products, and are characterized by large retailers such as Kohl’s, JC Penney
Company, Inc. and Sears Holdings Corporation. We sell all of our product categories in this
channel. Traditional department stores target higher-income consumers and carry more high-end,
fashion conscious products than national chains or mass merchants and tend to operate in
higher-income areas and commercial centers. Traditional department stores are characterized by
large retailers such as Macy’s and Dillard’s, Inc. We sell products in our intimate apparel,
hosiery, socks, activewear and underwear categories through department stores.

Sales in our Direct to Consumer segment in the United States accounted for approximately 9% of
our net sales in 2010. We sell our branded products directly to consumers through our 224 outlet
stores, as well as our websites operating under theHanes,One Hanes Place,Just My SizeandChampionnames. Our outlet stores are value-based, offering the consumer a savings of 25% to 40%
off suggested retail prices, and sell first-quality, excess, post-season, obsolete and slightly
imperfect products. Our websites, supported by our catalogs, address the growing direct to
consumer channel that operates in today’s 24/7 retail environment, and we have an active database
of approximately four million consumers receiving our catalogs and emails. Our websites received over 20 million unique visitors in 2010.

Sales in our International segment represented approximately 12% of our net sales in 2010, and
included sales in Latin America, Asia, Canada, Europe and South America. Our largest international
markets are Canada, Japan, Mexico, Europe and Brazil, and we also have sales offices in India and
China. We operate in several locations in Latin America including Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and
Central America. From an export business perspective, we use distributors to service customers in
the Middle East and Asia, and have a limited presence in Latin America. The brands that are the
primary focus of the export business includeHanesandChampionsocks,Championactivewear,Hanesunderwear andBali,Playtex,Wonderbraandbarely thereintimate apparel. As discussed below under
“Intellectual Property,” we are not permitted to sellWonderbraandPlaytexbranded products in the
member states of the EU, several other European countries, and South Africa. For more information
about our sales on a geographic basis, see Note 19 to our financial statements.

Sales in other channels in the United States represented approximately 20% of our net sales in
2010. We sell T-shirts, golf and sport shirts and fleece sweatshirts to wholesalers and
third-party embellishers primarily under ourHanes,Hanes Beefy-TandOuter Banksbrands. Sales to
wholesalers and third-party embellishers accounted for approximately 8% of our net sales in 2010.
We also sell a significant range of our underwear, activewear and socks products under theChampionbrand to wholesale clubs, such as Costco, and sporting goods stores, such as The Sports Authority,
Inc. We sell primarily legwear and underwear products under theHanesandL’eggsbrands to food,
drug and variety stores. We sell products that span across our Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery
segments to the U.S. military for sale to servicemen and servicewomen.

Inventory





Seasonality

Our operating results are subject to some variability due to seasonality and other factors.
Generally, our diverse range of product offerings helps mitigate the impact of seasonal changes in
demand for certain items. Sales are typically higher in the last two quarters (July to December)
of each fiscal year. Socks, hosiery and fleece products generally have higher sales during this
period as a result of cooler weather, back-to-school shopping and holidays. Sales levels in any
period are also impacted by customers’ decisions to increase or decrease their inventory levels in
response to anticipated consumer demand. Our customers may cancel orders, change delivery
schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us. Media, advertising and
promotion (“MAP”) expenses may vary from period to period during a fiscal year depending on the
timing of our advertising campaigns for retail selling seasons and product introductions.

Marketing

Our strategy is to bring consumer-driven innovation to market in a compelling way. Our
approach is to build targeted, effective multimedia advertising and marketing campaigns to increase
awareness of our key brands. Driving growth platforms across categories is a major element of our
strategy as it enables us to meet key consumer needs and leverage advertising dollars. We believe
that the strength of our consumer insights, our distinctive brand propositions and our focus on
integrated marketing give us a competitive advantage in the fragmented apparel marketplace.

In 2010, we launched a number of new advertising and marketing initiatives:

•Haneslaunched a new men’s underwear marketing campaign starring Michael Jordan in a new
television commercial that showsHanesLay Flat Collar undershirts will never suffer from
wavy “bacon necks” like other shirts.•Hanesannounced a new national environmental advertising campaign, titled “For Future
Generations.” The ad, which began airing in the Spring of 2010, takes a lighthearted
approach to the brand’s environmental responsibility efforts, including eco-friendly
products.Hanesalso debuted a new consumer website(www.hanesgreen.com)where
visitors can learn more about the brand’s environmental responsibility effort and watch the
“Future Generations” ad.•Championintroduced a sports bra blog designed to spur online dialogue around all things
related to breast health and sports bras. The blog features comments and questions by
women of all fitness levels from industry experts to first-time exercisers as well as the
latest on emerging product innovations and style choices.•Playtexbegan airing a series of web videos featuring 10 women who won aPlaytexbra
makeover trip to New York with style expert Allison Deyette.

We also continued some of our existing advertising and marketing initiatives:

•We continued our television advertising campaign in support ofHanesComfort Fit socks
for the family.•Championcontinued its “What’s Your Everest” marketing campaign and online community to
support people in reaching their personal aspirations and goals, as accomplished
international mountaineer and motivational speaker Jamie Clarke led Expedition Hanesbrands
to the top of Mount Everest, driving brand
awareness forChampionandDuofoldbrands and showcasing our research and development innovation
and textile science leadership.





•Hanescontinued its role as the Official Apparel Sponsor of Passionately Pink for the
Cure, a fund-raising program created by Susan G. Komen for the Cure that inspires breast
cancer advocacy and honors those affected by the disease.Hanesalso offers a special “pink
collection” of panties, bras, socks and graphic tees, and has created a campaign website,www.hanespink.com, that features interactive content to inspire people to make a difference
in the breast cancer support community.•We continued our men’s underwear advertising featuring Michael Jordan, in support ofHanesLay Flat Collar T-shirts and No Ride Up boxer briefs.•We continued our “How You Play” national advertising campaign forChampion. The campaign
includes print, out-of-home and online components and is designed to capture the everyday
moments of fun and sport in a series of cool and hip lifestyle images.•We continued the “Live Beautifully” campaign for ourBalibrand. The print, television
and online advertising campaign featuresBalibras, panties and shapewear.•We continued our innovative and expressive advertising and marketing campaign called
“Girl Talk,” in which confident, everyday women talk about their breasts, in support of ourPlaytex 18 HourandPlaytex Secretsproduct lines.

Distribution

As of January 1, 2011, we distributed our products from a total of 31 distribution centers.
These facilities include 15 facilities located in the United States and 16 facilities located
outside the United States in regions where we manufacture our products. We internally manage and
operate 18 of these facilities, and we use third-party logistics providers who operate the other 13
facilities on our behalf. International distribution operations use a combination of third-party
logistics providers, as well as owned and operated distribution operations, to distribute goods to
our various international markets.

We have reduced the number of distribution centers from the 48 that we maintained at the time
we became an independent public company to 31 as of January 1, 2011. We consolidated our
distribution network by implementing new warehouse management systems and technology and adding
new distribution centers and new third-party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy
distribution network, including relocating distribution capacity to our West Coast distribution
facility in California in order to expand capacity for goods we source from Asia.

Manufacturing and Sourcing

During 2010, approximately 63% of our finished goods sold were manufactured through a
combination of facilities we own and operate and facilities owned and operated by third-party
contractors who perform some of the steps in the manufacturing process for us, such as cutting
and/or sewing. We sourced the remainder of our finished goods from third-party manufacturers who
supply us with finished products based on our designs. We believe that our balanced approach to
product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and sourced manufacturing
located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces
product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Hanesbrands

The manufacturing process for the finished goods that we manufacture begins with raw materials
we obtain from suppliers. The principal raw materials in our product categories are cotton and
synthetics. Our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating
cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other factors, weather, consumer demand, speculation on
the commodities market, the relative valuations and
fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that
are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. We are able to lock in the cost of cotton
reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect us
from severe market fluctuations in the wholesale prices





of cotton. In addition to cotton yarn and
cotton-based textiles, we use thread, narrow elastic and trim for product identification, buttons,
zippers, snaps and lace.

Fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may also influence the prices of items used in
our business, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. Alternate sources of these
materials and services are readily available. Cotton and synthetic materials are typically spun
into yarn, which is then knitted into cotton, synthetic and blended fabrics. Although historically
we have spun a significant portion of the yarn and knit a significant portion of the fabrics we use
in our owned and operated facilities, in October 2009 we completed the sale of our yarn operations
as a result of which we ceased making our own yarn and now source all of our yarn requirements from
large-scale yarn suppliers. To a lesser extent, we purchase fabric from several domestic and
international suppliers in conjunction with scheduled production. These fabrics are cut and sewn
into finished products, either by us or by third-party contractors. Most of our cutting and sewing
operations are strategically located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin.

Rising fuel, energy and utility costs may have a significant impact on our manufacturing
costs. These costs may fluctuate due to a number of factors outside our control, including
government policy and regulation, foreign exchange rates and weather conditions.

We continued to consolidate our manufacturing facilities and currently operate 43
manufacturing facilities, down from 70 at the time we became an independent public company. In
making decisions about the location of manufacturing operations and third-party sources of supply,
we consider a number of factors, including labor, local operating costs, quality, regional
infrastructure, applicable quotas and duties, and freight costs. We commenced production at our
textile production plant in Nanjing, China, which is our first company-owned textile facility in
Asia, in the fourth quarter of 2009 and we ramped up production in 2010 to support our growth, with
the expectation of ramping up to full capacity by the end of 2011. The Nanjing textile facility
will enable us to expand and leverage our production scale in Asia as we balance our supply chain
across hemispheres, thereby diversifying our production risks.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Third Parties

In addition to our manufacturing capabilities, we also source finished goods we design from
third-party manufacturers, also referred to as “turnkey products.” Many of these turnkey products
are sourced from international suppliers by our strategic sourcing hubs in Hong Kong and other
locations in Asia.

All contracted and sourced manufacturing must meet our high quality standards. Further, all
contractors and third-party manufacturers must be preaudited and adhere to our strict supplier and
business practices guidelines. These requirements provide strict standards covering hours of work,
age of workers, health and safety conditions and conformity with local laws and Hanesbrands’
standards. Each new supplier must be inspected and agree to comprehensive compliance terms prior
to performance of any production on our behalf. We audit compliance with these standards and
maintain strict compliance performance records. In addition to our audit procedures, we require
certain of our suppliers to be Worldwide Responsible Apparel Production, or “WRAP,” certified.
WRAP is a recognized apparel certification program that independently monitors and certifies
compliance with certain specified manufacturing standards that are intended to ensure that a given
factory produces sewn goods under lawful, humane, and ethical conditions. WRAP uses third-party,
independent certification firms and requires factory-by-factory certification.

Trade Regulation

We are exposed to certain risks of doing business outside of the United States. We import
goods from company-owned facilities in Asia, Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Mexico, and
from suppliers in those areas and in Europe, South America, Africa and the Middle East. These
import transactions are subject to customs, trade and other laws and regulations governing their
entry into the United States and to tariffs applicable to such merchandise.

In addition, much of the merchandise we import is subject to duty free entry into the United
States under various trade preferences and/or free trade agreements provided the goods meet certain
criteria and characteristics.





Compliance with these specific requirements as well as all other
requirements is reviewed periodically by the United States Customs and Border Control and other
governmental agencies.

Finally, imported apparel merchandise may be subject to various restrictive trade actions
initiated by the United States government, domestic industry, labor or other parties under various
U.S. laws. Such actions could result in the U.S. government imposing quotas or additional tariffs
against apparel under special safeguard actions applicable to China, other safeguard actions
applicable to any country, or antidumping or countervailing duties applicable to specific products
from specific countries. Currently there are no such actions, additional, special or safeguard
duties or quotas imposed against products which we import. Our management evaluates the possible
impact of these and similar actions on our ability to import products from China and other
countries. If such safeguards or duties were to be imposed, we do not expect that these restraints
would have a material impact on us.

Our management monitors new developments and risks relating to duties, tariffs and quotas.
Changes in these areas have the potential to harm or, in some cases, benefit our business. In
response to the changing import environment management has chosen to continue its balanced approach
to manufacturing and sourcing. We attempt to limit our sourcing exposure through geographic
diversification with a mix of company-owned and contracted production, as well as shifts of
production among countries and contractors. We will continue to manage our supply chain from a
global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global production environment.

We also monitor a number of international security risks. We are a member of the
Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, or “C-TPAT,” a partnership between the government and
private sector initiated after the events of September 11, 2001 to improve supply chain and border
security. C-TPAT partners work with U.S. Customs and Border Protection to protect their supply
chains from concealment of terrorist weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. In exchange,
U.S. Customs and Border Protection provides reduced inspections at the port of arrival and
expedited processing at the border.

Competition

The basic apparel market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Competition generally is
based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing
convenience. Our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign
manufacturers. Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., competes with us
across most of our segments through its own offerings and those of its Russell Corporation and
Vanity Fair Intimates offerings. Other competitors in our Innerwear segment include Limited
Brands, Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret brand, Jockey International, Inc., Warnaco Group Inc. and
Maidenform Brands, Inc. Other competitors in our Outerwear segment include various private label
and controlled brands sold by many of our customers, Gildan Activewear, Inc. and Gap Inc. We also
compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including our
International segment. Additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our
customers, market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with
our brands.

Our competitive strengths include our strong brands with leading market positions, our
high-volume, core products focus, our significant scale of operations, our global supply chain and
our strong customer relationships.

•Strong brands with leading market positions.According to NPD, our brands held either
the number one or number two U.S. market position by units sold in most product categories
in which we compete, for the 12-month period ended December 31, 2010. According to NPD,
our largest brand,Hanes, was the top-selling apparel brand in the United States by units
sold, for the 12-month period ended December 31, 2010.•High-volume, core products.We sell high-volume, frequently replenished basic apparel
products. The majority of our core styles continue from year to year, with variations only
in color, fabric or design details, and are frequently replenished by consumers. We
believe that our status as a high-volume seller of core basic apparel products creates a
more stable and predictable revenue base and reduces our exposure to dramatic fashion
shifts often observed in the general apparel industry.•Significant scale of operations.According to NPD, we are the largest seller of basic
apparel in the United States as measured by units sold for the 12-month period ended
December 31, 2010. Most of our products





are sold to large retailers that have high-volume
demands. We believe that we are able to leverage our significant scale of operations to
provide us with greater manufacturing efficiencies, purchasing power and product design,
marketing and customer management resources than our smaller competitors.•Global supply chain.We have restructured our supply chain over the past four years to
create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to
balance our production capability between the Western Hemisphere and Asia. With our global
supply chain infrastructure in place, we are focused long-term on optimizing our supply
chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce
costs through several initiatives, such as supplier-managed inventory for raw materials and
sourced goods ownership arrangements.•Strong customer relationships.We sell our products primarily through large,
high-volume retailers, including mass merchants, department stores and national chains. We
have strong, long-term relationships with our top customers, including relationships of
more than ten years with each of our top ten customers. We have aligned significant parts
of our organization with corresponding parts of our customers’ organizations. We also have
entered into customer-specific programs such as theC9 by Championproducts marketed and
sold through Target stores and ourJust My Sizeprogram at Wal-Mart.

Intellectual Property

Overview

We market our products under hundreds of trademarks and service marks in the United States and
other countries around the world, the most widely recognized of which areHanes, Champion, C9 by
Champion, Playtex, Bali, L’eggs, Just My Size, barely there,Wonderbra, Stedman, Outer Banks,
Zorba, Rinbros,DuofoldandGear for Sports.Some of our products are sold under trademarks that
have been licensed from third parties, such asPolo Ralph Laurenmen’s underwear, and we also hold
licenses from various toy and media companies that give us the right to use certain of their
proprietary characters, names and trademarks.

Champion

Playtex

Playtex

Playtex

Playtex

Wonderbra

Playtex

Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally remain valid as long as they are
in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Most of the trademarks in our
portfolio, including our core brands, are covered by trademark registrations in the countries of
the world in which we do business, with registration periods generally ranging between seven and 10
years depending on the country. Generally, trademark registrations can be renewed indefinitely as
long as the trademarks are in use. We have an active program designed to ensure that our
trademarks are registered, renewed, protected and maintained. We plan to continue to use all of
our core trademarks and plan to renew the registrations for such trademarks as needed. Most of our
copyrights are unregistered, although we have a sizable portfolio of copyrighted lace designs that
are the subject of a number of registrations at the U.S. Copyright Office.

We place high importance on product innovation and design, and a number of these innovations
and designs are the subject of patents. However, we do not regard any segment of our business as
being dependent upon any single





patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own
proprietary trade secrets, technology, and know-how that we have not patented.

Shared Trademark Relationship with Sun Capital

In February 2006, Sara Lee sold its European branded apparel business to an affiliate of Sun
Capital. In connection with the sale, Sun Capital received an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free
license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under theWonderbraandPlaytextrademarks in the member states of the EU, as well as Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia,
Macedonia, Moldova, Morocco, Norway, Russia, Serbia-Montenegro, South Africa, Switzerland, Ukraine,
Andorra, Albania, Channel Islands, Lichtenstein, Monaco, Gibraltar, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion
and French Guyana, which we refer to as the “Covered Nations.” We are not permitted to sellWonderbraandPlaytexbranded products in the Covered Nations, and Sun Capital is not permitted to
sellWonderbraandPlaytexbranded products outside of the Covered Nations. In connection with the
sale, we also have received an exclusive, perpetual royalty-free license to sellDIMandUNNObranded products in Panama, Honduras, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Belize, Guatemala,
Mexico, Puerto Rico, the United States, Canada and, forDIMproducts, Japan. We are not permitted
to sellDIMorUNNObranded apparel products outside of these countries and Sun Capital is not
permitted to sellDIMorUNNObranded apparel products inside these countries. In addition, the
rights to certain European-originated brands previously part of Sara Lee’s branded apparel
portfolio were transferred to Sun Capital and are not included in our brand portfolio.

Corporate Social Responsibility

We have a formal corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) program that consists of five core
initiatives: a global ethics program for all employees worldwide; a facility compliance program
that seeks to ensure company and supplier plants meet our labor and social compliance standards; a
product safety program; a global environmental management system that seeks to reduce the
environmental impact of our operations; and a commitment to corporate philanthropy which seeks to
meet the “fundamental needs” of the communities in which we live and work. We employ over 15
full-time CSR personnel across the world to manage our program.

In February 2008, we joined the Fair Labor Association (the “FLA”) and recently completed its
two-year accreditation process of our internal global social compliance program. We are now a
fully accredited member of the FLA. The FLA works with industry, civil society organizations and
colleges and universities to protect workers’ rights and improve working conditions in factories
around the world. Participating companies in the FLA are required to fulfill 10
company obligations, including conducting internal monitoring of facilities, submitting to
independent monitoring audits and verification, and managing and reporting information on their
compliance efforts. The FLA conducts unannounced independent external monitoring audits of a
sample of a participating company’s plants and suppliers and publishes the results of those audits
for the public to review. In November 2010, As You Sow, a San Francisco-based shareholder advocacy
organization, issued a report on apparel supply chain compliance programs and rated Hanesbrands’
program with the third-highest grade of companies studied.

We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas footprint, and we have implemented a
comprehensive corporate energy policy. We manage this commitment by reducing our energy
consumption as much as possible, exploring better supply chain management to reduce our use of
energy-intensive transportation, adopting cleaner technologies where possible, and actively
tracking our energy metrics. Currently, over 30% of our total worldwide energy use comes from
renewable resources. We have reduced our CO2emissions per unit manufactured by over
12% since 2007. We have also worked closely with Energy Star, a joint program of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy that helps save money and protect
the environment through energy efficient products and practices. Hanesbrands earned the U.S. EPA
Energy Star partner of the year award in 2010 for energy efficiency progress. In October 2010,
Newsweek magazine issued its annual list of the 500 greenest companies in America. Hanesbrands
ranks No. 91.

We also incorporate Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, or “LEED”-based practices
into many remodeling and new construction projects for our facilities around the world. We have
earned the U.S. Green Building Council’s sustainability certification for our Bentonville,
Arkansas, and Minneapolis, Minnesota, sales offices and our Perris, California distribution center.
Sustainable features of the Perris facility include reduction of





energy usage through extensive
use of natural skylighting, motion-detection lighting, a design that does not require heating or
air conditioning for a comfortable working environment, reduction of water usage compared with
typical warehouses of its size through low-water bathroom fixtures and low-water landscaping,
innovative site grading techniques and use of locally produced concrete. We are also currently
working on LEED certification of manufacturing facilities in El Salvador, Vietnam and China, as
well as one of our corporate headquarters buildings in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Our corporate philanthropic efforts are focused on meeting the “fundamental needs” of the
communities in which we live and work. In 2010, we were again the largest corporate giver to our
local United Way in Forsyth County, North Carolina, with our corporate and employee gifts totaling
over $2 million. In Central America and the Caribbean Basin, we have instituted a unique Green For
Good program (Viviendo Verde), in which we use the proceeds from recycling waste materials in our
manufacturing operations for community improvement projects, such as school and health-clinic
renovations. For more detail on the full range of our CSR efforts, including our commitment to and
work in our communities, go towww.hanesbrandsCSR.com.

Environmental Matters

Governmental Regulation

We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations that could affect our
business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer
Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the
rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various environmental laws and
regulations. While we have had a product safety program in place for many years focused heavily on
children’s products, we have reinforced our product safety team and technological capabilities to
ensure that we are fully in compliance with the new Consumer Products Safety Improvement Act. Our
international businesses are subject to similar laws and regulations in the countries in which they
operate. Our operations also are subject to various international trade agreements and
regulations. See “— Trade Regulation.” While we believe that we are in compliance in all
material respects with all applicable governmental regulations, current governmental regulations
may change or become more stringent or unforeseen events may occur, any of which could have a
material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.





Employees

As of January 1, 2011, we had approximately 55,500 employees, approximately 8,400 of whom were
located in the United States. Of the employees located in the United States, approximately 2,400
were full or part-time employees in our stores within our direct to consumer channel. As of
January 1, 2011, in the United States, approximately 25 employees were covered by collective
bargaining agreements. Some of our international employees were also covered by collective
bargaining agreements. We believe our relationships with our employees are good.



