Item 1.Business

We are a consumer goods company with a portfolio of leading apparel brands, includingHanes,
Champion, Playtex, Bali, L’eggs, Just My Size, barely there,Wonderbra, Stedman, Outer Banks,
Zorba, RinbrosandDuofold.We design, manufacture, source and sell a broad range of apparel
essentials such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, casualwear,
activewear, socks and hosiery.

The apparel essentials sector of the apparel industry is characterized by frequently
replenished items, such as T-shirts, bras, panties, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, socks and
hosiery. Growth and sales in the apparel essentials sector are not primarily driven by fashion, in
contrast to other areas of the broader apparel industry. We focus on the core attributes of
comfort, fit and value, while remaining current with regard to consumer trends. The majority of our
core styles continue from year to year, with variations only in color, fabric or design details.
Some products, however, such as intimate apparel, activewear and sheer hosiery, do have an emphasis
on style and innovation. We continue to invest in our largest and strongest brands to achieve our
long-term growth goals. In addition to designing and marketing apparel essentials, we have a long
history of operating a global supply chain that incorporates a mix of self-manufacturing,
third-party contractors and third-party sourcing.

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31 and, until it was changed during
2006, ended on the Saturday closest to June 30. All references to “2009”, “2008” and “2007” relate
to the 52 week fiscal year ended on January 2, 2010, the 53 week fiscal year ended on January 3,
2009 and the 52 week fiscal year ended on December 29, 2007, respectively.

During the fourth quarter of 2009, as we sought to drive more outerwear sales through our retail
operations by expanding ourHanesandChampionofferings, we made the decision to change our
internal organizational structure so that our retail operations, previously included in our
Innerwear segment, would be a separate “Direct to Consumer” segment. As a result, our operations
are managed and reported in six operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for
financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Outerwear, Hosiery, Direct to Consumer, International and
Other. Certain other insignificant changes between segments have been reflected in the segment disclosures to conform to the current organizational structure.
The following table summarizes our operating segments by category:





SegmentPrimary ProductsPrimary BrandsInnerwearIntimate apparel, such as bras,
panties and shapewearMen’s underwear and kids’ underwearSocksHanes, Playtex, Bali,
barelythere, Just My
Size, WonderbraHanes, Polo Ralph Lauren*Hanes, ChampionOuterwearActivewear, such as performanceChampion, DuofoldT-shirts and shorts, fleece, sports
bras and thermalsCasualwear, such as T-shirts, fleece and sport shirtsHanes, Just My Size,Outer Banks, Champion, Hanes Beefy-THosieryHosieryL’eggs, Hanes, Donna Karan,* DKNY,*Just My SizeDirect to ConsumerActivewear, men’s underwear,
kids’ underwear, intimate apparel, socks, hosiery and casualwearBali, Hanes, Playtex, Champion,
barely there, L’eggs, Just My SizeInternationalActivewear, men’s underwear,
kids’ underwear, intimate apparel, socks, hosiery and casualwearHanes, Champion, Wonderbra,**
Playtex,** Stedman, Zorba, Rinbros, Kendall,* Sol y Oro, Bali, Ritmo,OtherNonfinished products, primarily yarnNot applicable



*Brand used under a license agreement.**As a result of the February 2006 sale of the European branded apparel business of Sara Lee
Corporation, or “Sara Lee,” we are not permitted to sell this brand in the member states of
the European Union, or the “EU,” several other European countries and South Africa.

Our brands have a strong heritage in the apparel essentials industry. According to The NPD
Group/Consumer Tracking Service, or “NPD,” our brands hold either the number one or number two U.S.
market position by sales value in most product categories in which we compete, for the 12 month
period ended December 31, 2009. In 2009,Haneswas number one for the sixth consecutive year as the
most preferred men’s apparel brand, women’s intimate apparel brand and children’s apparel brand of
consumers in Retailing Today magazine’s “Top Brands Study.” Additionally, we had five of the top
ten intimate apparel brands preferred by consumers in the Retailing Today study —Hanes, Playtex,
Bali, Just My SizeandL’eggs. In 2008, the most recent year in which the survey was conducted,Haneswas number one for the fifth consecutive year on the Women’s Wear Daily “Top 100 Brands
Survey” for apparel and accessory brands that women know best.

Our products are sold through multiple distribution channels. During 2009, approximately 45%
of our net sales were to mass merchants in the United States, 16% were to national chains and department stores in the United States, 11%
were in our International segment, 10% were in our Direct to Consumer segment in the United States, and 18% were to
other retail channels  in the United States such as embellishers, specialty retailers and sporting goods stores. We have
strong, long-term relationships with our top customers, including relationships of more than ten
years with each of our top ten customers. The size and operational scale of the high-volume
retailers with which we do business require extensive category and product knowledge and
specialized services regarding the quantity, quality and planning of product orders. We have
organized multifunctional customer management teams, which has allowed us to form strategic
long-term relationships with these customers and efficiently focus resources on category, product
and service expertise. We also have customer-specific programs such as theC9 by Championproducts
marketed and sold through Target stores and the recently expanded presence at Wal-Mart stores of
ourJust My Sizebrand.





Our ability to react to changing customer needs and industry trends is key to our success. Our
design, research and product development teams, in partnership with our marketing teams, drive our
efforts to bring innovations to market. We seek to leverage our insights into consumer demand in
the apparel essentials industry to develop new products within our existing lines and to modify our
existing core products in ways that make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs
and industry trends. Examples of our recent innovations include:

•Hanesdyed V-neck underwear T-shirts in black, gray and navy colors (2009).

•Champion360° Max Support sports bra that controls movement in all directions, scientifically
tested on athletes to deliver 360° support (2009).

•Playtex 18 HourSeamless Smoothing bra that features fused fabric to smooth sides and
back (2009).

•BaliNatural Uplift bras that feature advanced lift for the bust without adding size
(2009).

•HanesNo Ride Up panties, specially designed for a better fit that helps women stay
“wedgie-free” (2008).

•HanesLay Flat Collar T-shirts andHanesNo Ride Up boxer briefs, the brand’s latest
innovation in product comfort and fit (2008).

•Playtex 18 HourActive Lifestyle bra that features active styling with wickable fabric
(2008).

•Bali Concealersbras, with revolutionary concealing petals for complete modesty (2008).

•HanesConcealing Petals bras (2008).

•Hanes ComfortsoftT-shirt (2007).

•HanesAll Over Comfort bras (2007).

•Bali Passion for Comfortbras, designed to be the ultimate comfort bra, features a silky
smooth lining for a luxurious feel against the body (2007).

Our Brands

Our portfolio of leading brands is designed to address the needs and wants of various consumer
segments across a broad range of apparel essentials products. Each of our brands has a particular
consumer positioning that distinguishes it from its competitors and guides its advertising and
product development. We discuss some of our most important brands in more detail below.

Hanesis the largest and most widely recognized brand in our portfolio. In 2009,Haneswas
number one for the sixth consecutive year as the most preferred men’s apparel brand, women’s
intimate apparel brand and children’s apparel brand of consumers in Retailing Today magazine’s “Top
Brands Study.” In 2008, the most recent year the survey was conducted,Haneswas number one for the
fifth consecutive year on the Women’s Wear Daily “Top 100 Brands Survey” for apparel and accessory
brands that women know best. TheHanesbrand covers all of our product categories, including men’s
underwear, kids’ underwear, bras, panties, socks, T-shirts, fleece and sheer hosiery.





Hanesstands for outstanding comfort, style and value. According to Millward Brown Market
Research,Hanesis found in 85% of the U.S. households that have purchased men’s or women’s
casual clothing or underwear in the 12-month period ended December 31, 2009.

Championis our second-largest brand. Specializing in athletic and other performance apparel,
theChampionbrand is designed for everyday athletes. We believe thatChampion’s combination of
comfort, fit and style provides athletes with mobility, durability and up-to-date styles, all
product qualities that are important in the sale of athletic products. We also distributeC9 by
Championproducts exclusively through Target stores.

Playtex, the third-largest brand within our portfolio, offers a line of bras, panties and
shapewear, including products that offer solutions for hard to fit figures.Baliis the
fourth-largest brand within our portfolio.Balioffers a range of bras, panties and shapewear sold
in the department store channel. Our brand portfolio also includes the following well-known brands:L’eggs,Just My Size,barely there,Wonderbra,Outer BanksandDuofold.We entered into an
agreement with Wal-Mart in April 2009 that significantly expanded the presence of ourJust My Sizebrand. These brands serve to round out our product offerings, allowing us to give consumers a
variety of options to meet their diverse needs.

Our Segments

During the fourth quarter of 2009, as we sought to drive more outerwear sales through our retail
operations by expanding ourHanesandChampionofferings, we made the decision to change our
internal organizational structure so that our retail operations, previously included in our
Innerwear segment, would be a separate “Direct to Consumer” segment. As a result, our operations
are managed and reported in six operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for
financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Outerwear, Hosiery, Direct to Consumer, International and
Other. Certain other insignificant changes between segments have been reflected in the segment disclosures
to conform to the current organizational structure. These segments are organized principally by
product category, geographic location and distribution channel. Management of each segment is
responsible for the operations of these segments’ businesses but shares a common supply chain and
media and marketing platforms. For more information about our segments, see Note 20 to our
financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Innerwear

The Innerwear segment focuses on core apparel essentials, and consists of products such as
women’s intimate apparel, men’s underwear, kids’ underwear, and socks, marketed under well-known
brands that are trusted by consumers. We are an intimate apparel category leader in the United
States with ourHanes,Playtex,Bali,barely there,Just My SizeandWonderbrabrands. We are also
a leading manufacturer and marketer of men’s underwear and kids’ underwear under theHanesandPolo
Ralph Laurenbrand names. During 2009, net sales from our Innerwear segment were $1.8 billion,
representing approximately 47% of total net sales.

Outerwear

We are a leader in the casualwear and activewear markets through ourHanes,Champion,Just My
SizeandDuofoldbrands, where we offer products such as T-shirts and fleece. Our casualwear lines
offer a range of quality, comfortable clothing for men, women and children marketed under theHanesandJust My Sizebrands. TheJust My Sizebrand offers casual apparel designed exclusively to meet
the needs of plus-size women. In 2009, we entered into a multi-year agreement to provide a women’s
casualwear program with ourJust My Sizebrand at Wal-Mart stores. In addition to activewear for
men and women,Championprovides uniforms for athletic programs and includes an apparel program,C9
by Champion, at Target stores. We also license ourChampionname for collegiate apparel and
footwear. We also supply our T-shirts, sport shirts and fleece products, including brands such asHanes,Champion,Outer BanksandHanes Beefy-T, to customers, primarily wholesalers, who then
resell to screen printers and embellishers. During 2009, net sales from our Outerwear segment were
$1.1 billion, representing approximately 27% of total net sales.





Hosiery

We are the leading marketer of women’s sheer hosiery in the United States. We compete in the
hosiery market by striving to offer superior values and executing integrated marketing activities,
as well as focusing on the style of our hosiery products. We market hosiery products under ourL’eggs,HanesandJust My Sizebrands. During 2009, net sales from our Hosiery segment were $186
million, representing approximately 5% of total net sales. We expect the trend of declining hosiery
sales to continue consistent with the overall decline in the industry and with shifts in consumer
preferences.

Direct to Consumer

Our Direct to Consumer operations include our value-based (“outlet”) stores and Internet
operations which sell products from our portfolio of leading brands. We sell our branded products
directly to consumers through our outlet stores, as well as our Web sites operating under theHanes,One Hanes Place,Just My SizeandChampionnames. Our Internet operations are supported by
our catalogs. As of January 2, 2010 and January 3, 2009, we had 228 and 213 outlet stores,
respectively. During 2009, net sales from our Direct to Consumer segment were $370 million,
representing approximately 10% of total net sales.

International

International includes products that span across the Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery
reportable segments and are primarily marketed under theHanes,Champion,Wonderbra,Playtex,Stedman,Zorba,Rinbros,Kendall, Sol y Oro,BaliandRitmobrands. During 2009, net sales from our
International segment were $438 million, representing approximately 11% of total net sales and
included sales in Latin America, Asia, Canada, Europe and South America. Our largest international
markets are Canada, Japan, Mexico, Europe and Brazil, and we also have sales offices in India and
China.

Other

Our Other segment primarily consists of sales of yarn to third parties in the United States
and Latin America that maintain asset utilization at certain manufacturing facilities and are
intended to generate approximate break even margins. During 2009, net sales from our Other segment
were $13 million, representing less than 1% of total net sales. In October 2009, we completed the
sale of our yarn operations as a result of which we ceased making our own yarn and now source all
of our yarn requirements from large-scale yarn suppliers. As a result of the sale of our yarn
operations we will no longer have net sales in our Other segment in the future.

Design, Research and Product Development

At the core of our design, research and product development capabilities is a team of
approximately 300 professionals. We have combined our design, research and development teams into
an integrated group for all of our product categories. A facility located in Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, is the center of our research, technical design and product development efforts. We also
employ creative design and product development personnel in our design center in New York City. In
2009, 2008 and 2007, we spent approximately $46 million, $46 million and $45 million, respectively,
on design, research and product development, including the
development of new and improved products.

Customers

In 2009, approximately 89% of our net sales were to customers in the United States and
approximately 11% were to customers outside the United States. Domestically, almost 81% of our net
sales were wholesale sales to retailers, 11% were direct to consumers and 8% were wholesale sales
to third-party embellishers. We have well-established relationships with some of the largest
apparel retailers in the world. Our largest customers are Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., or “Wal-Mart,”
Target Corporation, or “Target,” and Kohl’s Corporation, or “Kohl’s,” accounting for 27%, 17% and
7%, respectively, of our total sales in 2009. As is common in the apparel essentials industry, we
generally do not have purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products.
However, all of our key customer relationships have been in place for
ten years or more. Wal-Mart, Target and Kohl’s are our only customers with sales that exceed 10% of
any individual segment’s sales. In
our Innerwear segment, Wal-Mart accounted for 40% of sales, Target
accounted for 16% of sales and Kohl’s accounted for 12% of sales
during 2009. In our Outerwear segment, Target accounted for





34% of sales and Wal-Mart accounted for 19% of sales during 2009. In our Hosiery segment,
Wal-Mart accounted for 27% of sales during 2009 and Target accounted for 10% of sales during 2009.

Due to their size and operational scale, high-volume retailers such as Wal-Mart and Target
require extensive category and product knowledge and specialized services regarding the quantity,
quality and timing of product orders. We have organized multifunctional customer management teams,
which has allowed us to form strategic long-term relationships with these customers and efficiently
focus resources on category, product and service expertise. Smaller regional customers attracted to
our leading brands and quality products also represent an important component of our distribution.
Our organizational model provides for an efficient use of resources that delivers a high level of
category and channel expertise and services to these customers.

Sales
to the mass merchant channel in the United States accounted for approximately 45% of our net sales in 2009.
We sell all of our product categories in this channel primarily under ourHanes,Just My SizeandPlaytexbrands. Mass merchants feature high-volume, low-cost sales of basic apparel items along
with a diverse variety of consumer goods products, such as grocery and drug products and other hard
lines, and are characterized by large retailers, such as Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart, which accounted for
approximately 27% of our net sales in 2009, is our largest mass merchant customer.

Sales to the
national chains and department stores channel in the United States accounted for approximately 16% of
our net sales in 2009. These retailers target a higher-income consumer than mass merchants, focus
more of their sales on apparel items rather than other consumer goods such as grocery and drug
products, and are characterized by large retailers such as Kohl’s, JC Penney Company, Inc. and
Sears Holdings Corporation. We sell all of our product categories in this channel. Traditional
department stores target higher-income consumers and carry more high-end, fashion conscious
products than national chains or mass merchants and tend to operate in higher-income areas and
commercial centers. Traditional department stores are characterized by large retailers such as
Macy’s and Dillard’s, Inc. We sell products in our intimate apparel, hosiery and underwear
categories through department stores.

Sales
in our Direct to Consumer segment in the United States accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in
2009. We sell our branded products directly to consumers through our 228 outlet stores, as well as
our Web sites operating under theHanes,One Hanes Place,Just My SizeandChampionnames. Our
outlet stores are value-based, offering the consumer a savings of 25% to 40% off suggested retail
prices, and sell first-quality, excess, post-season, obsolete and slightly imperfect products. Our
Web sites, supported by our catalogs, address the growing direct to consumer channel that operates
in today’s 24/7 retail environment, and we have an active database of approximately four million
consumers receiving our catalogs and emails. Our Web sites continue to experience growth as more
consumers embrace this retail shopping channel.

Sales in our International segment represented approximately 11% of our net sales in 2009, and
included sales in Latin America, Asia, Canada, Europe and South America. Our largest international
markets are Canada, Japan, Mexico, Europe and Brazil, and we also have sales offices in India and
China. We operate in several locations in Latin America including Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and
Central America. From an export business perspective, we use distributors to service customers in
the Middle East and Asia, and have a limited presence in Latin America. The brands that are the
primary focus of the export business includeHanesandChampionsocks,Championactivewear,Hanesunderwear andBali,Playtex,Wonderbraandbarely thereintimate apparel. As discussed below under
“Intellectual Property,” we are not permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded products in the
member states of the EU, several other European countries, and South Africa. For more information about our sales on a geographic basis, see Note 21 to our financial statements.

Sales in other channels in the United States represented approximately 18% of our net sales in 2009. We sell
T-shirts, golf and sport shirts and fleece sweatshirts to third-party embellishers primarily under
ourHanes,Hanes Beefy-TandOuter Banksbrands. Sales to third-party embellishers accounted for
approximately 7% of our net sales in 2009. We also sell a significant range of our underwear,
activewear and socks products under theChampionbrand to wholesale clubs, such as Costco, and
sporting goods stores, such as The Sports Authority, Inc. We sell primarily legwear and underwear
products under theHanesandL’eggsbrands to food, drug and variety stores. We sell products that
span across our Innerwear, Outerwear and Hosiery segments to the U.S. military for sale to
servicemen and servicewomen.





Inventory

Seasonality and Other Factors

Our operating results are subject to some variability due to seasonality and other factors.
Generally, our diverse range of product offerings helps mitigate the impact of seasonal changes in
demand for certain items. Sales are typically higher in the last two quarters (July to December) of
each fiscal year. Socks, hosiery and fleece products generally have higher sales during this period
as a result of cooler weather, back-to-school shopping and holidays. Sales levels in any period are
also impacted by customers’ decisions to increase or decrease their inventory levels in response to
anticipated consumer demand. Our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change
the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us. For example, we have experienced a shift in
timing by our largest retail customers of back-to-school programs between June and July the last
two years. Our results of operations are also impacted by fluctuations and volatility in the price
of cotton and oil-related materials and the timing of actual spending for our media, advertising
and promotion expenses. Media, advertising and promotion expenses may vary from period to period
during a fiscal year depending on the timing of our advertising campaigns for retail selling
seasons and product introductions.

Marketing

Our strategy is to bring consumer-driven innovation to market in a compelling way. Our
approach is to build targeted, effective multimedia advertising and marketing campaigns to increase
awareness of our key brands. Driving growth platforms across categories is a major element of our
strategy as it enables us to meet key consumer needs and leverage advertising dollars. We believe
that the strength of our consumer insights, our distinctive brand propositions and our focus on
integrated marketing give us a competitive advantage in the fragmented apparel marketplace.

In 2009, we launched a number of new advertising and marketing initiatives:

•We launched a new television advertising campaign in support ofHanesComfort Fit socks
for the family.

•We announced that ourChampionandDuofoldbrands have partnered with accomplished
international mountaineer and motivational speaker Jamie Clarke to lead Expedition
Hanesbrands, a Mount Everest expedition in 2010 designed to drive brand awareness and
showcase our research and development innovation and textile science leadership.

•In connection with our Expedition Hanesbrands initiative,Championlaunched a new
“What’s Your Everest” marketing campaign and online community to support people in reaching
their personal aspirations and goals.







•Hanesbecame the Official Apparel Sponsor of Passionately Pink for the Cure, a
fund-raising program created by Susan G. Komen for the Cure that inspires breast cancer
advocacy and honors those affected by the disease.Hanesalso offers a special “pink
collection” of panties, bras, socks and graphic tees, and has created a campaign Web site,
www.hanespink.com, that features interactive content to inspire people to make a difference
in the breast cancer support community.

•Championwas selected by US Lacrosse, the sport’s national governing body, as the
“Official Performance Apparel of US Lacrosse” andChampionhas the right to manufacture
apparel with the US Lacrosse logo that will be sold to participating teams. In addition to
the apparel partnership, the 2010 US Lacrosse National Convention, the largest
lacrosse-specific educational and networking opportunity in the country, will be presented
byChampion.

We also continued some of our existing advertising and marketing initiatives:

•We continued our men’s underwear advertising featuring Michael Jordan, in support ofHanesLay Flat Collar T-shirts and No Ride Up boxer briefs.

•We continued our television advertising featuring Sarah Chalke in another “Look Who”
advertising campaign in support of ourHanesNo Ride Up panties.

•We continued our alliance with The Walt Disney Company by opening Disney Design-a-Tee
presented byHanes, an innovative next-generation store for apparel souvenirs at the Walt
Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida, an interactive T-shirt design and printing store
that enables Disney guests to enhance their magical Disney experience with a personalized
custom-designedHanesT-shirt printed while they wait.

•We continued our “How You Play” national advertising campaign forChampionthat we
launched in 2007. The campaign includes print, out-of-home and online components and is
designed to capture the everyday moments of fun and sport in a series of cool and hip
lifestyle images.

•We continued the “Live Beautifully” campaign for ourBalibrand, launched in the Spring
of 2007. The print, television and online advertising campaign featuresBalibras and
panties from itsPassion for Comfort,Seductive CurvesandCotton Creationslines.

•We continued our innovative and expressive advertising and marketing campaign called
“Girl Talk,” launched in September 2007, in which confident, everyday women talk about
their breasts, in support of ourPlaytex 18 HourandPlaytex Secretsproduct lines.

Distribution

As of January 2, 2010, we distributed our products for the U.S. market from a total of 19
distribution centers. These facilities include 17 facilities located in the United States and two
facilities located outside the United States in regions where we manufacture our products. We
internally manage and operate 13 of these facilities, and we use third-party logistics providers
who operate the other six facilities on our behalf. International distribution operations use a
combination of third-party logistics providers, as well as owned and operated distribution
operations, to distribute goods to our various international markets.

We have reduced the number of distribution centers from the 48 that we maintained at the time
of the spin off to 33 as of January 2, 2010. The consolidation of our distribution network is
still in process but will not result in any substantial charges in future periods. The
distribution network consolidation involves the implementation of new warehouse management systems
and technology, and opening of new distribution centers and new third-party logistics providers to
replace parts of our legacy distribution network. In January 2009, we began shipping products from
a new 1.3 million square foot distribution center in Perris, California.





Manufacturing and Sourcing

During 2009, approximately 70% of our finished goods sold were manufactured through a
combination of facilities we own and operate and facilities owned and operated by third-party
contractors who perform some of the steps in the manufacturing process for us, such as cutting
and/or sewing. We sourced the remainder of our finished goods from third-party manufacturers who
supply us with finished products based on our designs. We believe that our balanced approach to
product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and sourced manufacturing
located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces
product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Hanesbrands

The manufacturing process for the finished goods that we manufacture begins with raw materials
we obtain from suppliers. The principal raw materials in our product categories are cotton and
synthetics. Our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating
cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other factors, weather, consumer demand, speculation on
the commodities market and the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer
versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our
control. We employ a dollar cost averaging
strategy by entering into hedging contracts on cotton designed to protect us
from severe market fluctuations in the wholesale prices of cotton. In addition to cotton yarn and
cotton-based textiles, we use thread, narrow elastic and trim for product identification, buttons,
zippers, snaps and lace.

Fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices may also influence the prices of items used in
our business, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester yarn and foam. Alternate sources of these
materials and services are readily available. Cotton and synthetic materials are typically spun
into yarn, which is then knitted into cotton, synthetic and blended fabrics. Although historically
we have spun a significant portion of the yarn and knit a significant portion of the fabrics we use
in our owned and operated facilities, in October 2009, we completed the sale of our yarn operations
as a result of which we ceased making our own yarn and now source all of our yarn requirements from
large-scale yarn suppliers. To a lesser extent, we purchase fabric from several domestic and
international suppliers in conjunction with scheduled production. These fabrics are cut and sewn
into finished products, either by us or by third-party contractors. Most of our cutting and sewing
operations are strategically located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin.

Rising fuel, energy and utility costs may have a significant impact on our manufacturing
costs. These costs may fluctuate due to a number of factors outside our control, including
government policy and regulation, foreign exchange rates and weather conditions.

Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Third Parties

In addition to our manufacturing capabilities, we also source finished goods we design from
third-party





manufacturers, also referred to as “turnkey products.” Many of these turnkey products are
sourced from international suppliers by our strategic sourcing hubs in Hong Kong and other
locations in Asia.

All contracted and sourced manufacturing must meet our high quality standards. Further, all
contractors and third-party manufacturers must be preaudited and adhere to our strict supplier and
business practices guidelines. These requirements provide strict standards covering hours of work,
age of workers, health and safety conditions and conformity with local laws and Hanesbrands’
standards. Each new supplier must be inspected and agree to comprehensive compliance terms prior to
performance of any production on our behalf. We audit compliance with these standards and maintain
strict compliance performance records. In addition to our audit procedures, we require certain of
our suppliers to be Worldwide Responsible Apparel Production, or “WRAP,” certified. WRAP is a
recognized apparel certification program that independently monitors and certifies compliance with
certain specified manufacturing standards that are intended to ensure that a given factory produces
sewn goods under lawful, humane, and ethical conditions. WRAP uses third-party, independent
certification firms and requires factory-by-factory certification.

Trade Regulation

We are exposed to certain risks of doing business outside of the United States. We import
goods from company-owned facilities in Asia, Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Mexico, and
from suppliers in those areas and in Europe, South America, Africa and the Middle East. These
import transactions are subject to customs, trade and other laws and regulations governing their
entry into the United States and to tariffs applicable to such merchandise.

In addition, much of the merchandise we import is subject to duty free entry into the United
States under various trade preferences and/or free trade agreements provided the goods meet certain
criteria and characteristics. Compliance with these specific requirements as well as all other
requirements is reviewed periodically by the United States Customs and Border Control and other
governmental agencies.

Finally, imported apparel merchandise may be subject to various restrictive trade actions
initiated by the United States government, domestic industry, labor or other parties under various
U.S. laws. Such actions could result in the U.S. government imposing quotas or additional tariffs
against apparel under special safeguard actions applicable to China, other safeguard actions
applicable to any country, or antidumping or countervailing duties applicable to specific products
from specific countries. Currently there are no such actions, additional, special or safeguard
duties or quotas imposed against products which we import. Our management evaluates the possible
impact of these and similar actions on our ability to import products from China and other
countries. If such safeguards or duties were to be imposed, we do not expect that these restraints
would have a material impact on us.

Moreover, our management monitors new developments and risks relating to duties, tariffs and
quotas. Changes in these areas have the potential to harm or, in some cases, benefit our business.
In response to the changing import environment management has chosen to continue its balanced
approach to manufacturing and sourcing. We attempt to limit our sourcing exposure through
geographic diversification with a mix of company-owned and contracted production, as well as shifts
of production among countries and contractors. We will continue to manage our supply chain from a
global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global production environment.

We also monitor a number of international security risks. We are a member of the Customs-Trade
Partnership Against Terrorism, or “C-TPAT,” a partnership between the government and private sector
initiated after the events of September 11, 2001 to improve supply chain and border security.
C-TPAT partners work with U.S. Customs and Border Protection to protect their supply chains from
concealment of terrorist weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. In exchange, U.S. Customs
and Border Protection provides reduced inspections at the port of arrival and expedited processing
at the border.





Competition

The apparel essentials market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Competition
generally is based upon price, brand name recognition, product quality, selection, service and
purchasing convenience. Our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and
foreign manufacturers. Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., competes
with us across most of our segments through its own offerings and those of its Russell Corporation
and Vanity Fair Intimates offerings. Other competitors in our
Innerwear segment include Limited Brands, Inc.’s Victoria’s
Secret brand, Jockey International, Inc., Warnaco
Group Inc. and Maidenform Brands, Inc. Other competitors in our Outerwear
segment include various private label and controlled brands sold by
many of our customers,
Gildan Activewear, Inc. and Gap Inc. We also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business
segments, including our International segment. Additionally, department stores and other retailers,
including many of our customers, market and sell apparel essentials products under private labels
that compete directly with our brands.

Our competitive strengths include our strong brands with leading market positions, our
high-volume, core essentials focus, our significant scale of operations, our global supply chain
and our strong customer relationships.

•Strong Brands with Leading Market Positions.According to NPD, our brands hold either
the number one or number two U.S. market position by sales value in most product categories
in which we compete, for the 12 month period ended December 31, 2009. According to NPD,
our largest brand,Hanes, is the top-selling apparel brand in the United States by units
sold, for the 12 month period ended December 31, 2009.

•High-Volume, Core Essentials Focus.We sell high-volume, frequently replenished apparel
essentials. The majority of our core styles continue from year to year, with variations
only in color, fabric or design details, and are frequently replenished by consumers. We
believe that our status as a high-volume seller of core apparel essentials creates a more
stable and predictable revenue base and reduces our exposure to dramatic fashion shifts
often observed in the general apparel industry.

•Significant Scale of Operations.According to NPD, we are the largest seller of apparel
essentials in the United States as measured by units sold for the 12 month period ended
December 31, 2009. Most of our products are sold to large retailers that have high-volume
demands. We believe that we are able to leverage our significant scale of operations to
provide us with greater manufacturing efficiencies, purchasing power and product design,
marketing and customer management resources than our smaller competitors.

•Global Supply Chain.We have restructured our supply chain over the past three years to
create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to
balance our production capability between the Western Hemisphere and Asia. With our global
supply chain infrastructure substantially in place, we are now focused on optimizing our
supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and
reduce costs.

•Strong Customer Relationships.We sell our products primarily through large,
high-volume retailers, including mass merchants, department stores and national chains. We
have strong, long-term relationships with our top customers, including relationships of
more than ten years with each of our top ten customers. We have aligned significant parts
of our organization with corresponding parts of our customers’ organizations. We also have
entered into customer-specific programs such as theC9 by Championproducts marketed and
sold through Target stores and the recently expanded presence at Wal-Mart of ourJust My
Sizebrand.

Intellectual Property

Overview

We market our products under hundreds of trademarks and service marks in the United States and
other countries around the world, the most widely recognized of which areHanes, Champion, C9 by
Champion, Playtex, Bali, L’eggs, Just My Size, barely there,Wonderbra, Stedman, Outer Banks,
Zorba, RinbrosandDuofold.Some of our products are sold under trademarks that have been licensed
from third parties, such asPolo Ralph Laurenmen’s underwear, and we also hold licenses from
various toy and media companies that give us the right to use certain of





their proprietary characters, names and trademarks.

Champion

Playtex

Playtex

Playtex

Playtex

Wonderbra

Playtex

Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally remain valid as long as they are
in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Most of the trademarks in our portfolio,
including our core brands, are covered by trademark registrations in the countries of the world in
which we do business, with registration periods generally ranging between seven and 10 years
depending on the country. Trademark registrations can be renewed indefinitely as long as the
trademarks are in use. We have an active program designed to ensure that our trademarks are
registered, renewed, protected and maintained. We plan to continue to use all of our core
trademarks and plan to renew the registrations for such trademarks for as long as we continue to
use them. Most of our copyrights are unregistered, although we have a sizable portfolio of
copyrighted lace designs that are the subject of a number of registrations at the U.S. Copyright
Office.

We place high importance on product innovation and design, and a number of these innovations
and designs are the subject of patents. However, we do not regard any segment of our business as
being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own proprietary
trade secrets, technology, and know how that we have not patented.

Shared Trademark Relationship with Sun Capital

Wonderbra

Playtex

Wonderbra

Playtex

Wonderbra

Playtex

DIM

UNNO

DIM

DIM

UNNO

DIM

UNNO

Licensing Relationship with Tupperware Corporation

In December 2005, Sara Lee sold its direct selling business, which markets cosmetics, skin
care products, toiletries and clothing in 18 countries, to Tupperware Corporation, or “Tupperware.”
In connection with the sale, Dart Industries Inc., or “Dart,” an affiliate of Tupperware, received
a three-year exclusive license agreement, which has been extended to March 31, 2010, to use theC
Logo,Champion U.S.A.,Wonderbra,W by Wonderbra,The One and Only Wonderbra,Playtex,Just My SizeandHanestrademarks for the manufacture and sale, under the applicable brands, of certain men’s
and women’s apparel in the Philippines, including underwear, socks, sportswear





products, bras, panties and girdles. Dart also received a ten-year, royalty-free, exclusive
license to use theGirls’ Attitudestrademark for the manufacture and sale of certain toiletries,
cosmetics, intimate apparel, underwear, sportswear, watches, bags and towels in the Philippines.
The rights and obligations under these agreements were assigned to us as part of the spin off.

In connection with the sale of Sara Lee’s direct selling business, Tupperware also signed two
five-year distributorship agreements providing Tupperware with the right to distribute and sell,
through door-to-door and similar channels,Playtex,Champion,Rinbros,Aire,Wonderbra,HanesandTeens by Hanesapparel items in Mexico that we have discontinued and/or determined to be obsolete.
The agreements also provide Tupperware with the exclusive right for five years to distribute and
sell through such channels such apparel items sold by us in the ordinary course of business. The
agreements also grant a limited right to use such trademarks solely in connection with the
distribution and sale of those products in Mexico.

Under the terms of the agreements, we reserve the right to apply for, prosecute and maintain
trademark registrations in Mexico for those products covered by the distributorship agreement. The
rights and obligations under these agreements were assigned to us as part of the spin off.

Corporate Social Responsibility

We have a formal corporate social responsibility (“CSR”) program that consists of five core
initiatives: a global business practices ethics program for all employees worldwide; a facility
compliance program that seeks to ensure company and supplier plants meet our labor and social
compliance standards; a product safety program; a global environmental management system that seeks
to reduce the environmental impact of our operations; and a commitment to corporate philanthropy
which seeks to meet the “fundamental needs” of the communities in which we live and work. We
employ over 15 full-time CSR personnel across the world to manage our program.

In February 2008, we joined the Fair Labor Association and are currently undergoing the final
stages of the Fair Labor Association’s two-year implementation process for accreditation of our
internal global social compliance program. The Fair Labor Association works with industry, civil
society organizations and colleges and universities to protect workers’ rights and improve working
conditions in factories around the world. Participating companies in the Fair Labor Association
are required to fulfill 10 company obligations, including conducting internal monitoring of
facilities, submitting to independent monitoring audits and verification, and managing and
reporting information on their compliance efforts. The Fair Labor Association conducts unannounced
independent external monitoring audits of a sample of a participating company’s plants and
suppliers and publishes the results of those audits for the public to review.

We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas footprint and our
contribution to global climate change. We have implemented a
comprehensive corporate energy policy. We manage this commitment by
reducing our energy consumption as much as possible, exploring better
supply chain management to reduce our use of energy-intensive
transportation, adopting cleaner technologies where possible and
actively tracking our energy metrics. We have partnered closely with
Energy Star, a joint program of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy that helps save money and
protect the environment through energy efficient products and
practices.

We also incorporate Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, or “LEED”-based practices
into many remodeling and new construction projects for our facilities around the world. We earned
the U.S. Green Building Council’s sustainability certification for our Bentonville, Arkansas sales
office. We are also currently working on LEED certification of manufacturing facilities in El
Salvador, Vietnam and China and our distribution center in Perris, California. Sustainable
features of the Perris facility include reduction of energy usage through extensive use of natural
skylighting, motion-detection lighting, a design that does not require heating or air conditioning
for a comfortable working environment, reduction of water usage compared with typical warehouses of
its size through low-water bathroom fixtures and low-water landscaping, innovative site grading
techniques and use of locally produced concrete and steel and many other LEED concepts such as use
of paints, carpets and other materials with low volatile organic compound content, an
organic-focused pest control program that minimizes chemical pesticide use, location near public
transportation to reduce the parking lot size and reliance on automobile transportation, preferred
parking for low-emission and low-energy vehicles, and on-site bicycle storage and shower and
changing room facilities.

Our corporate philanthropic efforts are focused on meeting the “fundamental needs” of the
communities in which we live and work. Last year, we were again the largest corporate giver to our
local United Way in Forsyth County, North Carolina, with our corporate and employee gifts totaling
nearly $2 million. While we do not have company-owned operations in Haiti, we donated over $2.2
million in apparel to the relief effort, made a $25,000 cash donation to CARE, and donated food and
other staples directly to the employees of third-party contractors we
use in Port-au-Prince in early 2010.





Environmental Matters

Governmental Regulation

Finally, we are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations that could
affect our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the
Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification
Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various environmental
laws and regulations. While we have had a product safety program in place for many years focused
heavily on children’s products, we have reinforced our product safety team and technological
capabilities to ensure that we are fully in compliance with the new Consumer Products Safety
Improvement Act. Our international businesses are subject to similar laws and regulations in the
countries in which they operate. Our operations also are subject to various international trade
agreements and regulations. See “— Trade Regulation.” While we believe that we are in compliance
in all material respects with all applicable governmental regulations, current governmental
regulations may change or become more stringent or unforeseen events may occur, any of which could
have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

Employees

As of January 2, 2010, we had approximately 47,400 employees, approximately 7,800 of whom were
located in the United States. Of the employees located in the United States, approximately 2,400
were full or part-time employees in our stores within our direct to consumer channel. As of January
2, 2010, in the United States, approximately 25 employees were covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Some of our international employees were also covered by collective bargaining
agreements. We believe our relationships with our employees are good.



