ITEM 1.    Business

Unless otherwise noted in this report, any description of "we", "us" or "our" includes Molson Coors Brewing Company ("MCBC" or the
"Company"), principally a holding company, and its operating subsidiaries: Coors Brewing Company ("CBC"), operating in the United States ("U.S.") until June 30, 2008 when MCBC and
SABMiller plc ("SABMiller") combined the U.S. and Puerto Rico operations of their respective subsidiaries, CBC and Miller Brewing Company ("Miller"), and the results and financial position of
U.S. operations, which had historically comprised substantially all of our U.S. reporting segment were, in all material respects, deconsolidated from MCBC prospectively upon formation of
MillerCoors LLC ("MillerCoors"); Molson Coors Brewing Company (UK) Limited ("MCBC-UK"), operating in the United Kingdom ("U.K.");
Molson Coors Canada ("MCC"), operating in Canada; and our other entities. Any reference to "Coors" means the Adolph Coors Company prior to the 2005 merger with Molson Inc. (the "Merger"). Any
reference to Molson Inc. or Molson means MCC prior to the Merger. Any reference to "Molson Coors" means MCBC after the Merger.

Unless
otherwise indicated, information in this report is presented in U.S. dollars ("USD" or "$").

History

Molson was founded in 1786, and Coors was founded in 1873. Our commitment to producing the highest quality beers is a key part of our
heritage and remains so today. Our brands are designed to appeal to a wide range of consumer tastes, styles and price preferences. Our largest markets are Canada, the United States and the United
Kingdom.

Coors
was incorporated in June 1913 under the laws of the State of Colorado. In August 2003, Coors changed its state of incorporation to the State of Delaware. In February 2005 upon
completion of the Merger, Coors changed its name to Molson Coors Brewing Company.

Our Operating Segments

MCBC operates the following business segments: Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Molson Coors International ("MCI").
Our MCI results are reported with our Corporate group's results. A separate operating team manages each segment, and each segment manufactures, markets and sells beer and other beverage products.

See
Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 3 "Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
("Notes") for information relating to our segments and operations, including financial and geographic information. For certain risks attendant to our foreign operations, refer to
Part I—Item 1A Risk Factors and the discussions regarding our Canada and U.K. segments.

No
single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated or segmented sales in 2010, 2009, or 2008.

Our Products

We have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands, including signature brandsCoors Light, Molson
CanadianandCarling,which are positioned to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions.

Brands
sold in Canada includeCoors Light,Molson Canadian,Molson
Export, Molson Canadian 67, Molson Dry,Molson M, Rickard's Redand otherRickard'sbrands,Carling, Carling Black Label, Pilsner, Keystone Light, Creemore Springs, theGranville Islandbrands and a number of other regional brands.











We
also brew or distribute under license the following brands:Heineken, Amstel LightandMurphy'sunder
license from Heineken N.V. ("Heineken"),AsahiandAsahi Selectunder license Asahi
Breweries, Ltd.,Miller Lite,Miller Genuine Draft,Miller Chill,
Milwaukee's BestandMilwaukee's Best Dryunder license from SABMiller, andFoster'sunder license from Foster's Group Limited
("Fosters"). We are also party to a joint venture with Grupo Modelo S.A.B. de C.V. ("Modelo"),
which imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio, including theCorona, Coronita, Negra ModeloandPacificobrands, across all
Canadian provinces and territories.

MillerCoors
sells a wide variety of brands in the U.S. Its flagship premium light brands areCoors LightandMiller Lite. Brands in the domestic premium segment
includeCoors Banquet,Miller Genuine DraftandMGD 64. Brands in the domestic super premium segment
includeMiller ChillandSparks. Brands in the below premium segment includeMiller High
Life,Miller High Life Light, Keystone Light,Icehouse,Mickey's,Milwaukee's Best, Milwaukee's Best LightandOld English
800. Craft and import brands, marketed and sold through the newly-created Tenth and Blake Beer Company, include theBlue Moonbrands,Henry Weinhard's,George Killian's Irish Red, theLeinenkugel'sbrands,Peroni Nastro Azzurro,Pilsner
UrquellandGrolsch. Brands in the non-alcoholic segment includeCoors
Non-AlcoholicandSharp's. MillerCoors licenses the right to brew and sellGeorge Killian's
Irish Red. MCBC and SABMiller assigned the United States and Puerto Rican ownership rights to their legacy brands to MillerCoors, but retained all ownership of these brands
outside the United States and Puerto Rico.

Brands
sold in the U.K. include:Carling,C2,Coors
Light,Worthington's,White Shield, Caffrey's,Kasteel
Cru,andBlue Moon,as well as a number of smaller regional ale brands. We also sell theGrolschbrands through a joint venture
with Royal Grolsch N.V. and theCobrabrands through a
joint venture called Cobra Beer Partnership Ltd., and are the exclusive distributor for several brands which are sold under license, includingCorona, Coronita, Negra
Modelo,Pacfico, SinghaandMagners Draught Cider. Additionally, in order to be
able to provide a full line of beer and other beverages to our on-premise customers, we sell factored brands, including wines in our U.K. segment,
which are third party brands for which we provide distribution to retail, typically on a non-exclusive basis.

MCBC
also markets and sells several of its brands in various international markets. Brands unique to various international markets includeZima, Si'hai, Coors
Gold,andCoors Extra.

Canada Segment

We are Canada's second largest brewer by volume and North America's oldest beer company. We have an approximate 40% market share in
Canada. We brew, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of beer brands nationally. Our portfolio has leading brands in all major product and price segments. Our focus and investment is on key
owned brands, includingCoors Light, Molson Canadian, Molson Dry, Molson Export, Rickard's, Creemore Springs and Granville Islandand key strategic
distribution partnerships, including those with Heineken, Modelo and SABMiller.Coors Lightcurrently has a 14% market share and is the top selling beer
brand in Canada andCanadiancurrently has an 8% market share and is the third largest selling beer in Canada.

The
Canada segment also includes our partnership arrangements related to the distribution of beer in Ontario, Brewers' Retail Inc. ("BRI"), and in the Western provinces, Brewers'
Distributor Ltd. ("BDL"). BRI and BDL are currently accounted for under the equity method of accounting. BRI was consolidated in our financial statements until March 1,
2009, when it was deconsolidated. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4 "Investments" of the Notes for further discussion.

Sales and Distribution

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the beer industry, particularly with regard to the pricing, mark-up, container
management, sale, distribution, and advertising of beer. Distribution and











the
retail sale of alcohol products involves a wide range and varied degree of Canadian government control through their respective provincial liquor boards.

Province of Ontario

In Ontario, beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, at government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor
Control Board of Ontario, at approved agents of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, or at any bar, restaurant, or tavern licensed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to sell liquor for
on-premise consumption. We, together with certain other brewers, participate in the ownership of BRI in proportion to provincial market share relative to other brewers in the ownership
group. Brewers may deliver directly to BRI's outlets or may choose to use BRI's distribution centers to access retail stores in Ontario, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario system and licensed
establishments.

Province of Québec

In Québec, beer is distributed directly by each brewer or through independent agents. We are the agent for the licensed
brands we distribute. The brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise consumption. Québec retail sales for
off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores as well as government operated outlets.

Province of British Columbia

In British Columbia, the government's Liquor Distribution Branch controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all alcohol
products in the province. BDL which we co-own with a competitor, manages the distribution of our products throughout British Columbia. Consumers can purchase beer at any Liquor
Distribution Branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. Establishments licensed primarily for
on-premise liquor sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption.

Province of Alberta

In Alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a government sponsored
system in the case of U.S. sourced products. All sales of liquor in Alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and
restaurants. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Alberta.

Other Provinces

Our products are distributed in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan through local liquor boards. Manitoba and Saskatchewan also
have licensed private retailers. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. In the Maritime Provinces (other than Newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell
our products. Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavat manage distribution and sell through government liquor commissioners.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We select global suppliers in order to procure the highest quality materials and services at the lowest prices available. We also use
hedging instruments to mitigate the risk of volatility in certain commodities and foreign exchange markets.









We
source barley malt from two primary providers. Hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the U.S., Europe, and New Zealand. Other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced
from two main suppliers, both in North America. We do not foresee any significant risk of disruption in the supply of these agricultural products. Water used in the brewing process is from local
sources in the communities where our breweries operate. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate seven breweries, strategically located throughout Canada, which brew, bottle, package, market and distribute all owned and
certain licensed brands sold in and exported from Canada. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.

Packaging Materials

We single source glass bottles and aluminum cans and have a committed supply through 2011. Availability of glass bottles and aluminum
cans has not been an issue, and we do not expect any difficulties in accessing them in the future. The distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network for returnable
bottles and aluminum cans. The standard container for beer brewed in Canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle, which represents a significant majority of the approximately 56% of bottle volume sales in
Canada. Aluminum cans account for approximately 34% of volume sales in Canada. We sell approximately 10% of our beer volume in stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased every year,
and there is no long-term supply commitment. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. We do not foresee difficulties
in accessing these products in the near future.

Seasonality of Business

Consumption of beer in Canada is seasonal, with approximately 40% of industry sales volume occurring during the four months from May
through August.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

Industry and competitive information in this section and elsewhere in this report was compiled from various industry sources. While the
Company believes that these sources are reliable, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of data and estimates obtained from these sources.

2010 Canada Beer Industry Overview

The Canadian brewing industry is a mature market. It is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from
regional brewers, microbrewers and certain foreign brewers, as well as our main domestic competitor. These competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling
activities.

There
are three major beer price categories: above premium, which includes most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light sub-segment;
and value (below premium).

Since
2001, the premium beer category in Canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value categories. For each of the five years ended December 31, 2008, Canada
beer industry shipments annual average growth rate approximated 1%. While in 2009 and 2010, Canada beer industry shipments declined at a rate of less than 1%.









Our Competitive Position

Our brands compete with competitor beer brands and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive
position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories.

The
Canada brewing industry is comprised principally of two major brewers, MCBC and Anheuser-Busch InBev ("ABI"), whose combined market share is approximately 82% of beer sold in Canada.
The Ontario and Québec markets account for approximately 62% of the total beer market in Canada.

Regulation

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling, and pricing of beer (including the
establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production and sale of beer. In addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling,
quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes, consumption taxes, excise taxes, and in certain instances, custom duties on imported beer. In 2010, Canada excise
taxes totaled $617.4 million or approximately $69 per hectoliter sold. Further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and
certain foreign governments, especially with the United States, affect the Canadian beer industry.

United States Segment

Effective, July 1, 2008, MCBC and SABMiller formed MillerCoors to combine their respective U.S. and Puerto Rico operations. Each
party contributed its business and related operating assets and certain liabilities. The percentage interests in the profits of MillerCoors are 58% for SABMiller and 42% for MCBC. Voting interests are
shared 50%-50%, and MCBC and SABMiller have equal board representation within MillerCoors. MCBC and SABMiller have each agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in
MillerCoors for a period of five years, and certain rights of first refusal apply to any subsequent assignment. Our interest in MillerCoors is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

Prior
to the formation of MillerCoors, we produced, marketed, and sold the MCBC portfolio of brands in the United States and its territories, and, the U.S. operating segment included the
results of the Rocky Mountain Metal Container ("RMMC") and Rocky Mountain Bottle Container ("RMBC") joint ventures. Effective July 1, 2008, MCBC's equity investment in MillerCoors represents
our U.S. operating segment.

MillerCoors
is currently the second largest brewer by volume in the United States, with a market share of nearly 30%.

Sales and Distribution

In the United States, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors
and retailers. A national network of approximately 470 independent distributors purchases MillerCoors' products and distributes them to retail accounts. Approximately 19% is sold
on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 81% is sold off-premise in liquor stores, convenience stores, grocery stores, and other retail outlets. MillerCoors wholly
owns one distributorship, which handled less than 1% of their total volume in 2010.









Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

MillerCoors uses the highest quality ingredients to brew its products. MillerCoors malts a portion of its production requirements,
using barley purchased under yearly
contracts from independent farmers located in the western United States. Other barley, malt, and cereal grains are purchased from suppliers primarily in the United States. Hops are purchased from
suppliers in the United States, New Zealand and certain European countries. MillerCoors has water rights to provide for and to sustain brewing operations in case of a prolonged drought in the regions
for which they have operations. MillerCoors does not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

There are eight major breweries/packaging facilities which produce MillerCoors products. MillerCoors imports Molson brands from MCBC
andPeroni, Pilsner Urquell, Grolsch, and other import brands from SABMiller.

Packaging Materials

Over half of U.S. products sold were packaged in aluminum cans in 2010. A portion of aluminum cans were purchased from RMMC, a joint
venture with Ball Corporation ("Ball"), whose production facility is located near the brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition to the supply agreement with RMMC, MillerCoors has a commercial supply
agreement with Ball to purchase cans and ends in excess of what is supplied through RMMC; these agreements have various expiration dates. The RMMC joint venture agreement is scheduled to expire at the
end of 2011, MillerCoors does not anticipate any resultant supply interruptions. Approximately one-third of U.S. products in 2010 were packaged in glass bottles of which a portion was
provided by RMBC, a joint venture with Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc. The joint venture with Owens, as well as a supply agreement with Owens for the glass bottles required in excess of
RMBC's production, expires in 2015. The approximate remaining 10% of U.S. production volume sold in 2010 was packaged in half, quarter, and one-sixth barrel stainless steel kegs. A limited
number of kegs are purchased each year, and there is no long-term supply agreement. Crowns, labels, corrugate and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each
product. MillerCoors does not foresee difficulties in accessing packaging products in the future.

Contract Manufacturing

MillerCoors has an agreement to brew, package and ship products for Pabst Brewing Company through June 2020. Additionally, MillerCoors
produces beer under contract for our MCI business, SABMiller and Foster's LLC.

Seasonality of the Business

MillerCoors U.S. sales volumes are normally lowest in the winter months (first and fourth quarters) and highest in the summer months
(second and third quarters).

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

Industry and competitive information in this section and elsewhere in this report was compiled from various industry sources and
MillerCoors distributors. While the Company believes that these sources are reliable, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of data and estimates obtained from these sources.









2010 U.S. Beer Industry Overview

The beer industry in the United States is highly competitive, and the two largest brewers, of which MillerCoors is the smaller,
represent approximately 80% of the market. The intention of the creation of MillerCoors was to create a stronger U.S. brewer with the scale, operational efficiency and distribution platform to compete
more effectively in the U.S. market place. Growing or even maintaining market share has required significant investments in marketing. For the ten years ended December 31, 2008, the U.S. beer
industry shipments annual growth rate approximated 1%, compared with an estimated decline of less than 2% in 2010 and a decline of approximately 2% in 2009.

Our Competitive Position

The MillerCoors portfolio of beers competes with numerous above premium, premium, low-calorie, popular priced,
non-alcoholic, and imported brands. These competing brands are produced by international, national, regional and local brewers. MillerCoors competes most directly with ABI, but also
competes with imported and craft beer brands. MillerCoors is the nation's second- largest brewer, selling nearly 30% of the total 2010 U.S. brewing industry shipments (including exports and U.S.
shipments of imports). This compares to ABI's estimated market share of 50%.

MillerCoors'
products also compete with other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus their competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among
these other categories. Sales of wine and spirits have grown faster than sales of beer in recent years, resulting in a reduction in the beer segment's lead in the overall alcohol beverage market.

Regulation

In the U.S., the beer business is regulated by federal, state, and local governments. These regulations govern many parts of
MillerCoors' operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor relationships, sales, and environmental issues. To operate their facilities, they must obtain and
maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department; Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau; the U.S. Department of
Agriculture; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol regulatory agencies; and state and federal environmental agencies.

Governmental
entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. U.S. federal excise taxes on malt beverages currently approximate
$15 per hectoliter. State excise taxes are levied at varying rates with an average rate of approximately $2 per hectoliter in 2010.

United Kingdom Segment

We are the United Kingdom's second largest beer company with an approximate 19% share of the U.K. beer market, Western Europe's second
largest market. Sales are
primarily in England and Wales, withCarlingrepresenting more than 80% of our total U.K. segment beer volume. The U.K. segment consists of our
production and sale of the MCBC brands in the U.K., our joint venture arrangement for the production and distribution ofGrolschbrands in the U.K. and
the Republic of Ireland, our joint venture arrangement for the production and distribution of theCobrabrands in the U.K., factored brand sales
(beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us), and our Tradeteam joint venture arrangement with DHL (formerly Exel Logistics) for the distribution of products
throughout Great Britain. Additionally, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, we distribute the Modelo brands, includingCorona, pursuant to a
distribution agreement with Modelo.









Sales and Distribution

In the U.K., beer is generally distributed through a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers. Most of our
beer in the U.K. is sold directly to retailers. It is also common in the U.K. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies ("factored"
brands) to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). Approximately 32% of our U.K. segment net sales in 2010 represent factored brands. Factored brand sales are included in our net
sales and cost of goods, but are not included in our reported volumes.

Generally,
over the past three decades, volumes have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower
margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market.

On-Premise Channel

The on-premise channel accounted for approximately 60% of our U.K. sales volumes in 2010. The on-premise
channel has two sub-categories: multiple on-premise and independent on-premise. Multiple on-premise refers to those customers who own a number of pubs
and restaurants and independent on-premise refers to individual owner-operators of pubs and restaurants. In 2010, approximately 53% and 47% of our on-premise volume represents
multiple (including national wholesalers) and independent on-premise customers, respectively. In recent years, pricing competition in the on-premise channel has intensified as
the retail pub chains have consolidated. As a result, the larger pub chains have been able to negotiate lower beer prices from brewers.

In
the U.K., the installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we
own equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers. This includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and countermounts.

Similar
to other U.K. brewers, we utilize loans in securing supply relationships with customers in the on-premise market. Loans are normally granted at below-market rates of
interest, with the outlet purchasing beer at lower-than-average discount levels to compensate. We reclassify a portion of sales revenue to interest income to reflect the
economic substance of these loans. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 1 "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies" of the Notes for further discussion.

Off-Premise Channel

The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 40% of our U.K. sales volume in 2010. The off-premise
channel includes sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a small number
of super-store chains, placing increasing downward pressure on pricing.

Distribution

Distribution activities for both the on- and off-premise channels are conducted by Tradeteam, which operates a
system of satellite warehouses and a transportation fleet.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We use the highest quality water, barley and hops to brew our products. During 2010, we produced 100% of our required malt using
U.K.-sourced barley. Hops and adjunct starches used in the brewing











process
are purchased from agricultural sources in the U.K. and on the European continent. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate three breweries in the U.K which brew, bottle, package and distribute all owned brands sold in the U.K. See Item 2,
"Properties" for further detail. Product sold in Ireland is produced by contract brewers.

Packaging Materials

We used kegs and casks for approximately 54% of our U.K. products in 2010, reflecting a high percentage of product sold
on-premise. Approximately 39% of our U.K. products were packaged in steel cans with aluminum ends in 2010. All of our cans are purchased through a supply contract with Ball. Approximately
5% of our U.K. products are packaged in glass bottles purchased through supply contracts with third-party suppliers. The remaining 2% of our U.K. sales are shipped in bulk tanker for other brewers to
package, in kegs and casks. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from concentrated sources unique to each product. We do not foresee difficulties in accessing these or other
packaging materials in the foreseeable future.

Contract Manufacturing

We have a contract brewing and kegging agreement with Heineken for theFostersandKronenbourgbrands. We also have an agreement with Heineken whereby it will brew and package certain of our products for Ireland through December 2011.
In addition, we agreed to a multi-year agreement to contract brew ales for Carlsberg Group ("Carlsberg") beginning in 2011.

Seasonality of Business

In the U.K., the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major
televised sporting events. Peak selling seasons occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holidays.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

Industry and competitive information in this section and elsewhere in this report was compiled from various industry sources. While the
Company believes that these sources are reliable, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of data and estimates obtained from these sources.

2010 U.K. Beer Industry Overview

The beer market in 2010 declined by approximately 3%, with the On-Premise declining approximately 8% and the
Off-Premise increasing approximately 1%, impacted by poor summer weather and worsening economic conditions. A widening price differential between the on-premise (higher prices)
and the off-premise (lower prices) has tended to benefit off-premise sales. For each of the ten years ended December 31, 2007, U.K. beer industry shipments declined at
an average rate of between 1% and 2%, compared with declines of approximately 6%, 4%, and 3% in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively.

The
industry has also experienced a steady trend away from ales and toward lagers. Sales of lagers accounted for 75% of the U.K. market in 2010.









Our Competitive Position

Our brands compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits,
and ciders. With the exception of stout, where we do not have our own brand, our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories. Our strength in the growing lager category
withCarling,Grolsch,Coors Light, CoronaandCobrapositions us well to take advantage of the continuing trend toward lagers. Our portfolio has been strengthened by the introduction of a range of
imported and specialty beer brands, such asSingha, CobraandCorona.

Our
principal competitors are Heineken, ABI, and Carlsberg, with market shares of approximately 25%, 18%, and 14%, respectively, compared to our share of 19% (excluding factored brands).

Regulation

In the U.K., regulations apply to many parts of our operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging,
marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment, and data protection regulations. To operate our breweries and carry on business in the U.K., we must obtain and maintain
numerous permits and licenses from local Licensing Justices and governmental bodies, including Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs; the Office of Fair Trading; the Data Protection Commissioner and
the Environment Agency.

The
U.K. government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages at varying rates depending on the type of product and its alcohol content by volume. In 2010, we incurred approximately
$824 million in excise taxes on gross revenues of approximately $2.1 billion, or $93 per hectoliter.

MCI and Corporate

The objective of MCI is to grow and expand our business and brand portfolios in our non-core and developing markets. Our current
businesses in Asia, continental Europe, Mexico and the Caribbean (excluding Puerto Rico) are combined with our corporate business activities for reporting purposes. Corporate includes corporate
interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments.

Asia

The MCI Asia region is primarily comprised of businesses in China and Japan, with increasing focus in the Philippines and Vietnam
markets. The Japan business is focused on theZimaandCoors Lightbrands. Additionally, beginning in
January, 2011, our Japan business will sell theCoronabrands pursuant to an agreement with Modelo completed in November 2010. In September 2010, a
joint venture agreement was finalized in China with Hebei Si'hai Beer Company, giving MCBC a 51% share of the newly formed Molson Coors Si'hai Brewing (China) Co., Ltd. ("MC Si'hai"). In
addition to selling and marketing Si'hai brands, the MC-Si'hai will produceCoors Lightfor our Chinese business beginning
mid-2011. The results of MC Si'hai are consolidated into the MCBC financial statements.

Europe

Our business within continental Europe is focused on growingCarling, Coors Light and
Cobrawith a focus on developing our business in Spain. Products are brewed by and exported from our U.K. breweries and through a license agreement with Mahou San Miguel for
the Iberian peninsula.

Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and Other

Coors Lightis sold in Mexico through an exclusive licensing agreement with Heineken.
In 2010, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Moscow Brewing Company for manufacturing and distribution ofCoors Lightin Russia. In
the Caribbean and Central America, our products are











produced
under a brewing agreement with MillerCoors and are exported to and sold through agreements with independent distributors.

Corporate

Corporate includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments.
The majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, accounting, treasury, insurance and risk management. Corporate
also includes certain royalty income and administrative costs related to the management of intellectual property.

Other Information

Global Intellectual Property

We own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patent and design
registrations relating to beer dispensing systems, packaging, and certain other innovations. These patents have expiration dates through 2035. We are not reliant on royalties or other revenue from
third parties for our financial success. Therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and
ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. Such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation,
and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for
the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that
would not be material in any one year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and
estimable. However, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such
laws. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 20 "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes under the caption
"Environmental"for additional information regarding environmental matters.

Employees and Employee Relations

Canada

We have approximately 2,740 full-time employees in our Canada segment, of which 62% are represented by trade unions. We
maintain agreements with the various unions representing workers at each of our facilities. We believe that relations with our Canada employees are good.

United States

We have approximately 170 employees in our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado. We believe that relations with our U.S.
employees are good.

MillerCoors
has approximately 9,000 employees. Approximately 36% of its work force is represented by unions. We believe that MillerCoors' relations with its U.S. employees are good.









United Kingdom

We have approximately 2,400 employees in our U.K. segment. Approximately 23% of this total workforce is represented by trade unions,
primarily at our Burton-on-Trent and Tadcaster breweries. We believe that relations with our U.K. employees are good.

Molson Coors International

We have approximately 350 employees in our MCI business, primarily in Asia (China and Japan) and within our Denver headquarters
offices. We believe that relations with these employees are good.

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 3 "Segment Reporting" of the
Notes for discussion of sales, operating income, and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.

Available Information

Our internet website is http://www.molsoncoors.com. Through a direct link to our reports at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov, we
make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual
references only. The information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report.

All
of Molson Coors' directors and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and other senior financial officers, are bound by Molson Coors' Code of
Business Conduct, which complies with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the SEC to ensure that the business of Molson Coors is conducted in a legal and ethical manner. The Code of
Business Conduct covers all areas of professional conduct, including employment policies, conflicts of interest, fair dealing, and the protection of confidential information, as well as strict
adherence to all laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct is available on the Molson Coors website. Molson Coors endeavors to disclose
amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of the Code of Business Conduct for executive officers and directors on its website within four business days following the date of such amendment or
waiver.









Executive Officers

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers as of February 12, 2010:

NameAgePositionKrishnan Anand53President of Molson Coors InternationalPeter H. Coors64Chairman of the Board of the Company, Executive Director of Coors Brewing Company, and Chairman of the Board of MillerCoors LLCStewart Glendinning45Chief Financial Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCRalph P. Hargrow58Chief People Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCMark Hunter48President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors Brewing Company (UK) LimitedDavid Perkins57President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors CanadaPeter Swinburn58President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCGregory L. Wade62Chief Supply Chain OfficerSamuel D. Walker52Chief Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and Managing Director of MillerCoors LLC

