ITEM 1.    Business

Unless otherwise noted in this report, any description of "we", "us" or "our" includes Molson Coors Brewing Company ("MCBC" or the "Company"), principally a holding company, and its subsidiaries: Molson Coors Canada ("MCC"), operating in Canada; Coors Brewing Company ("CBC"), operating in the United States ("U.S.") until June 30, 2008 when MCBC and SABMiller plc ("SABMiller") combined the U.S. and Puerto Rico operations of their respective subsidiaries, CBC and Miller Brewing Company ("Miller"), and the results and financial position of U.S. operations, which had historically comprised substantially all of our U.S. reporting segment were, in all material respects, deconsolidated from MCBC prospectively upon formation of MillerCoors LLC ("MillerCoors"); Molson Coors Brewing Company (UK) Limited ("MCBC-UK"), operating in the United Kingdom ("U.K.") and the Republic of Ireland; Molson Coors International ("MCI") operating in various other countries; and our other non-operating subsidiaries. Any reference to "Coors" means the Adolph Coors Company prior to the 2005 merger with Molson Inc. (the "Merger"). Any reference to Molson Inc. or Molson means MCC prior to the Merger. Any reference to "Molson Coors" means MCBC after the Merger.

Unless otherwise indicated, information in this report is presented in U.S. dollars ("USD" or "$").

History

Molson and Coors were founded in 1786 and 1873, respectively. Our commitment to producing the highest quality beers is a key part of our heritage and remains so today. Our brands are designed to appeal to a wide range of consumer tastes, styles and price preferences. Our largest markets are Canada, the U.S. and the U.K.

Coors was incorporated in June 1913 under the laws of the State of Colorado. In August 2003, Coors changed its state of incorporation to the State of Delaware. In February 2005 upon completion of the Merger, Coors changed its name to Molson Coors Brewing Company.

Our Operating Segments

We operate the following business segments: Canada, the U.S., the U.K., and MCI. A separate operating team manages each segment, and each segment manufactures, markets, and sells beer and other beverage products.

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 3 "Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ("Notes") for information relating to our segments and operations, including financial and     geographic information. For certain risks attendant to our foreign operations, refer to Part I—Item 1A Risk Factors and the discussions regarding our Canada, U.K. and MCI segments.

No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated or segmented sales in2011,2010or2009.

Our Products

We have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands, including signature brandsCoors Light, Molson CanadianandCarling,which are positioned to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions.

Brands sold in Canada includeCoors Light,Molson Canadian,Molson Export, Molson Canadian 67, Molson Dry,Molson M, Rickard's Red,Rickard's Blondeand otherRickard'sbrands,Carling, Carling Black Label, Pilsner, Keystone, Creemore Springs, theGranville Islandbrands,Caffrey's, Cobra,and a number of other regional brands. We also brew or distribute under license the following brands:Heineken, Amstel Light,andMurphy'sunder license from Heineken N.V. ("Heineken"),AsahiandAsahi Selectunder license from Asahi Breweries, Ltd.,Miller Lite,Miller Genuine Draft,Miller Chill, Milwaukee's Best,andMilwaukee's Best Dryunder license from SABMiller, andFoster'sunder license from Foster's Group Limited ("Fosters"). We are also party to a joint venture with Grupo Modelo S.A.B. de C.V. ("Modelo"), which imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio, including theCorona, Coronita, Negra Modelo,andPacificobrands, across all Canadian provinces and territories.

MillerCoors sells a wide variety of brands in the U.S. Its flagship premium light brands areCoors LightandMiller Lite. Brands in the domestic premium segment includeCoors Banquet,Miller Genuine Draft,andMiller 64. Brands in the domestic super premium segment includeMiller ChillandSparks. Brands in the below premium segment includeMiller High Life, Keystone,Icehouse,Mickey's,Milwaukee's Best, Hamm's,andOld English 800brands. MillerCoors also brews or distributes under license theMolsonandFoster'sbrands andGeorge Killian's Irish Red. Craft and import brands, marketed and sold through Tenth and Blake, include theBlue Moonbrands,Henry Weinhard'sbrands,Leinenkugel'sbrands,Peroni Nastro









Azzurro,Pilsner Urquell,Batch 19andGrolsch. Brands in the non-alcoholic segment includeCoors Non-AlcoholicandSharp's. MCBC and SABMiller assigned the United States and Puerto Rican ownership rights to their legacy brands to MillerCoors, but retained all ownership of these brands outside the United States and Puerto Rico.

Brands sold in the U.K. include:Carling,C2,Carling Chrome,Coors Light,Worthington's,White Shield, Red Shield, Caffrey's, Sharp'sDoom Bar, Animée,andBlue Moon,as well as a number of smaller regional ale brands. We also sell theGrolschbrands through a joint venture with Royal Grolsch N.V. and theCobrabrands through a joint venture called Cobra Beer Partnership Ltd., ("Cobra U.K.") and are the exclusive distributor for several brands which are sold under license, includingCorona, Coronita, Negra Modelo,Pacifico,andSingha. Additionally, in order to be able to provide a full line of beer and other beverages to our on-premise customers, we sell "factored" brands, including wines in our U.K. segment, which are third party brands for which we provide distribution to retail, typically on a non-exclusive basis.

MCI also markets and sells several of our brands in its international markets. Brands unique to these international markets includeZima, Si'hai, Coors Gold,andCoors Extra.

Canada Segment

We are Canada's second largest brewer by volume and North America's oldest beer company. Our approximate market share of the Canada beer market at the end of 2011 was 40%. We brew, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of beer brands nationally. Our portfolio has leading brands in all major product and price segments. Our focus and investment is on key owned brands, includingCoors Light, Molson Canadian, Carling, Molson Dry, Molson Export, Rickard's, Pilsner, Creemore SpringsandGranville Islandand key strategic distribution partnerships, including those with Heineken, Modelo and SABMiller. In 2011,Coors Lighthad an approximate 14% market share and was the top selling beer brand in Canada andMolson Canadianhad an approximate 8% market share and was the third largest selling beer in Canada.

The Canada segment also includes our partnership arrangements related to the distribution of beer in Ontario, Brewers' Retail Inc. ("BRI"), and in the Western provinces, Brewers' Distributor Ltd. ("BDL"). BRI and BDL are currently accounted for under the equity method of accounting. BRI was consolidated in our financial statements until March 1, 2009, when it was deconsolidated. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4 "Investments" of the Notes for further discussion.

Sales and Distribution

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the beer industry, particularly with regard to the pricing, mark-up, container management, sale, distribution, and advertising of beer. Distribution and the retail sale of alcohol products involve a wide range and varied degree of Canadian government control through their respective provincial liquor boards.

Province of Ontario

In Ontario, beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, at government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, at approved agents of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, or at any bar, restaurant, or tavern licensed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to sell liquor for on-premise consumption. We, together with certain other brewers, participate in the ownership of BRI in proportion to provincial market share relative to other brewers in the ownership group. Brewers may deliver directly to BRI's outlets or may choose to use BRI's distribution centers to access retail stores in Ontario, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario system and licensed establishments.

Province of Québec

In Québec, beer is distributed directly by each brewer or through independent agents. We are the agent for the licensed brands we distribute. The brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise consumption. Québec retail sales for off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores as well as government operated outlets.

Province of British Columbia

In British Columbia, the government's Liquor Distribution Branch controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all alcohol products in the province. BDL which we co-own with a competitor, manages the distribution of our products throughout British Columbia. Consumers can purchase beer at any Liquor Distribution Branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. Establishments licensed primarily for on-premise liquor sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption.

Province of Alberta

In Alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a









government sponsored system in the case of U.S. sourced products. All sales of liquor in Alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and restaurants. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Alberta.

Other Provinces

Our products are distributed in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan through local liquor boards. Manitoba and Saskatchewan also have licensed private retailers. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. In the Maritime Provinces (other than Newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell our products. Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut manage distribution and sell through government liquor commissioners.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We select global suppliers in order to procure the highest quality materials and services at the lowest prices available. We also use hedging instruments to mitigate the risk of volatility in certain commodities and foreign exchange markets.

We source barley malt from two primary providers. Hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the U.S., Europe, and New Zealand. Other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced from two main suppliers, both in North America. We do not foresee any significant risk of disruption in the supply of these agricultural products. Water used in the brewing process is from local sources in the communities where our breweries operate. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate seven breweries, strategically located throughout Canada, which brew, bottle, package, market and distribute all owned and certain licensed brands sold in and exported from Canada. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.

Packaging Materials

We single source glass bottles and aluminum cans and have a committed supply through 2014 and 2016, respectively. Availability of glass bottles and aluminum cans has not been an issue, and we do not expect any difficulties in accessing them in the future. The distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network for returnable bottles and aluminum cans. The standard container for beer brewed in Canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle, which in 2011 represented a significant majority of the approximately 51% of bottle volume sales in Canada. In 2011, aluminum cans accounted for approximately 39% of volume sales in Canada. In 2011, we sold approximately 10% of our beer volume in stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased every year, and we have no long-term supply commitment. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. We do not foresee difficulties in accessing these packaging products in the near future.

Contract Manufacturing

We have an agreement with North American Breweries to brew, package and shipLabatttrademark brands to the U.S. market through 2016.

Seasonality of Business

Consumption of beer in Canada is seasonal, with approximately 39% of our sales volume occurring during the four months from May through August 2011, which is consistent with our historical results.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2011 Canada Beer Industry Overview

The Canadian brewing industry is a mature market. It is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from regional brewers, microbrewers and certain foreign brewers, as well as our main domestic competitor. These competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling activities.

There are three major beer price segments: above premium, which includes most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light sub-segment; and value (below premium).

Since 2001, the premium beer segment in Canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value segments. For each of the five years ended December 31, 2008, Canada beer industry shipments annual average growth rate approximated 1%. For each of the two years ended December 31, 2010, there were slight declines and for the year ended December 31, 2011,









there was an approximate decline of 1.5% in Canada beer industry shipments.

Our Competitive Position

Our brands compete with competitor beer brands and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer segments.

The Canada brewing industry is comprised principally of two major brewers, MCBC and Anheuser-Busch InBev ("ABI"), whose combined market share in 2011 was approximately 82% of beer sold in Canada. In 2011, the Ontario and Québec markets accounted for approximately 62% of the total beer market in Canada.

Regulation

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling, and pricing of beer (including the establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production and sale of beer. In addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes, consumption taxes, excise taxes, and in certain instances, custom duties on imported beer. In 2011, our Canada excise taxes totaled $665.5 million or approximately $75 per hectoliter sold. Further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign governments, especially with the United States, affect the Canadian beer industry.

United States Segment

Effective July 1, 2008, MCBC and SABMiller formed MillerCoors to combine their respective U.S. and Puerto Rico operations. Each party contributed its business and related operating assets and certain liabilities. The percentage interests in the profits of MillerCoors are 58% for SABMiller and 42% for MCBC. Voting interests are shared 50%-50%, and MCBC and SABMiller have equal board representation within MillerCoors. MCBC and SABMiller each agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in MillerCoors for a period of five years from the date of combination, and certain rights of first refusal apply to any subsequent assignment. Our interest in MillerCoors is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

Prior to the formation of MillerCoors, we produced, marketed, and sold the MCBC portfolio of brands in the United States and its territories, and our U.S. operating segment included the results of the Rocky Mountain Metal Container ("RMMC") and Rocky Mountain Bottle Container ("RMBC") joint ventures. Effective July 1, 2008, MCBC's equity investment in MillerCoors represents our U.S. operating segment.

Sales and Distribution

In the United States, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. A national network of approximately 450 independent distributors purchases MillerCoors' products and distributes them to retail accounts. In 2011, approximately 18% was sold on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 82% was sold off-premise in convenience stores, grocery stores, liquor stores and other retail outlets. MillerCoors wholly owns one distributorship, which handled less than 1% of its total volume in2011.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

MillerCoors uses the highest quality ingredients to brew its products. MillerCoors malts a portion of its production requirements, using barley purchased under yearly contracts from independent farmers located in the western United States. Other barley, malt, and cereal grains are purchased from suppliers primarily in the U.S. Hops are purchased from suppliers in the U.S., New Zealand and certain European countries. MillerCoors has water rights to provide for and to sustain brewing operations in case of a prolonged drought in the regions for which it has operations. MillerCoors does not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

There are eight major breweries/packaging facilities which produce MillerCoors products. MillerCoors importsMolsonbrands from MCBC andPeroni Nastro Azzurro,Pilsner Urquell,Grolsch, and other import brands from SABMiller.

Packaging Materials

Over half of U.S. products sold were packaged in aluminum cans in2011. A portion of aluminum cans were purchased









from RMMC, a joint venture with Ball Corporation ("Ball"), whose production facilities are located near the brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition to the supply agreement with RMMC, MillerCoors has a commercial supply agreement with Ball to purchase cans and ends in excess of what is supplied through RMMC; these agreements have various expiration dates. The RMMC joint venture agreement was scheduled to expire at the end of 2011, however, during the fourth quarter of 2011, MillerCoors signed a 10-year contract extension with Ball to extend the RMMC joint venture agreement along with the commercial can and end purchase agreements. Approximately one-third of U.S. products in2011were packaged in glass bottles of which a portion was provided by RMBC, a joint venture with Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc ("Owens"). The joint venture with Owens, as well as a supply agreement with Owens for the glass bottles required in excess of RMBC's production, expires in 2015. The approximate remaining 10% of U.S. production volume sold in2011was packaged in half, quarter, and one-sixth barrel stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased each year, and there is no long-term supply agreement. Crowns, labels, corrugate and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. MillerCoors does not foresee difficulties in accessing packaging products in the future.

Contract Manufacturing

MillerCoors has an agreement to brew, package and ship products for Pabst Brewing Company through June 2020. Additionally, MillerCoors produces beer under contract for our MCI segment, SABMiller and Foster's LLC.

Seasonality of the Business

MillerCoors U.S. sales volumes are normally lowest in the winter months (first and fourth quarters) and highest in the summer months (second and third quarters).

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2011 U.S. Beer Industry Overview

The beer industry in the United States is highly competitive, and the two largest brewers, of which MillerCoors is the smaller, represent approximately 77% of the market. The creation of MillerCoors created a stronger U.S. brewer with the scale, operational efficiency and distribution platform to compete more effectively in the U.S. market place. Growing or even maintaining market share has required significant investments in marketing. For the ten years ended December 31, 2008, the U.S. beer industry shipments annual growth rate approximated 1%, compared with declines ranging from 1% to 2% in each of the years2009to2011.

The decline in the U.S. beer industry has been partially attributed to relatively poor economic conditions. High rates of unemployment and lower consumer confidence have negatively affected the legal age key beer drinkers' purchasing behaviors.

Our Competitive Position

The MillerCoors portfolio of beers competes with numerous above premium, premium, low-calorie, popular priced, non-alcoholic, and imported brands. These competing brands are produced by international, national, regional and local brewers. MillerCoors competes most directly with ABI, but also competes with imported and craft beer brands. MillerCoors is the nation's second largest brewer by volume, selling approximately 29% of the total2011U.S. brewing industry shipments (including exports and U.S. shipments of imports). This compares to ABI's estimated market share of 48%.

MillerCoors' products also compete with other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus their competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Driven by increased spirits advertising along with increased wine and spirits execution, sales of wine and spirits have grown faster than sales of beers in recent years resulting in a reduction in the beer segment's lead in the overall alcohol beverage market.

Regulation

The U.S. beer business is regulated by federal, state, and local governments. These regulations govern many parts of MillerCoors' operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor relationships, sales, and environmental issues. To operate their facilities, MillerCoors must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department; Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau; the U.S. Department of Agriculture; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol regulatory agencies; and state and federal environmental agencies.

Governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. U.S. federal excise taxes on malt beverages approximated $15 per hectoliter in2011. Based on state law, state excise taxes are levied in specific states at varying rates with an average rate of approximately $1 per hectoliter in2011.









United Kingdom Segment

We are the United Kingdom's second largest brewer by volume with an approximate 19% share (excluding factored products), in 2011, of the U.K. beer market, Western Europe's second largest market. Sales are primarily in England and Wales, withCarlingrepresenting approximately 75% of our total U.K. segment beer volume. The U.K. segment consists of our production and sale of the MCBC brands in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, our joint venture arrangement for the production and distribution ofGrolschbrands in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, our joint venture arrangement for the production and distribution of theCobrabrands in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, factored brand sales (beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us), and our Tradeteam joint venture arrangement with DHL (formerly Exel Logistics) for the distribution of products throughout the U.K. Additionally, we distribute the Modelo brands, includingCorona, pursuant to a distribution agreement with Modelo.

Sales and Distribution

In the U.K., beer is generally distributed through a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers. Most of our beer in the U.K. is sold directly to retailers. It is also common in the U.K. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). Approximately 27% of our U.K. segment net sales in2011represent factored brands. Factored brand sales are included in our net sales and cost of goods, but are not included in our reported volumes.

Generally, over the past three decades, volumes have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market.

On-Premise Channel

The on-premise channel accounted for approximately 63% of our U.K. sales volumes in2011. The on-premise channel has two sub-categories: multiple on-premise and independent on-premise. Multiple on-premise refers to those customers who own a number of pubs and restaurants and independent on-premise refers to individual owner-operators of pubs and restaurants. In2011, approximately 49% and 51% of our on-premise volume represents multiple (including national wholesalers) and independent on-premise customers, respectively. In recent years, pricing competition in the on-premise channel has intensified as the retail pub chains have consolidated. As a result, the larger pub chains have been able to negotiate lower beer prices from brewers.

The installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we own equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers. This includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and counter mounts.

Similar to other U.K. brewers, we utilize loans in securing supply relationships with customers in the on-premise market. Loans are normally granted at below-market rates of interest, with the outlet purchasing beer at lower-than-average discount levels to compensate. We reclassify a portion of sales revenue to interest income to reflect the economic substance of these loans. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 1 "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes for further discussion.

Off-Premise Channel

The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 37% of our U.K. sales volume in2011. The off-premise channel includes sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a small number of super-store chains, placing increasing downward pressure on pricing.

Distribution

Distribution activities for both the on- and off-premise channels are conducted by Tradeteam, which operates a system of satellite warehouses and a transportation fleet.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We use the highest quality water, barley and hops to brew our products. During2011, we produced 100% of our required malt using U.K. sourced barley. Hops and adjunct starches used in the brewing process are purchased from agricultural sources in the U.K., U.S. and on the European continent. Water used in the brewing process is sourced from various wells that have sufficient recharge capacity for assumed production. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.









Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate four breweries in the U.K which brew, bottle, package and distribute all owned brands sold in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland with the exception of Coors Light, which is contract brewed in the Republic of Ireland. See "Contract Manufacturing" and Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.

Packaging Materials

We used kegs and casks for approximately 52% of our U.K. products in2011, reflecting a high percentage of product sold on-premise. Approximately 36% of our U.K. products were packaged in steel cans with aluminum ends in2011. All of our cans are purchased through a supply contract with Ball. Approximately 12% of our U.K. products are packaged in glass bottles purchased through supply contracts with third-party suppliers. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from concentrated sources unique to each product. We do not foresee difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the foreseeable future.

Contract Manufacturing

We have a contract brewing and kegging agreement with Heineken for theFostersandKronenbourgbrands. We also have an agreement with Heineken whereby it will brew and package certain of our products for sale in the Republic of Ireland through December 2014. In addition, we agreed to a multi-year agreement to contract brew ales for Carlsberg Group ("Carlsberg") which began in 2011.

Seasonality of Business

In the U.K., the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major televised sporting events. Peak selling seasons occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holidays.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2011U.K. Beer Industry Overview

The U.K. beer market in2011declined by 4.2%, with the on-premise declining 5.0% and the off-premise decreasing 3.5%, impacted by poor summer weather, poor economic conditions and excise tax increases in excess of general inflation. A widening price differential between the on-premise (higher prices) and the off-premise (lower prices) has tended to benefit off-premise sales. The recession has accelerated the downward pricing trend. For each of the ten years ended December 31, 2007, U.K. beer industry shipments declined at an average rate of between 1% and 2%, compared with declines of approximately 4% in the years 2008 to2011.

The industry has also experienced a steady trend away from ales and toward lagers. Sales of lagers accounted for 76% of the U.K. market in2011.

Our Competitive Position

Our beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders. With the exception of stout, where we do not have our own brand, our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories. Our strength in the growing lager category withCarling,Grolsch,Coors Light, CoronaandCobrapositions us well to take advantage of the continuing trend toward lagers. Our portfolio has been strengthened by the introduction of a range of imported and specialty beer brands, such asSingha, Blue Moon, AniméeandSharp'sDoom Bar.

Our principal competitors are Heineken, ABI, and Carlsberg, with market shares in2011of approximately 24%, 18%, and 14%, respectively, compared to our share of 19%.

Regulation

U.K. regulations apply to many parts of our operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment, and data protection regulations. To operate our breweries and carry on business in the U.K., we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from local Licensing Justices and governmental bodies, including Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs; the Office of Fair Trading; the Data Protection Commissioner and the Environment Agency.

The U.K. government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages at varying rates depending on the type of product and its alcohol content by volume. In 2011, our excise taxes totaled $967.6 million or $106 per hectoliter. In 2010, the U.K.









government announced that alcohol excise tax rates will increase at a rate of 2% above U.K. inflation annually through 2015.

Molson Coors International Segment

The objective of MCI is to grow and expand our business and brand portfolios in our non-core and emerging markets. Our current business is in Asia, continental Europe, Mexico, Latin America and the Caribbean (excluding Puerto Rico as it is a part of the U.S. segment).

Asia

The MCI Asia region is primarily composed of businesses in China, Japan and India, with increasing focus in the Philippines and Vietnam markets. The Japan business is focused on theZimaandCoors Lightbrands. Additionally, in January2011, our Japan business began selling theCoronabrands pursuant to a distribution agreement with Modelo completed in November 2010. In September 2010, a joint venture agreement was finalized in China with Hebei Si'hai Beer Company, giving us a 51% share of the newly formed Molson Coors Si'hai Brewing (China) Co., Ltd. ("MC Si'hai"). In June 2011, a joint venture agreement was finalized in India with Cobra India, giving us a 51% share and operational control of the newly formed Molson Coors Cobra India ("MC Cobra India"). MC Cobra India produces, sells and markets a beer portfolio consisting ofKing Cobra,King Cobra SuperiorandIceberg 9000. The results of both MC Si'hai and MC Cobra India are consolidated in our financial statements.

Europe

Our business within continental Europe is focused on growingCarling,Coors LightandCobra. These products are brewed by and exported from our U.K. breweries to portions of continental Europe. In 2011, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Obolon CJSC for manufacturing and distribution ofCarlingin Ukraine. In 2010, related to our business in Spain, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Mahou San Miguel for manufacturing and distribution ofCoorsand distribution ofCarling. In 2010, we entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Moscow Brewing Company for manufacturing and distribution ofCoors Lightin Russia.

Mexico, Latin America, the Caribbean, and Other

Coors Lightis sold in Mexico through an exclusive licensing agreement with Heineken. In the Caribbean and Latin America, our products are produced under a brewing agreement with MillerCoors and are exported to and sold through agreements with independent distributors.

Corporate

Corporate includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments. The majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, insurance and risk management. Additionally, the results of our water resources and energy operations in Colorado are included in Corporate. Corporate also includes certain royalty income and administrative costs related to the management of intellectual property.

Other Information

Global Intellectual Property

We own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patent and design registrations relating to beer dispensing systems, packaging, and certain other innovations. These patents have expiration dates through 2035. We are not reliant on patent royalties for our financial success. Therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. Such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation, and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and estimable. However, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such laws. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 20 "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes under









the caption "Environmental"for additional information regarding environmental matters.

Employees and Employee Relations

Canada

We have approximately 2,880 full-time employees in our Canada segment, of which 61% are represented by trade unions. We maintain agreements with the various unions representing workers at each of our facilities. We believe that relations with our Canada employees are good.

United States

We have approximately 185 employees in our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado. We believe that relations with our U.S. employees are good.

MillerCoors has approximately 9,000 employees. Approximately 36% of its work force is represented by unions. We believe that MillerCoors' relations with its U.S. employees are good.

United Kingdom

We have approximately 2,440 employees in our U.K. segment. Approximately 25% of this total workforce is represented by trade unions, primarily at our Burton-on-Trent and Tadcaster breweries. We believe that relations with our U.K. employees are good.

Molson Coors International

We have approximately 758 employees in our MCI business in 15 countries, primarily in Asia (China, India and Japan) and within our Denver headquarters office. We believe that relations with these employees are good.

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 3 "Segment Reporting" of the Notes for discussion of sales, operating income, and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.

Available Information

Our internet website is http://www.molsoncoors.com. Through a direct link to our reports at the SEC's website at      http://www.sec.gov, we make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. The information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report.

All of Molson Coors' directors and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and other senior financial officers, are bound by Molson Coors' Code of Business Conduct, which complies with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the SEC to ensure that the business of Molson Coors is conducted in a legal and ethical manner. The Code of Business Conduct covers all areas of professional conduct, including employment policies, conflicts of interest, fair dealing, and the protection of confidential information, as well as strict adherence to all laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct is available on the Molson Coors website. Molson Coors endeavors to disclose amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of the Code of Business Conduct for executive officers and directors on its website within four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver.

























Executive Officers

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 17, 2012:

NameAgePositionPeter Swinburn59President, Chief Executive Officer, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCKrishnan Anand54President of Molson Coors InternationalPeter H. Coors65Vice Chairman of the Board of the Company, Executive Director of Coors Brewing Company, and Chairman of the Board of MillerCoors LLCStewart Glendinning46Chief Financial Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCMark Hunter49President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors Brewing Company (UK) LimitedDavid Perkins58President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors CanadaGregory L. Wade63Chief Supply Chain OfficerSamuel D. Walker53Chief People and Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and Managing Director of MillerCoors LLC



