ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Unless otherwise noted in this report, any description of "we", "us" or "our" includes Molson Coors Brewing Company ("MCBC" or the "Company"), principally a holding company, and its operating and non-operating subsidiaries included within our reporting segments and Corporate. Our reporting segments include: Molson Coors Canada ("MCC" or Canada segment), operating in Canada; MillerCoors LLC ("MillerCoors" or U.S. segment), which is accounted for by us under the equity method of accounting, operating in the United States ("U.S."); Molson Coors Europe (Europe segment), operating in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia and Slovakia (collectively, "Central Europe"), as well as the United Kingdom ("U.K.") and the Republic of Ireland; and Molson Coors International ("MCI"), operating in various other countries. Any reference to "Coors" means the Adolph Coors Company prior to the 2005 merger with Molson Inc. (the "Merger"). Any reference to Molson Inc. or Molson means MCC prior to the Merger. Any reference to "Molson Coors" means MCBC after the Merger.

Unless otherwise indicated, information in this report is presented in U.S. dollars ("USD" or "$").

Background

We are one of the world's largest brewers and have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands, including signature brandsCoors Light,Molson Canadian,CarlingandStaropramen, as well as craft and specialty beers such asBlue Moon,Creemore Springs,CobraandDoom Bar. For more than 350 combined years, we have been brewing, innovating and delighting the world's beer drinkers. Our success depends on our ability to make our products available to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions.

Molson and Coors were founded in 1786 and 1873, respectively. Our commitment to producing the highest quality beers is a key part of our heritage and remains so to this day. Our brands are designed to appeal to a wide range of consumer tastes, styles and price preferences. Our largest markets are Canada, the U.S. and Europe.

Coors was incorporated in June 1913 under the laws of the state of Colorado. In August 2003, Coors changed its state of incorporation to the state of Delaware. In February 2005, upon completion of the Merger, Coors changed its name to Molson Coors Brewing Company.

Our Segments

In 2013, we operated the following segments: Canada, the U.S., Europe, and MCI. On June 15, 2012, we completed our acquisition (the "Acquisition") of StarBev Holdings S.a.r.l. ("StarBev"), which represents our Central Europe operations. Effective as of the first day of our 2013 fiscal year, we combined our U.K. and Ireland business with our Central Europe operations, which resulted in our Europe segment, and we have recast the historical presentation of segment information accordingly. A separate operating team manages each segment and each segment manufactures, markets, and sells beer and other beverage products.

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 4, "Segment Reporting"of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ("Notes") for information relating to our segments and operations, including financial and geographic information. For certain risks attendant to our operations, refer to Part I—Item 1A, Risk Factors.

Our Products

We have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands which are positioned to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions in a variety of markets, including signature brandsCoors Light, Molson Canadian, CarlingandStaropramen.

Brands sold in Canada includeCoors Light,Molson Canadian,Molson Export, Molson Canadian 67, Molson Dry,Molson Canadian Cider,theRickard'sfamily of brands,Carling, Carling Black Label, Pilsner, Keystone Light, Creemore Springs, theGranville Islandbrands,Coors Banquetand a number of other regional brands. We also brew or distribute under license the following brands:Heineken, Amstel Light,Murphy's, Newcastle Brown AleandStrongbowcider under license from Heineken N.V. ("Heineken"), andMiller Lite,Miller Genuine Draft,Miller Chill, Milwaukee's Best,andMilwaukee's Best Dryunder license from SABMiller plc ("SABMiller"). Additionally, we are party to a joint venture, Modelo Molson Imports, L.P. ("MMI"), with Grupo Modelo S.A.B. de C.V. ("Modelo") that imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio, including theCorona, Coronita, Negra Modelo,andPacificobrands, across all Canadian provinces and territories. MMI is accounted for under the equity method. In November 2013, Anheuser-Busch InBev ("ABI") and MCBC entered into an









agreement providing for the accelerated termination of the MMI joint venture in February 2014. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 5, "Investments"of the Notes for additional information. In Canada, we also have contract brewing agreements to produce for the U.S. marketAsahi Super DryandAsahi Selectfor Asahi Breweries, Ltd. andLabatt BlueandLabatt Blue Lightfor North American Breweries, Inc.

MillerCoors sells a wide variety of brands in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. In the formation of the MillerCoors joint venture, MCBC and SABMiller each assigned the U.S. and Puerto Rican ownership rights to its respective legacy brands to MillerCoors, but retained all ownership of these brands outside the United States and Puerto Rico. MillerCoors' flagship premium light brands areCoors LightandMiller Lite. Brands in the domestic premium segment areCoors BanquetandMiller Genuine Draft. Brands in the economy segment includeMiller High Life, Keystone,Icehouse,Mickey's,Milwaukee's Best, Hamm's,andOlde English 800brands. MillerCoors also brews or distributes under license theMolsonandFoster'sbrands andGeorge Killian's Irish Red.Craft and import brands, some of which are marketed and sold through Tenth and Blake, include theBlue Moonbrands,Henry Weinhard'sbrands,Leinenkugel'sbrands,Redd'sbrands,Peroni Nastro Azzurro,Pilsner Urquell,Batch 19,Grolsch, Worthington's, St. Stefanus, Third Shift,and cider brands from the Crispin Cider Company. Brands in the non-alcoholic segment includeCoors Non-AlcoholicandSharp's.

Brands sold in Europe includeCarling, Ozujsko, Jelen, Staropramen, Coors Light, Kamenitza, Niksicko, Bergenbier, Branik, Worthington's, Sharp's Doom Bar, Borsodi, Ostravar, Noroc, Astika, ApatinskoandBlue Moon,as well as a number of smaller regional ale brands in the U.K., Ireland and Central Europe.The European business has licensing agreements with various other brewers through which it also brews or distributes theStella Artois, Hoegaarden, Leffe, Beck's, Lowenbrau, Spaten, LöwenweisseandBelle-Vue Kriekbrands in certain Central European countries. In the U.K., we also sell theGrolschbrands through a joint venture with Royal Grolsch N.V. and theCobrabrands through the Cobra Beer Partnership Ltd. joint venture, and are the exclusive distributor for several brands which are sold under license, includingCorona,which is sold under our licensing arrangement with Modelo through 2014,andSingha. Additionally, in order to be able to provide a full line of beer and other beverages to our U.K. on-premise customers, we sell "factored" brands, which are third-party beverage brands for which we provide distribution to retail, typically on a non-exclusive basis.

Brands sold in our international markets as part of our MCI segment, including brands sold under export and license agreements, includeStaropramen, Coors Light, Carling, Cobra, Blue MoonandCorona. We also market and sell brands unique to these international markets which includeZima, Iceberg 9000, King Cobra, Coors, Coors Gold,andCoors Extra.

Canada Segment

We are Canada's second-largest brewer by volume and North America's oldest beer company. Our approximate market share of the Canada beer market in2013was 38%. We brew, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of beer brands nationally. Our portfolio has leading brands in all major product and price segments. Our focus and investment is on key owned brands, includingCoors Light, Molson Canadian, Carling, Molson Dry, Molson Export, Rickard's, Pilsner, Creemore Springs, Coors BanquetandGranville Islandand strategic distribution partnerships, including those with Heineken and SABMiller. In2013,Coors Lighthad an approximate 13% market share and was the top selling beer brand in Canada, andMolson Canadianhad an approximate 8% market share and was the third largest selling beer in Canada.

The Canada segment also includes our partnership arrangements related to the distribution of beer in Ontario, Brewers' Retail Inc. ("BRI"), and in the Western provinces, Brewers' Distributor Ltd. ("BDL"). BRI and BDL are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

Sales and Distribution

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the beer industry, particularly with regard to the pricing, mark-up, container management, sale, distribution, and advertising of beer. Distribution and the retail sale of alcohol products involve a wide range and varied degree of Canadian government control through their respective provincial liquor boards.

Province of Ontario

In Ontario, beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, at government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, at approved agents of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, or at any bar, restaurant, or tavern licensed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to sell alcohol for on-premise consumption. We, together with certain other brewers, participate in the ownership of BRI in proportion to provincial market share relative to other brewers in the ownership group. Brewers may deliver directly to BRI's outlets or may choose to use BRI's distribution centers to access retail stores in Ontario, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario system and licensed establishments.









Province of Québec

In Québec, beer is distributed to retail outlets directly by each brewer or through independent agents. We are the agent for the licensed brands we distribute. The brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise consumption. Québec retail sales for off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores as well as government operated outlets. During November 2012, an increase in beer excise taxes of over 20% was announced and implemented in Québec.

Province of British Columbia

In British Columbia, the government's Liquor Distribution Branch controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all alcohol products in the province. BDL, which we co-own with a competitor, manages the distribution of our products throughout British Columbia. Consumers can purchase beer at any Liquor Distribution Branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. Establishments licensed primarily for on-premise alcohol sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption.

Province of Alberta

In Alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a government sponsored system in the case of U.S. sourced products. All sales of liquor in Alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and restaurants. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Alberta.

Other Provinces

Our products are distributed in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan through local liquor boards. Manitoba and Saskatchewan also have licensed private retailers. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. In the Maritime Provinces (other than Newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell our products. In Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut, government liquor commissioners manage the distribution and sale of our products.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We select global suppliers in order to procure the highest quality materials and services at the lowest prices available. We also use hedging instruments to mitigate the risk of volatility in certain commodities and foreign exchange markets.

We source barley malt from one primary provider. Hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the U.S., Europe, and New Zealand. Other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced from two main suppliers, both in North America. We do not foresee any significant risk of disruption in the supply of these agricultural products in the immediate future. Water used in the brewing process is from local sources in the communities where our breweries operate. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate seven breweries, strategically located throughout Canada. These locations brew and package all owned and certain licensed brands sold in, and exported from, Canada. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.

Packaging Materials

We single source glass bottles and have a committed supply through December 2014. We source lids and cans from two primary providers with contracts ending December 2014 and February 2015, respectively. We currently utilize a hedging program for aluminum requirements and related transportation and storage costs in Canada. We do not currently expect any future difficulties in accessing glass bottles or aluminum cans. The distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network for returnable bottles and aluminum cans. The standard container for beer brewed in Canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle, which in2013represented a significant majority of the approximately43%of volume sales (excluding imports) in Canada in bottles. In2013, aluminum cans accounted for approximately 46% of our volume sales (excluding imports) in Canada. In2013, we sold approximately 11% of our beer volume (excluding imports) in stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased every year, and we have no long-term supply commitment. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. We do not currently foresee future difficulties in accessing these packaging products in the near term.









Contract Manufacturing

We have an agreement with North American Breweries, Inc. to brew, package and shipLabatttrademark brands to the U.S. market through the end of 2015. We also have an agreement with Asahi Breweries, Ltd. to brew and packageAsahi Super DryandAsahi Selectto the U.S. market through early 2017.

Seasonality of Business

Total industry volume in Canada is sensitive to factors such as weather, changes in demographics, consumer preferences and drinking occasions. Weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. Accordingly, consumption of beer in Canada is seasonal, with approximately 40% of industry sales volume typically occurring during the warmer months from May through August.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2013Canada Beer Industry Overview

The Canadian brewing industry is a mature market. It is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from regional brewers, microbrewers and certain foreign brewers, as well as our main domestic competitor. These competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling activities.

There are three major beer price segments: above premium, which includes most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light sub-segment; and value (below premium).

Since 2001, the premium beer segment in Canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value segments. For each of the five years ended December 31, 2008, Canada beer industry shipments annual average growth rate approximated 1%. Since that time, the beer industry has been soft, with declines in four of the last five years. Aging population and a stalled economy have been main contributors to the declining state of the beer industry.

The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcoholic beverages as a component of the overall Canadian alcohol market over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We believe that 2013 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the current consumer trends.

20122011201020092008Beer51.3%51.9%52.8%53.3%53.4%Other alcohol beverages48.7%48.1%47.2%46.7%46.6%

Our Competitive Position

Our brands compete with competitor beer brands and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer segments.

The Canada brewing industry is composed principally of two major brewers, MCBC, which had approximately 39% of the market share in2013, and ABI, which had approximately 40% of the market share in2013. In2013, the Ontario and Québec markets accounted for approximately 60% of the total beer market in Canada.

Regulation

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling, and pricing of beer (including the establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production and sale of beer. During November 2012, an increase in beer excise taxes of over 20% was announced and implemented in Québec. In addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes, consumption taxes, excise taxes, and in certain instances, custom duties on imported beer. In2013, our Canada excise taxes totaled$631.3 millionor approximately$76per hectoliter sold. Further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign governments, especially with the United States, affect the Canadian beer industry.









United States Segment

MillerCoors is the nation's second largest brewer by volume, selling approximately 28% of the total2013U.S. brewing industry shipments (excluding exports and U.S. shipments of imports). MillerCoors was formed on July 1, 2008 as a joint venture between MCBC and SABMiller. Each party contributed its U.S. and Puerto Rico businesses and related operating assets and certain liabilities. The percentage interests in the profits of MillerCoors are 58% for SABMiller and 42% for MCBC. Voting interests are shared 50% - 50%, and MCBC and SABMiller have equal board representation within MillerCoors. Each party to the MillerCoors joint venture agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in the joint venture for a period offiveyears from July 1, 2008. With the expiration of the restriction in 2013, both parties to the joint venture are now able to transfer their economic and voting interest, however, certain rights of first refusal will apply to any assignment of such interests. Our interest in MillerCoors is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

Prior to the formation of MillerCoors, MCBC produced, marketed, and sold the MCBC portfolio of brands in the U.S. and its territories, and its U.S. operating segment included the results of the Rocky Mountain Metal Container ("RMMC") and Rocky Mountain Bottle Container ("RMBC") joint ventures. Effective July 1, 2008, MCBC's equity investment in MillerCoors represents our U.S. operating segment.

Sales and Distribution

In the United States, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. A national network of approximately 450 independent distributors purchases MillerCoors' products and distributes them to retail accounts. In2013, approximately 18% of MillerCoors' beer volume was sold on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 82% was sold off-premise in convenience stores, grocery stores, liquor stores and other retail outlets. MillerCoors wholly owns one distributorship, which handled less than 1% of its total volume in2013.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

MillerCoors uses the highest quality ingredients to brew its products. MillerCoors malts a portion of its production requirements, using barley purchased under yearly contracts from independent farmers located in the western United States. Other barley, malt, and cereal grains are purchased from suppliers primarily in the U.S. Hops are purchased from suppliers in the U.S., New Zealand and certain European countries. MillerCoors leases water rights, including leasing from MCBC for water usage in Colorado, to provide for and to sustain brewing operations in case of a prolonged drought in the regions for which it has operations. MillerCoors does not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

There are twelve brewery and packaging facilities which produce MillerCoors products. MillerCoors importsMolsonbrands andWorthington'sfrom MCBC andPeroni Nastro Azzurro,Pilsner Urquell,Grolsch, and other import brands from SABMiller.

Packaging Materials

Over half of U.S. products sold were packaged in aluminum cans in


. A portion of aluminum cans were purchased from RMMC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Ball Corporation ("Ball"), whose production facilities are located near MillerCoors' brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition to the supply agreement with RMMC, MillerCoors has a supply agreement with Ball to purchase cans and ends in excess of what is supplied through RMMC. In 2011, MillerCoors signed a 10-year contract extension with Ball to extend the RMMC joint venture agreement along with the can and end purchase agreements. The contracts were renegotiated effective January 1, 2012 and both agreements expire December 31, 2021. Approximately one-third of U.S. products sold in


were packaged in glass bottles, of which a portion was provided by RMBC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc. ("Owens"). The joint venture with Owens, as well as a supply agreement with Owens for the glass bottles required in excess of RMBC's production, expires in 2015. The approximate remaining 10% of U.S. production volume sold in


was packaged in half, quarter, and one-sixth barrel stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased each year, and there is no long-term supply agreement. Crowns, labels, corrugate and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. MillerCoors does not foresee difficulties in accessing packaging products in the near future.

Contract Manufacturing

MillerCoors has an agreement to brew, package and ship products for Pabst Brewing Company through June 2020. Additionally, MillerCoors produces beer under contract for our Canada and MCI segments and SABMiller.









Seasonality of the Business

MillerCoors U.S. sales volumes are normally lowest in the winter months (first and fourth quarters) and highest in the summer months (second and third quarters).

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2013U.S. Beer Industry Overview

The beer industry in the United States is highly competitive, and the two largest brewers, ABI and MillerCoors together represented approximately 80% of the market in2013. The formation of MillerCoors in 2008 created a stronger U.S. presence for MCBC with the scale, operational efficiency and distribution platform to compete more effectively in the U.S. market place. Growing or even maintaining market share has required significant investments in marketing. From 1998 to 2008, the U.S. beer industry shipments annual growth rate approximated 1%, compared with declines ranging from 1% to 2% in each of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011. With ideal weather conditions, industry volumes improved slightly in 2012, growing about 1%. However, in 2013 the industry saw a decline of approximately 1% to 2%.

The 2009 to 2011 and 2013 declines in the U.S. beer industry have been partially attributed to relatively poor economic conditions. High rates of unemployment, declining labor participation rates and lower consumer confidence have negatively affected the legal age key beer drinkers' purchasing behaviors. In addition, per capita beer consumption has declined as consumer preference shifts to higher alcohol, full calorie beers.

The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcoholic beverages as a component of the overall U.S. alcohol market over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We believe that 2013 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the current consumer trends.

20122011201020092008Beer52.8%53.2%54.4%55.1%56.0%Other alcohol beverages47.2%46.8%45.6%44.9%44.0%

Our Competitive Position

The MillerCoors portfolio of beers competes with numerous above-premium, premium, and economy brands. These competing brands are produced by international, national, regional and local brewers. MillerCoors competes most directly with ABI, but also competes with imported and craft beer brands. MillerCoors is the nation's second largest brewer by volume, selling approximately 28% of the total2013U.S. brewing industry shipments (excluding exports and U.S. shipments of imports). This compares to ABI's estimated market share of 47%.

MillerCoors' products also compete with other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus their competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Driven by increased spirits advertising along with increased wine and spirits sales execution, sales of wine and spirits have grown faster than sales of beer in recent years, resulting in a reduction in the beer segment's lead in the overall alcohol beverage market.

Regulation

The U.S. beer business is regulated by federal, state, and local governments. These regulations govern many parts of MillerCoors' operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor relationships, sales, and environmental issues. To operate their facilities, MillerCoors must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department; Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau; the U.S. Department of Agriculture; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol regulatory agencies; and state and federal environmental agencies.

Governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In2013, total excise taxes on malt beverages were$1,169.0 million, or approximately$16per hectoliter sold. State excise taxes are levied in specific states at varying rates.

Europe Segment

As a result of our Acquisition of StarBev and combination of our historical U.K. and Central Europe segments, we are the second largest brewer by volume within the European countries in which we operate, with an approximate 21% market share (excluding factored products) in2013. The majority of our European segment sales are in the U.K., Czech Republic, Serbia, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary. Our portfolio includes beers that have the largest share in their respective countries,









such as

Carling

in the U.K.,

Jelen

in Serbia,

Kamenitza

in Bulgaria and

Ozujsko

in Croatia. We have beers that rank in the top three in market share in countries throughout the region, including

Staropramen

and

Borsodi.

We also brew and distribute

Stella Artois, Beck's, Lowenbrau

and

Spaten

under license agreements with ABI companies. Additionally, our Europe segment includes our consolidated joint venture arrangements for the production and distribution of

Grolsch

and

Cobra

brands in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland and factored brand sales (beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us). Tradeteam Ltd. ("Tradeteam"), our previous joint venture arrangement with DHL (formerly Exel Logistics), provided for the distribution of products throughout the U.K. and was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. In December 2013, we terminated our existing distribution agreements with Tradeteam and concurrently entered into new agreements for the continued distribution of our products in the U.K. through 2023. The new agreements were entered into at more favorable rates, consistent with current market rates, and are expected to generate future cost savings. Subsequent to the execution of the new distribution agreements, we executed a sale and purchase agreement for the termination of the joint venture and sale of our 49.9% interest in Tradeteam to DHL. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,

Note 5, "Investments"

of the Notes for additional information. Additionally, we distribute the Modelo brands, including

Corona

, pursuant to a distribution agreement with Modelo. In conjunction with negotiations in November 2013 with ABI around our Modelo distribution agreements, ABI has agreed that we will continue to represent the Modelo brands in the U.K. through the end of 2014. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,

Note 5, "Investments"

of the Notes for additional information.

Sales and Distribution

In Europe, beer is generally distributed through either a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers, or a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. Most of our beer in the U.K. is sold directly to retailers. It is also common in the U.K. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). Approximately 17% of our Europe segment net sales in2013represented factored brands. Factored brand sales are included in our net sales and cost of goods sold, but are not included in our reported volumes.

Generally, over the years, volumes in Europe have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market.

Off-Premise Channel



In Europe, the off-premise channel includes sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 60% of our Europe sales volume in2013.  The off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a small number of super-store chains, placing increasing downward pressure on beer pricing.

On-Premise Channel

The on-premise channel includes sales to pubs and restaurants. The on-premise channel accounted for approximately 40% of our Europe sales volume in2013. The installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we own refrigeration units and other equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers that are used in on-premise outlets. This includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and counter mounts.

Similar to other brewers, we utilize loans in securing supply relationships with customers in the on-premise market in the U.K. These loans are normally granted at below-market rates of interest, with the outlet purchasing beer at lower-than-average discount levels to compensate. We reclassify a portion of sales revenue to interest income to reflect the economic substance of these loans. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 1, "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies"of the Notes for additional information.

Distribution



Distribution activities for both the on-premise and off-premise channels are conducted primarily by third-party logistics providers. We utilize Tradeteam for these activities in the U.K. and several hundred third-party logistics providers across our Central European operations. We also conduct a small amount of secondary distribution in Czech Republic utilizing our own fleet of vehicles.









Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We use the highest quality water, barley, malt and hops to brew our products. During 2013, our malt requirements were sourced from both owned production and third party suppliers. We produced 37% of our total required malt from our malt-house in the U.K., using barley sourced through two suppliers Frontier and Gleadell, with commitments until 2016 and 2014, respectively. We have also entered into long term contracts with two suppliers for an additional 50% of our required malt. These contracts are with Boortmalt and Malteries Soufflet and expire at the end of 2015 and 2020, respectively. The remaining 13% of our needs are purchased on a spot basis from various maltsters in the region. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing required barley and malt in the near term. Hops are purchased under various contracts with suppliers in Germany, the U.S. and the U.K., which cover our needs through 2015. Adjuncts are purchased under various contracts with local producers, which are typically crop year contracts commencing in October of each year. Water used in the brewing process is sourced from various wells and through water rights and supply contracts. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing required water or agricultural products in the near term.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate thirteen breweries in Europe, which brew and package all owned brands sold in Europe. See Item 2, "Properties" for additional information.

Packaging Materials

Approximately 31% of our Europe volumes sold in 2013 were packaged in bottles, with a significant majority in returnable bottles. We have contracts with five suppliers for bottles, of which the majority of the contracts expired at the end of 2013. We are currently negotiating long-term supply agreements for our bottle requirements and do not currently anticipate difficulty in resourcing our requirements in the near future. We used kegs and casks for approximately 28% of volume sold in Europe in 2013. A limited number of steel kegs are purchased each year, and we are currently negotiating the agreement for our steel keg requirements for 2014. Cans represented 23% of our Europe volumes sold in 2013. We have long term contracts with four providers for our required supply of cans. Approximately 18% of our Europe volume sold in 2013 consisted of products packaged in recyclable plastic containers for which we have one year agreements with various manufacturers in the region. Crowns, labels and corrugate are purchased from sources unique to each category. We do not currently foresee future difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the near term.

Contract Manufacturing

We have a contract brewing and kegging agreement with Heineken whereby we produce and package theFoster'sandKronenbourgbrands in the U.K. In December 2013, we entered into an agreement with Heineken to early terminate this arrangement. As a result of the termination, Heineken has agreed to pay us an aggregate early termination payment of GBP13.0 millionduring and through the end of the transition period, concluding on April 30, 2015. We also have an agreement with Heineken whereby they sell, market and distributeCoors Lightin the Republic of Ireland through December 2014. We expect that this will continue into 2015 and beyond, with negotiations currently on-going for a new contract. In addition, we have a five year agreement to contract brew ales for Carlsberg Group ("Carlsberg") which was entered into in 2011.

Seasonality of Business

In Europe, the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major televised sporting events. Weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. Accordingly, the peak selling seasons typically occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holiday season.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2013Europe Beer Industry Overview

We estimate that the Europe beer market declined by more than 3% in 2013, primarily driven by declines in the overall alcohol market, with volumes shifting from the higher margin on-premise channel to the lower margin off-premise channel. Since 2010, the off-premise market share has increased from 55% to 59% of total volume, and the on-premise market share has declined from 45% to 41%. Europe beer industry shipments have declined by approximately 1% in each of 2012 and 2011 after declines of approximately 7% in 2009 and increased by approximately 4% in 2010. These market fluctuations are consistent with the fluctuations within the overall alcohol market in each of the respective years.









The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcoholic beverages as a component of the overall European alcohol market, within the countries in which we have production facilities, over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We believe that 2013 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the current consumer trends.

20122011201020092008Beer35.7%35.3%35.1%35.6%37.4%Other alcohol beverages64.3%64.7%64.9%64.4%62.6%

Our Competitive Position

Our beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders. With the exception of stout, where we do not have our own brand, we believe our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories.

In European countries where we operate, our principal competitors are Heineken, SABMiller, Carlsberg and ABI, with estimated regional market shares in 2013 of approximately 25%, 14%, 10%, and 7%, respectively, compared to our share of approximately 21%.

Regulation

Each country that is part of our Europe segment is either a member of the European Union ("EU") or a current candidate to join, with the exception of Bosnia, which is a potential current candidate, and, as such, there are similarities in the regulations that apply to many parts of our Europe segment's operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment and data protection regulations. To operate breweries and conduct our business in Europe, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from various governmental agencies.



Each country's government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages. With the exception of Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia, all countries' laws on excise taxes are consistent with the EU Directives. With the exception of Serbia, where a flat excise per hectoliter is used, all European countries use similar measurements based on either alcohol by volume or Plato degrees. Additionally, in 2010, the U.K. government announced that alcohol excise tax rates will increase at a rate of 2% above U.K. inflation annually through 2015, however, in March 2013, the U.K. government announced a reduction in beer excise tax of 2% for 2013 and cancelled the beer escalator for 2014 and replaced it with an increase of annual inflation thereafter. The 2% escalator above annual inflation is to remain in place for wine, cider and spirits. In2013, the excise taxes for our Europe segment totaled$1,137.1 million, or approximately$54per hectoliter.



Molson Coors International Segment

The objective of MCI is to grow and expand our business and brand portfolio in markets, including emerging markets, outside the U.S., Canada, U.K. and Central Europe. The focus of MCI includes Asia, continental Europe (excluding Central Europe, as it is a part of the Europe segment), Mexico, Latin America, the Caribbean (excluding Puerto Rico, as it is a part of the U.S. segment) and Australia.

Standalone Business

Our standalone operations are in the Asia region and are based in India, Japan and China.

Our consolidated joint venture in India gives us a 51% share and operational control of Molson Coors Cobra India ("MC Cobra India") which operates a brewery in the state of Bihar. MC Cobra India produces, markets and sells a beer portfolio consisting ofKing Cobra,CobraandIceberg 9000in select Indian states.

In Japan, our focus is on the marketing and selling of theZima, Coors Light, Blue MoonandModelobrands. These brands are imported into Japan and are sold through independent wholesalers to both the on-premise and off-premise channels.

Our China business is focused on growing theCoors Light, Coors Extra,andCarlingbrands,which are produced under a contract brewing agreement in China. We market and sell these brands through independent wholesalers primarily in the on-premise channel.During the third quarter of 2012, we deconsolidated our 51% ownership in our joint venture in China, Molson Coors Si'hai ("MC Si'hai"), from our financial statements due to a loss of our ability to control the joint venture, and in December 2013, we finalized the sale of our interest in the investment to our former joint venture partner. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 5, "Investments"of the Notes for additional information.









Export Business

Our export business focuses on expanding the reach of our international brands which are exported from our breweries in the U.S., U.K. and Czech Republic. The brands sold includeStaropramen, Coors Light, Carling, CobraandBlue Moon.



In Latin America and the Caribbean, our products, primarilyCoors Light, are sold through agreements with independent distributors. We also sell our brands, primarilyStaropramen, in several countries in Western Europe. Additionally, in 2013, we introducedCoorsandBlue Mooninto Australia.



Beginning in fiscal year 2013, with the combination of our U.K. and Central Europe businesses, ourCarlingtravel and export business is reported in our Europe segment. For periods prior to fiscal year 2013, this business was included within MCI.

License Business

Our license business builds long term partnerships with leading global brewers to market and grow our international brands in markets which typically have a greater barrier to entry. This business includes licensing arrangements with ABI to brew and distributeStaropramenin Russia and Ukraine and an exclusive licensing agreement with Heineken to brew and distributeCoors Lightin Mexico. We also have various licensing agreements for the manufacturing and distribution ofCarlingprimarily in Ukraine, Spain and Russia.

Corporate

Corporate includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments. The majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, tax, internal audit, insurance and risk management. Additionally, the results of our water resources and energy operations in Colorado are included in Corporate. Corporate also includes certain royalty income and administrative costs related to the management of intellectual property.

Other Information

Global Intellectual Property

We own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patent and design registrations with expiration dates through 2049 relating to beer dispensing systems, packaging and certain other innovations. We are not reliant on patent royalties for our financial success. Therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business.

Corporate Responsibility

Corporate responsibility is integral to our business strategy. We are committed to sustainable growth while improving the impact we have on our communities, people and the environment. In 2013 and 2012, we were named Global Beverage Sector Leader on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. We were listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index in 2013 and 2011. Additionally, we were selected for inclusion in the RobecomSAM's Sustainability Yearbook 2014 and have received the Industry Leader and Gold Class distinction for our sustainability performance.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. Such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation, and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and estimable. However, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such laws. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 19, "Commitments and Contingencies"of the Notes under the caption "Environmental"for additional information regarding environmental matters.

Employees

As of the end of 2013, we have approximately 9,250 full-time employees within MCBC globally, including 2,600 within our Canada segment, 6,000 employees within our Europe segment throughout Czech Republic, Serbia, Croatia, Romania,









Bulgaria, Hungary, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Slovakia, the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, 450 employees within our MCI segment in 13 countries, and 200 employees in our Corporate headquarters in Colorado. Additionally, MillerCoors has approximately 8,400 employees.

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 4, "Segment Reporting"of the Notes for discussion of sales, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.

Available Information

We file with or furnish to the SEC reports, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These reports are available free of charge on our corporate website (www.molsoncoors.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of any materials we file with the SEC can be obtained at www.sec.gov or at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the public reference room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. The information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report.

Executive Officers

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our executive officers as ofFebruary 14, 2014:

NameAgePositionPeter Swinburn61President, Chief Executive Officer, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCKrishnan Anand56President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors InternationalPeter H. Coors67Chairman of the Board of the Company, Executive Director of Coors Brewing Company, and Chairman of the Board of MillerCoors LLCStewart Glendinning48President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors CanadaGavin Hattersley51Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCMark Hunter51President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors EuropeCelso White52Chief Supply Chain Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCSamuel D. Walker55Chief People and Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and a Director of MillerCoors LLC



