ITEM 1.    Business

Unless otherwise noted in this report, any description of "we", "us" or "our" includes Molson Coors Brewing Company ("MCBC" or the "Company"), principally a holding company, and its subsidiaries. On June 15, 2012, we completed our acquisition (the "Acquisition") of StarBev Holdings S.a.r.l. ("StarBev"), which we subsequently renamed Molson Coors Central Europe ("MCCE"), operating in Central Europe (which includes Czech Republic, Serbia, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Slovakia). Our other subsidiaries include: Molson Coors Canada ("MCC"), operating in Canada; MillerCoors LLC ("MillerCoors"), which is accounted for by us under the equity method of accounting, operating in the United States ("U.S."); Molson Coors Brewing Company (UK) Limited ("MCBC-UK"), operating in the United Kingdom ("U.K.") and the Republic of Ireland; Molson Coors International ("MCI") operating in various other countries; and our other non-operating subsidiaries. Any reference to "Coors" means the Adolph Coors Company prior to the 2005 merger with Molson Inc. (the "Merger"). Any reference to Molson Inc. or Molson means MCC prior to the Merger. Any reference to "Molson Coors" means MCBC after the Merger.

Unless otherwise indicated, information in this report is presented in U.S. dollars ("USD" or "$").

Background

We are one of the world's largest brewers and have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands, including signature brandsCoors Light,Molson Canadian,CarlingandStaropramen, as well as craft and specialty beers such asBlue Moon,Creemore Springs,CobraandDoom Bar. For more than 350 combined years, we have been brewing, innovating and delighting the world's beer drinkers. Our success depends on our ability to make our products available to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions.

Molson and Coors were founded in 1786 and 1873, respectively. Our commitment to producing the highest quality beers is a key part of our heritage and remains so to this day. Our brands are designed to appeal to a wide range of consumer tastes, styles and price preferences. Our largest markets are Canada, the U.S. and Europe.

Coors was incorporated in June 1913 under the laws of the state of Colorado. In August 2003, Coors changed its state of incorporation to the state of Delaware. In February 2005, upon completion of the Merger, Coors changed its name to Molson Coors Brewing Company.

Our Segments

In 2012, we operated the following segments: Canada, the U.S., Central Europe, the U.K., and MCI. The U.K. and Central Europe segments will be shown as a single European segment, named Molson Coors Europe, effective the beginning of fiscal year 2013. A separate operating team manages each segment and each segment manufactures, markets, and sells beer and other beverage products.

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4 "Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ("Notes") for information relating to our segments and operations, including financial and geographic information. For certain risks attendant to our foreign operations, refer to Part I—Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and the discussions regarding our Canada, Central Europe, U.K. and MCI segments.

Our Products

We have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands, including signature brandsCoors Light, Molson Canadian, CarlingandStaropramen,which are positioned to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions in a variety of markets.

Brands sold in Canada includeCoors Light,Molson Canadian,Molson Export, Molson Canadian 67, Coors Light Iced T, Molson Dry,Molson M,theRickard'sfamily of brands,Carling, Carling Black Label, Pilsner, Keystone, Creemore Springs, theGranville Islandbrands,Caffrey's, Cobra,and a number of other regional brands. We also brew or distribute under license the following brands:Heineken, Amstel Light,Murphy's, Newcastle Brown AleandStrongbowcider under license from Heineken N.V. ("Heineken"), andMiller Lite,Miller Genuine Draft,Miller Chill, Milwaukee's Best,andMilwaukee's Best Dryunder license from SABMiller plc ("SABMiller"). In 2012, we continued to brew theFoster'sbrand under license from Foster's Group Limited ("Foster's") although this license was terminated in December 2012. We are also party to a joint venture with Grupo Modelo S.A.B. de C.V. ("Modelo") that imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio, including theCorona, Coronita, Negra Modelo,andPacificobrands, across all Canadian provinces and territories. In Canada, we also have









contract brewing agreements to produce for the U.S. marketAsahiandAsahi Selectfor Asahi Breweries, Ltd. andLabatt BlueandLabatt Blue Lightfor North American Breweries, Inc.

MillerCoors sells a wide variety of brands in the U.S. In the formation of the MillerCoors joint venture, MCBC and SABMiller each assigned the United States and Puerto Rican ownership rights to its respective legacy brands to MillerCoors, but retained all ownership of these brands outside the United States and Puerto Rico. MillerCoors' flagship premium light brands areCoors Light,Miller LiteandMiller64. Brands in the domestic premium segment includeCoors BanquetandMiller Genuine Draft. Brands in the below premium segment includeMiller High Life, Keystone,Icehouse,Mickey's,Milwaukee's Best, Hamm's,andOld English 800brands. MillerCoors also brews or distributes under license theMolsonandFoster'sbrands andGeorge Killian's Irish Red. Craft and import brands, marketed and sold through Tenth and Blake, include theBlue Moonbrands,Henry Weinhard'sbrands,Leinenkugel'sbrands,Peroni Nastro Azzurro,Pilsner Urquell,Batch 19,Grolsch, Worthington's, St. Stefanusand cider brands from the Crispin Cider Company. Brands in the non-alcoholic segment includeCoors Non-AlcoholicandSharp's.

Brands sold in Central Europe includeStaropramen, Branik, Ostravar, Ozujsko, Borsodi, Kamenitza, Astika, Jelen, Niksicko, Bergenbier, NorocandApatinskoas well as other regional brands.The Central European business has licensing agreements with various other brewers through which it also brews or distributes theStella Artois, Hoegaarden, Leffe, Beck's, Lowenbrau, Spaten, LöwenweisseandBelle-Vue Kriekbrands in certain central European countries.

Brands sold in the U.K. and Ireland include:Carling,Carling Zest,Coors Light,Worthington's,White Shield, Red Shield, Caffrey's, Sharp'sDoom Bar,andBlue Moon,as well as a number of smaller regional ale brands. We also sell theGrolschbrands through a joint venture with Royal Grolsch N.V. and theCobrabrands through a joint venture called Cobra Beer Partnership Ltd., and are the exclusive distributor for several brands which are sold under license, includingCorona, Coronita, Negra Modelo,Pacifico,andSingha. Additionally, in order to be able to provide a full line of beer and other beverages to our U.K. on-premise customers, we sell "factored" brands, which are third-party beverage brands for which we provide distribution to retail, typically on a non-exclusive basis.

MCI also markets and sells several of our brands in its international markets. Brands unique to these international markets includeZima, Icebergbrands, Coors Gold,andCoors Extra.

Canada Segment

We are Canada's second-largest brewer by volume and North America's oldest beer company. Our approximate market share of the Canada beer market in2012was 39%. We brew, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of beer brands nationally. Our portfolio has leading brands in all major product and price segments. Our focus and investment is on key owned brands, includingCoors Light, Molson Canadian, Carling, Molson Dry, Molson Export, Rickard's, Pilsner, Creemore SpringsandGranville Islandand strategic distribution partnerships, including those with Heineken, Modelo and SABMiller. In2012,Coors Lighthad an approximate 14% market share and was the top selling beer brand in Canada, andMolson Canadianhad an approximate 8% market share and was the third top selling beer in Canada.

The Canada segment also includes our partnership arrangements related to the distribution of beer in Ontario, Brewers' Retail Inc. ("BRI"), and in the Western provinces, Brewers' Distributor Ltd. ("BDL"). BRI and BDL are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

Sales and Distribution

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the beer industry, particularly with regard to the pricing, mark-up, container management, sale, distribution, and advertising of beer. Distribution and the retail sale of alcohol products involve a wide range and varied degree of Canadian government control through their respective provincial liquor boards.

Province of Ontario

In Ontario, beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, at government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, at approved agents of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, or at any bar, restaurant, or tavern licensed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to sell liquor for on-premise consumption. We, together with certain other brewers, participate in the ownership of BRI in proportion to provincial market share relative to other brewers in the ownership group. Brewers may deliver directly to BRI's outlets or may choose to use BRI's distribution centers to access retail stores in Ontario, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario system and licensed establishments.

Province of Québec

In Québec, beer is distributed to retail outlets directly by each brewer or through independent agents. We are the agent for the licensed brands we distribute. The brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise









consumption. Québec retail sales for off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores as well as government operated outlets.

Province of British Columbia

In British Columbia, the government's Liquor Distribution Branch controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all alcohol products in the province. BDL, which we co-own with a competitor, manages the distribution of our products throughout British Columbia. Consumers can purchase beer at any Liquor Distribution Branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. Establishments licensed primarily for on-premise liquor sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption.

Province of Alberta

In Alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a government sponsored system in the case of U.S. sourced products. All sales of liquor in Alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and restaurants. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Alberta.

Other Provinces

Our products are distributed in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan through local liquor boards. Manitoba and Saskatchewan also have licensed private retailers. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. In the Maritime Provinces (other than Newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell our products. In Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut, government liquor commissioners manage the distribution and sale of our products.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We select global suppliers in order to procure the highest quality materials and services at the lowest prices available. We also use hedging instruments to mitigate the risk of volatility in certain commodities and foreign exchange markets.

We source barley malt from one primary provider. Hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the U.S., Europe, and New Zealand. Other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced from two main suppliers, both in North America. We do not foresee any significant risk of disruption in the supply of these agricultural products. Water used in the brewing process is from local sources in the communities where our breweries operate. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate seven breweries, strategically located throughout Canada, which brew and package all owned and certain licensed brands sold in and exported from Canada. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.

Packaging Materials

We single source glass bottles and have a committed supply through 2014. We source cans and lids from two primary providers and are currently negotiating long-term contracts with each. We currently utilize a hedging program for aluminum requirements in Canada. We do not expect any future difficulties in accessing glass bottles or aluminum cans. The distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network for returnable bottles and aluminum cans. The standard container for beer brewed in Canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle, which in2012represented a significant majority of the approximately 47% of volume sales in Canada in bottles. In2012, aluminum cans accounted for approximately 42% of our volume sales in Canada. In2012, we sold approximately 11% of our beer volume in stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased every year, and we have no long-term supply commitment. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. We do not foresee difficulties in accessing these packaging products in the near future.

Contract Manufacturing

We have an agreement with North American Breweries, Inc. to brew, package and shipLabatttrademark brands to the U.S. market through 2016.









Seasonality of Business

Consumption of beer in Canada is seasonal. In 2012, approximately 40% of our sales volume occurred during the four months from May through August, which is consistent with our historical results.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2012Canada Beer Industry Overview

The Canadian brewing industry is a mature market. It is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from regional brewers, microbrewers and certain foreign brewers, as well as our main domestic competitor. These competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling activities.

There are three major beer price segments: above premium, which includes most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light sub-segment; and value (below premium).

Since 2001, the premium beer segment in Canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value segments. From 2003 to 2008, Canada beer industry shipments annual average growth rate approximated 1%. For each of 2009 and 2010, there were slight declines, and for each of 2011 and 2012, there were approximate declines of 2% in Canada beer industry shipments.

Our Competitive Position

Our brands compete with competitor beer brands and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer segments.

The Canada brewing industry is composed principally of two major brewers, MCBC, which had approximately 39% of the market share in 2012, and Anheuser-Busch InBev ("ABI"), which had approximately 42% of the market share in 2012. In2012, the Ontario and Québec markets accounted for approximately 61% of the total beer market in Canada.

Regulation

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling, and pricing of beer (including the establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production and sale of beer. During November 2012, an increase in beer excise taxes of over 20% was announced and affected in Québec. In addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes, consumption taxes, excise taxes, and in certain instances, custom duties on imported beer. In 2012, our Canada excise taxes totaled $638.4 million or approximately $75 per hectoliter sold. Further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign governments, especially with the United States, affect the Canadian beer industry.

United States Segment

MillerCoors is the nation's second largest brewer by volume, selling approximately 29% of the total 2012 U.S. brewing industry shipments (excluding exports and U.S. shipments of imports). MillerCoors was formed on July 1, 2008 as a joint venture between MCBC and SABMiller. Each party contributed its U.S. and Puerto Rico businesses and related operating assets and certain liabilities. The percentage interests in the profits of MillerCoors are 58% for SABMiller and 42% for MCBC. Voting interests are shared 50%-50%, and MCBC and SABMiller have equal board representation within MillerCoors. MCBC and SABMiller each agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in MillerCoors for a period commencing on the date of combination and expiring on July 1, 2013, and certain rights of first refusal apply to any subsequent assignment. Our interest in MillerCoors is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

Prior to the formation of MillerCoors, MCBC produced, marketed, and sold the MCBC portfolio of brands in the United States and its territories, and its U.S. operating segment included the results of the Rocky Mountain Metal Container ("RMMC") and Rocky Mountain Bottle Container ("RMBC") joint ventures. Effective July 1, 2008, MCBC's equity investment in MillerCoors represents our U.S. operating segment.

Sales and Distribution

In the United States, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. A national network of approximately 450 independent distributors purchases MillerCoors' products and distributes them to retail accounts. In2012, approximately 18% was sold on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 82% was sold









off-premise in convenience stores, grocery stores, liquor stores and other retail outlets. MillerCoors wholly owns one distributorship, which handled less than 1% of its total volume in2012.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

MillerCoors uses the highest quality ingredients to brew its products. MillerCoors malts a portion of its production requirements, using barley purchased under yearly contracts from independent farmers located in the western United States. Other barley, malt, and cereal grains are purchased from suppliers primarily in the U.S. Hops are purchased from suppliers in the U.S., New Zealand and certain European countries. MillerCoors has water rights to provide for and to sustain brewing operations in case of a prolonged drought in the regions for which it has operations. MillerCoors does not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

There are eight major breweries/packaging facilities which produce MillerCoors products. MillerCoors importsMolsonbrands andWorthington'sfrom MCBC andPeroni Nastro Azzurro,Pilsner Urquell,Grolsch, and other import brands from SABMiller.

Packaging Materials

Over half of U.S. products sold were packaged in aluminum cans in2012. A portion of aluminum cans were purchased from RMMC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Ball Corporation ("Ball"), whose production facilities are located near the brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition to the supply agreement with RMMC, MillerCoors has a commercial supply agreement with Ball to purchase cans and ends in excess of what is supplied through RMMC; these agreements have various expiration dates. In 2011, MillerCoors signed a 10-year contract extension with Ball to extend the RMMC joint venture agreement along with the commercial can and end purchase agreements. Approximately one-third of U.S. products sold in2012were packaged in glass bottles of which a portion was provided by RMBC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc ("Owens"). The joint venture with Owens, as well as a supply agreement with Owens for the glass bottles required in excess of RMBC's production, expires in 2015. The approximate remaining 10% of U.S. production volume sold in2012was packaged in half, quarter, and one-sixth barrel stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased each year, and there is no long-term supply agreement. Crowns, labels, corrugate and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. MillerCoors does not foresee difficulties in accessing packaging products in the near future.

Contract Manufacturing

MillerCoors has an agreement to brew, package and ship products for Pabst Brewing Company through June 2020. Additionally, MillerCoors produces beer under contract for our MCI segment and SABMiller.

Seasonality of the Business

MillerCoors U.S. sales volumes are normally lowest in the winter months (first and fourth quarters) and highest in the summer months (second and third quarters).

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2012U.S. Beer Industry Overview

The beer industry in the United States is highly competitive, and the two largest brewers, ABI and MillerCoors together represented approximately 77% of the market in 2012. The formation of MillerCoors in 2008 created a stronger U.S. presence for MCBC with the scale, operational efficiency and distribution platform to compete more effectively in the U.S. market place. Growing or even maintaining market share has required significant investments in marketing. From 1998 to 2008, the U.S. beer industry shipments annual growth rate approximated 1%, compared with declines ranging from 1% to 2% in each of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011. In 2012, industry volumes improved, with estimated overall growth of 1% to 2%.

The 2009 to 2011 decline in the U.S. beer industry has been partially attributed to relatively poor economic conditions. High rates of unemployment and lower consumer confidence have negatively affected the legal age key beer drinkers' purchasing behaviors.









Our Competitive Position

The MillerCoors portfolio of beers competes with numerous above-premium, premium, and economy brands. These competing brands are produced by international, national, regional and local brewers. MillerCoors competes most directly with ABI, but also competes with imported and craft beer brands. MillerCoors is the nation's second largest brewer by volume, selling approximately 29% of the total2012U.S. brewing industry shipments (including exports and U.S. shipments of imports). This compares to ABI's estimated market share of 48%.

MillerCoors' products also compete with other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus their competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Driven by increased spirits advertising along with increased wine and spirits sales execution, sales of wine and spirits have grown faster than sales of beers in recent years, resulting in a reduction in the beer segment's lead in the overall alcohol beverage market.

Regulation

The U.S. beer business is regulated by federal, state, and local governments. These regulations govern many parts of MillerCoors' operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor relationships, sales, and environmental issues. To operate their facilities, MillerCoors must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department; Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau; the U.S. Department of Agriculture; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol regulatory agencies; and state and federal environmental agencies.

Governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. U.S. federal excise taxes on malt beverages approximated $15 per hectoliter in2012. State excise taxes are levied in specific states at varying rates.

Central Europe Segment

As a result of our Acquisition of StarBev, we are Central Europe's third largest brewer by volume with an approximate 22% market share in2012. The majority of sales are in Czech Republic, Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and Hungary. Our portfolio includes beers that have the largest share in their respective countries, such asJelenin Serbia andOzujskoin Croatia. We have beers that rank in the top four in market share in countries throughout the region, includingStaropramen, Bergenbier, KamenitzaandBorsodi.We also brew and distributeStella Artois, Beck's, LowenbrauandSpatenunder license agreements with ABI companies.

Sales and Distribution

In Central Europe, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, except for on-premise sales in Czech Republic and to certain key international accounts for which we sell directly to retailers.

Off-Premise Channel



The off-premise channel includes sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 70% of our Central Europe sales volume in 2012, of which approximately 36% consisted of sales made through wholesalers to smaller outlets (which is referred to as "traditional off-trade") and approximately 34% consisted of direct sales to large retailers (which is referred to as "modern off-trade").

On-Premise Channel

The on-premise channel accounted for approximately 30% of our Central Europe sales volume in 2012. The installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we own refrigeration units and other equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers that are used in on-premise outlets.



Distribution



Distribution activities for both the on-premise and off-premise channels are conducted primarily by third-party logistics providers, of which there are several hundred operating across the Central European business. We also conduct a small amount of secondary distribution in Czech Republic utilizing our own fleet of vehicles.









Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We have entered into long term contracts with two suppliers for most of our required malt for 2012. These contracts are with Boortmalt and Malteries Soufflet and expire in December 2015 and December 2020, respectively. The remaining 20% was acquired from various malt suppliers in the region. Hops are purchased under various contracts with German suppliers, which cover our anticipated needs through June 2014, and adjuncts are purchased under various contracts with local producers, which cover 80% of our needs for 2013. Water used in the brewing process is sourced through water rights and supply contracts. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing required water or agricultural products.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate nine breweries in Central Europe, which brew and package all owned brands sold in Central Europe. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.

Packaging Materials

Returnable bottles represented a significant majority of the approximately 46% of bottle volume sales in Central Europe in 2012. We have contracts with two primary providers for returnable bottles. Approximately 27% of our Central Europe volume sales in 2012 consisted of products packaged in recyclable plastic containers for which we have one year agreements with various manufacturers in the region. Approximately 15% of our Central Europe volume sales in 2012 consisted of products packaged in cans, of which 95% were aluminum and 5% were steel. We have long term contracts with three providers for our required supply of cans. The remaining amount of our Central Europe volume sales in 2012 consisted of products packaged in returnable kegs. A limited number of steel kegs are purchased each year, and we are currently negotiating a long-term supply agreement for our steel keg requirements. Crowns, labels and corrugate are purchased from a small number of sources. We do not foresee difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the near future.

Seasonality of Business

In Central Europe, the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and major televised sporting events. Peak selling seasons typically occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holidays.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2012Central Europe Beer Industry Overview

The Central Europe beer market grew volume by approximately 1% in 2012, with volumes shifting from the higher margin on-premise channel to the lower margin off-premise channel. Since 2008, the off-premise market share has increased from 65% to 67% of total volume, and the on-premise market share has declined from 35% to 33%. Central Europe beer industry shipments have increased by approximately 1% in each of 2011 and 2012 after declines of approximately 10% in 2009 and approximately 5% in 2010.

Our Competitive Position

Our principal competitors are SABMiller, Heineken, and Carlsberg Group ("Carlsberg"), with estimated regional market shares in 2012 of approximately 27%, 26%, and 8%, respectively, compared to our share of 22%.

Regulation

Each country that is part of our Central Europe segment is either a member of the European Union or a current candidate to join, and, as such, there are similarities in the regulations that apply to many parts of our Central Europe segment's operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment and data protection regulations. To operate breweries and conduct our business in Central Europe, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from various governmental agencies.



Each country's government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages, and all countries, with the exception of Serbia, use similar measurements based on alcohol by volume or Plato degrees. Currently, Serbia uses a flat excise per hectoliter but is moving toward alignment with the other countries. In2012, the excise taxes for our Central Europe segment totaled $131.5 million, or approximately $17 per hectoliter.









United Kingdom Segment

We are the United Kingdom's second-largest brewer by volume, with an approximate 18% share (excluding factored products) of the U.K. beer market in 2012. Sales are primarily in England and Wales, withCarlingrepresenting more than two-thirds of our total U.K. segment beer volume. The U.K. segment consists of our production and sale of the MCBC brands in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, our joint venture arrangements for the production and distribution ofGrolschandCobrabrands in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, factored brand sales (beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us), and our Tradeteam joint venture arrangement with DHL (formerly Exel Logistics) for the distribution of products throughout the U.K. Tradeteam is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Additionally, we distribute the Modelo brands, includingCorona, pursuant to a distribution agreement with Modelo.

Sales and Distribution

In the U.K., beer is generally distributed through a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers. Most of our beer in the U.K. is sold directly to retailers. It is also common in the U.K. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). Approximately 20% of our U.K. segment net sales in2012represented factored brands. Factored brand sales are included in our net sales and cost of goods, but are not included in our reported volumes.

Generally, over the past three decades, volumes have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market.

On-Premise Channel

The on-premise channel accounted for approximately 64% of our U.K. sales volumes in2012. The on-premise channel has two sub-categories: multiple on-premise and independent on-premise. Multiple on-premise refers to those customers who own a number of pubs and restaurants and independent on-premise refers to individual owner-operators of pubs and restaurants.

In2012, approximately 47% and 53% of our on-premise volume sales were made to multiple (including national wholesalers) and independent on-premise customers, respectively. In recent years, pricing competition in the on-premise channel has intensified as the retail pub chains have consolidated. As a result, the larger pub chains have been able to negotiate lower beer prices from brewers. The installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we own equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers. This includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and counter mounts.

Similar to other U.K. brewers, we utilize loans in securing supply relationships with customers in the on-premise market. Loans are normally granted at below-market rates of interest, with the outlet purchasing beer at lower-than-average discount levels to compensate. We reclassify a portion of sales revenue to interest income to reflect the economic substance of these loans. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 1 "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes for further discussion.

Off-Premise Channel

The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 36% of our U.K. sales volume in2012. The off-premise channel includes direct sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a small number of super-store chains, placing increasing downward pressure on beer pricing.

Distribution

Distribution activities for both the on- and off-premise channels are conducted by Tradeteam, which operates a system of satellite warehouses and a transportation fleet.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We use the highest quality water, barley and hops to brew our products. During2012, we produced 100% of our required malt using U.K. sourced barley. Hops and adjuncts used in the brewing process are purchased from agricultural sources in the U.K., U.S. and on the European continent. Water used in the brewing process is sourced from various wells that have sufficient recharge capacity for assumed production. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.









Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate four breweries in the U.K which brew and package all owned brands sold in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland with the exception ofCoors Light, which is contract brewed in the Republic of Ireland. See "Contract Manufacturing" and Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.

Packaging Materials

We used kegs and casks for approximately 59% of the U.K. products sold in2012, reflecting a high percentage of product sold on-premise. Approximately 33% of our U.K. products sold in 2012 were packaged in steel cans with aluminum ends. All of our cans are purchased through a supply contract with Ball. Approximately 8% of the U.K. products sold in 2012 were packaged in glass bottles purchased through supply contracts with third-party suppliers. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from sources unique to each product. We do not foresee difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the near future.

Contract Manufacturing

We have a contract brewing and kegging agreement with Heineken for theFoster'sandKronenbourgbrands. We also have an agreement with Heineken whereby it will brew and package certain of our products for sale in the Republic of Ireland through December 2014. In addition, we have a multi-year agreement to contract brew ales for Carlsberg which began in 2011.

Seasonality of Business

In the U.K., the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major televised sporting events. Peak selling seasons occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holidays.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2012U.K. Beer Industry Overview

Sales in the U.K. beer market in2012declined by 5.1%, with on-premise sales declining 5.0% and off-premise sales decreasing 5.1%, impacted by poor summer weather and weak economic conditions. Despite a widening price differential between the on-premise (higher prices) and the off-premise (lower prices) channels, volumes in both channels declined in 2012. The recession has accelerated this downward trend. From 1997 through 2007, U.K. beer industry shipments declined at an average rate of 1% to 2% per year, compared to annual declines of approximately 4% from 2008 to2012.

While the industry has experienced a general trend away from ales and toward lagers, volume sales of premium bottled ales grew in the off-premise channel in 2012. Sales of lagers accounted for 74% of the total volume sales in the U.K. market in2012.

Our Competitive Position

Our beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders. With the exception of stout, where we do not have our own brand, we believe our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories.Carlingwas the number-one beer brand in the U.K. in 2012, andCoors Lightis one of the fastest growing major brands. We believe theCorona,CobraandGrolschbrands position us well to take advantage of the growth in more premium world beers alongside our portfolio of imported and specialty beer brands, such asSinghaandBlue Moon. In addition,Doom Baris one of the fastest growing brands in the craft segment.

Our principal competitors are Heineken, ABI, and Carlsberg, with market shares in2012of approximately 24%, 17%, and 14%, respectively, compared to our market share of 18%.

Regulation

U.K. regulations apply to many parts of our operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment, and data protection regulations. To operate our breweries and carry on business in the U.K., we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from local Licensing Justices and governmental bodies, including Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs; the Office of Fair Trading; the Data Protection Commissioner and the Environment Agency.

The U.K. government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages at varying rates depending on the type of product and its alcohol content by volume. In2012, our excise taxes totaled $904.6 million, or $108 per hectoliter. In 2010, the U.K. government announced that alcohol excise tax rates will increase at a rate of 2% above U.K. inflation annually through 2015.









Molson Coors International Segment

The objective of MCI is to grow and expand our business and brand portfolios in our non-core and emerging markets, which includes Asia, continental Europe (excluding Central Europe, as it is a part of the Central Europe segment), Mexico, Latin America and the Caribbean (excluding Puerto Rico, as it is a part of the U.S. segment).

Asia

The MCI Asia region is primarily composed of businesses in India, Japan and China. Our joint venture in India gives us a 51% share and operational control of Molson Coors Cobra India ("MC Cobra India"). MC Cobra India produces, sells and markets a beer portfolio consisting ofKing Cobra,CobraandIceberg's 9000. The results of MC Cobra India are consolidated in our financial statements. The Japan business is focused on theZima, Coors LightandModelobrands. Our China business is focused on growingCoors Lightand other brands.During the third quarter of 2012, we deconsolidated our 51% ownership in our joint venture in China, Molson Coors Si'hai ("MC Si'hai"), from our financial statements due to a loss of our ability to control the joint venture.

Europe

Our Central Europe export and license business was added to MCI as part of the Acquisition and is primarily focused onStaropramen.This includes the licensing arrangements with ABI to brew and distribute our products in Russia and Ukraine, export arrangements with Carlsberg in the U.K. and Sweden and with ABI in Germany, Canada and Italy, and other export arrangements in various other countries. Our other businesses within continental Europe are focused on growingCarling,Coors LightandCobra. These products are brewed by and exported from our U.K. breweries to portions of continental Europe. We also have various licensing agreements for the manufacturing and distribution of our products, primarily in Ukraine, Spain and Russia.

Mexico, Latin America, the Caribbean, and Other

Coors Lightis sold in Mexico through an exclusive licensing agreement with Heineken. In the Caribbean and Latin America, our products are produced under a brewing agreement with MillerCoors and are exported to and sold through agreements with independent distributors.

Corporate

Corporate includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments. The majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, insurance and risk management. Additionally, the results of our water resources and energy operations in Colorado are included in Corporate. Corporate also includes certain royalty income and administrative costs related to the management of intellectual property.

Other Information

Global Intellectual Property

We own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patent and design registrations with expiration dates through 2049 relating to beer dispensing systems, packaging and certain other innovations. We are not reliant on patent royalties for our financial success. Therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business.

Corporate Responsibility

Our corporate responsibility is integral to our business strategy. We are committed to sustainable growth while improving the impact we have on our communities, people and the environment. In 2012, we were named Global Beverage Sector Leader on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. We were listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index in 2011.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. Such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation, and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate reserves have been









provided for losses that are probable and estimable. However, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such laws. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 20 "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes under the caption "Environmental"for additional information regarding environmental matters.

Employees

We have approximately 2,700 full-time employees in our Canada segment, of which 60% are represented by trade unions. We maintain agreements with the various unions representing workers at each of our facilities. MillerCoors has approximately 8,900 employees, of which 35% are represented by unions. Additionally, we have approximately 4,300 employees in our Central Europe segment within Czech Republic, Serbia, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Slovakia and we have approximately 2,200 employees in our U.K. segment, of which 25% of the U.K. total workforce is represented by trade unions. Furthermore, we have approximately 400 employees in our MCI business in 16 countries, primarily in Asia (India, Japan and China) and within our Denver headquarters office. Finally, we have approximately 200 employees in our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado.

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4 "Segment Reporting" of the Notes for discussion of sales, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.

Available Information

Our internet website is http://www.molsoncoors.com. Through a direct link to our reports at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov, we make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. The information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report.

Executive Officers

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our executive officers as ofFebruary 15, 2013:

NameAgePositionPeter Swinburn60President, Chief Executive Officer, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCKrishnan Anand55President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors InternationalPeter H. Coors66Vice Chairman of the Board of the Company, Executive Director of Coors Brewing Company, and Chairman of the Board of MillerCoors LLCStewart Glendinning47President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors Canada and a Director of MillerCoors LLCGavin Hattersley50Chief Financial Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCMark Hunter50President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors EuropeCelso White51Chief Supply Chain OfficerSamuel D. Walker54Chief People and Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and a Director of MillerCoors LLC



