ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Unless otherwise noted in this report, any description of "we", "us" or "our" includes Molson Coors Brewing Company ("MCBC" or the "Company"), principally a holding company, and its operating and non-operating subsidiaries included within our reporting segments and Corporate. Our reporting segments include: Molson Coors Canada ("MCC" or Canada segment), operating in Canada; MillerCoors LLC ("MillerCoors" or U.S. segment), which is accounted for by us under the equity method of accounting, operating in the United States ("U.S."); Molson Coors Europe (Europe segment), operating in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Montenegro, Republic of Ireland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia and the United Kingdom ("U.K."); and Molson Coors International ("MCI"), operating in various other countries. Any reference to "Coors" means the Adolph Coors Company prior to the 2005 merger with Molson Inc. (the "Merger"). Any reference to Molson Inc. or Molson means MCC prior to the Merger. Any reference to "Molson Coors" means MCBC after the Merger.

Unless otherwise indicated, information in this report is presented in U.S. dollars ("USD" or "$").

Background

We are one of the world's largest brewers and have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands, including core brandsCarling,Coors Light,Molson CanadianandStaropramen, as well as craft and specialty beers such asBlue Moon,Creemore Springs,CobraandDoom Bar. With centuries of brewing heritage, we have been crafting high-quality, innovative products with the purpose of delighting the world's beer drinkers. Our success depends on our ability to make our products available to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions.

Molson and Coors were founded in 1786 and 1873, respectively. Our commitment to producing the highest quality beers is a key part of our heritage and remains so to this day. Our brands are designed to appeal to a wide range of consumer tastes, styles and price preferences. Our largest markets are the U.S., Canada and Europe.

Coors was incorporated in June 1913 under the laws of the state of Colorado. In October 2003, Coors merged with and into Adolph Coors Company, a Delaware corporation. In February 2005, upon completion of the Merger, Adolph Coors Company (the Delaware corporation) changed its name to Molson Coors Brewing Company.

Industry Overview

The brewing industry has significantly evolved over the years, becoming an increasingly global beer market. The industry was previously founded on local presence with modest international expansion achieved through export, license and partnership arrangements. More recently, it has become increasingly complex, as the consolidation of brewers has occurred globally, resulting in fewer major global market participants. In addition to the acquisitive element of this industry consolidation, the market continues to utilize export, license and partnership arrangements; however, these are often with the same global competitors that make up the majority of the market. This industry consolidation has resulted in a small number of large global brewers representing the majority of the worldwide beer market. At the same time, smaller local brewers within certain established markets are experiencing accelerated growth as consumers increasingly place value on locally-produced, regionally-sourced products. As the beer industry continues its evolution of consolidation and diversification of its products to meet consumer demand with broadening preferences, large global brewers are uniquely positioned to leverage the scale, depth of product portfolio and industry knowledge to continue to lead the market forward.

Pending Acquisition

During 2015, Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV’s (“ABI”) announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire SABMiller plc (“SABMiller”). The resulting transaction (“ABI/SABMiller transaction”) is expected to be finalized in the second half of 2016 subject to ABI and SABMiller shareholder approval and various global regulatory approvals. Concurrently, on November 11, 2015, we entered into a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with ABI to acquire, contingent upon the closing of the acquisition of SABMiller by ABI pursuant to the ABI/SABMiller transaction, all of SABMiller’s 58% economic interest and 50% voting interest in MillerCoors and all trademarks, contracts and other assets primarily related to theMillerbrand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico for $12.0 billion in cash, subject to downward adjustment as described in the Purchase Agreement (the “Acquisition”). Following the closing of the pending Acquisition, the Company will own 100% of the outstanding equity and voting interests of MillerCoors.











Global Competitors' Market Capitalization

We evaluate ourselves in relation to other global brewers using various metrics, including overall market capitalization, volume, net sales revenue, gross margins and net profits, as well as our position within each of our core markets, with the goal to be the first choice for our consumers and customers. To provide a perspective of the relative size of the major participants in the global brewing market, the market capitalizations of our primary global competitors, based on foreign exchange rates atDecember 31, 2015, were as follows:

Market Capitalization(In billions)Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV ("ABI")$201.0SABMiller plc ("SABMiller")$97.2Heineken N.V. ("Heineken")$49.3MCBC$17.3Carlsberg Group ("Carlsberg")$13.7

Our Products

We have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands which are positioned to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions in a variety of markets, including core brandsCarling, Coors Light, Molson Canadian,andStaropramen. We consider these our core global brands for which we continue to invest in and focus on growing globally. We believe our portfolio encompasses all segments of the beer industry with the purpose of delighting the world's beer drinkers, including premium and premium lights, economy, above premium and craft, as well as adjacencies such as ciders and other malt beverages.

Our core brands sold in Canada includeCoors LightandMolson Canadian.We also sellBelgian Moon, Carling, Carling Black Label, Coors Altitude, Coors Banquet, Creemore Springs, theGranville Islandbrands,Keystone, Mad Jack, Molson Canadian 67, Molson Canadian Cider, Molson Dry,Molson Export, Pilsner,theRickard'sfamily of brands and a number of other regional brands. Under license from Heineken, we also brew or distributeAmstel Light, Heineken,Murphy's, Newcastle Brown AleandStrongbowcider. In January 2015, we also began selling premium import brands owned by Heineken, includingDesperados, Dos Equis, Moretti, SolandTecate. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we entered into an agreement with Miller Brewing Company ("Miller"), a wholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller, for the accelerated termination of the Miller license agreement, effective March 2015, under which we had exclusive rights to distribute certain Miller brands in Canada. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 11, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets"of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ("Notes"). We also have contract brewing agreements to produce for the U.S. marketAsahi SelectandAsahi Super Dryfor Asahi Breweries, Ltd. andLabatt BlueandLabatt Blue Lightfor North American Breweries, Inc.

MillerCoors sells a wide variety of brands throughout the U.S. and Puerto Rico. In the formation of the MillerCoors joint venture, MCBC and SABMiller each assigned the U.S. and Puerto Rico ownership rights to its respective legacy brands to MillerCoors, but retained all ownership of these brands outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico. MillerCoors' core domestic brands areCoors LightandMiller Lite. MillerCoors also sells additional domestic beer brands includingCoors Banquet, Coors Peak, Hamm’s, Keystone Light, Icehouse, Mickey’s, Miller 64, Miller Fortune, Miller Genuine Draft, Miller High Life, Milwaukee’s Best, Old English 800andSteel Reserve. Craft and import brands are marketed and sold through Tenth and Blake Beer Company ("Tenth and Blake"). These include theBlue Moonbrands,Jacob Leinenkugel Brewing Companybrands and, imported under license,Grolsch, Peroni Nastro Azzurro and Pilsner Urquell.MillerCoors hard cider brands areCrispinandSmith & Forgeand its flavored malt beverages include theHenry’shard sodas andSteel Reserve AlloySeries. MillerCoors also brews or distributes under licenseGeorge Killian's Irish Redand theRedd'sbrands, as well as certain of theFoster'sandMolsonbrands.

Our core brands sold in Europe includeCarlingandStaropramen.We also sellApatinsko, Astika, Bergenbier, Blue Moon, Borsodi, Branik, Coors Light, Jelen, Kamenitza, Niksicko, Noroc, Ostravar, Ozujsko, Sharp's Doom BarandWorthington's,as well as a number of smaller regional ale brands in the U.K., Republic of Ireland and Central Europe.The European business has licensing agreements with various other brewers through which it also brews or distributesBeck's, Belle-Vue Kriekbrands,Hoegaarden, Leffe, Lowenbrau, Löwenweisse, SpatenandStella Artoisin certain Central European countries. Starting in January 2015, we acquired the rights to distributeCorona Extraand otherModelobrands throughout the Central European countries in which we operate. In 2015, we purchased theRekorderligcider brand distribution rights in the U.K. and Republic of Ireland and terminated our distribution agreement with Carlsberg whereby it held the exclusive distribution rights for the









Staropramenbrand in the U.K., which gave us the exclusive distribution rights for theStaropramenbrand in the U.K. by the end of 2015. In the U.K., we also sell theCobrabrands through the Cobra Beer Partnership Ltd. joint venture and theGrolschbrands through a joint venture with Royal Grolsch N.V., and are the exclusive distributor for several brands includingSingha. Additionally, in order to be able to provide a full line of beer and other beverages to our U.K. on-premise customers, we sell "factored" brands, which are third-party beverage brands for which we provide distribution to retail, typically on a non-exclusive basis.

Our core brands sold in our international markets as part of our MCI segment includeCarling,Coors LightandStaropramen. Other brands sold in our international markets, including brands sold under export and license agreements, includeBlue Moon, Cobra, CoronaandMolson Canadian. We also market and sell brands unique to these international markets which includeCarling Strong,Coors, Coors 1873,Coors Extra, Coors Gold, Iceberg 9000, King Cobra, Royal Brew, ThunderboltandZima.

Our Segments

In2015, we operated the following segments: Canada, the U.S., Europe and MCI. A separate operating team manages each segment and each segment manufactures, markets, and sells beer and other beverage products.

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 3, "Segment Reporting"of the Notes for information relating to our segments and operations, including financial and geographic information. For certain risks attendant to our operations, refer to Part I—Item 1A Risk Factors.

Canada Segment

We are Canada's second-largest brewer by volume and North America's oldest beer company. Our market share of the Canada beer market in2015was approximately34%. We brew, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of beer brands nationally. Our portfolio has leading brands in all major product and price segments. Our focus and investment is on Canada core brands, primarilyCoors LightandMolson Canadian, as well as other key owned brands, includingCoors Banquet, Creemore Springs, Granville Island, Molson Dry, Molson Export, PilsnerandRickard'sand strategic distribution partnerships, including those with Heineken. In2015,Coors Lighthad an approximate 12% market share and was the second largest selling beer brand in Canada, andMolson Canadianhad an approximate 6% market share and was the third largest selling beer in Canada.

The Canada segment also includes our partnership arrangements related to the distribution of beer in Ontario, Brewers' Retail Inc. ("BRI"), and in the Western provinces, Brewers' Distributor Ltd. ("BDL"). BRI and BDL are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The majority of ownership in BRI resides with MCC, Labatt Breweries of Canada LP (a subsidiary of ABI) and Sleeman Breweries Ltd. (a subsidiary of Sapporo International). BDL is jointly owned by MCC and Labatt Breweries of Canada LP.

Sales and Distribution

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the beer industry, particularly with regard to the pricing, mark-up, container management, sale, distribution and advertising of beer. Distribution and the retail sale of alcohol products involve a wide range and varied degree of Canadian government control through their respective provincial liquor boards. In2015, approximately 19% of our Canada segment beer volume was sold on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 81% was sold off-premise in convenience stores, grocery stores, liquor stores and other retail outlets.

Province of Ontario

In Ontario, beer is primarily purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, at government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, at approved agents of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, or at any bar, restaurant, or tavern licensed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to sell alcohol for on-premise consumption. The BRI retail outlets operate under The Beer Store name. Brewers may deliver directly to BRI's outlets or may choose to use BRI's distribution centers to access retail stores in Ontario, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario system and licensed establishments.

We, together with certain other brewers, have historically participated in the ownership of BRI in proportion to provincial market share relative to other brewers in the ownership group. Effective January 1, 2016, we, along with the other owners of BRI and the Province of Ontario, agreed to revise the ownership structure of BRI. The new BRI shareholder agreement (“New Shareholder Agreement”) adjusted the existing BRI ownership structure to allow all other small and large Ontario based brewers the ability to participate in the ownership of BRI. As part of this change, the board of directors of BRI has been expanded to include representation for these new ownership groups, as well as independent director representation. The new owners are subject to the same fee structure as the current owners, with the exception of smaller brewers, who have discounted









fees, as they are not required to fund certain costs associated with pension obligations. BRI will continue to operate on a break-even basis under the new ownership structure. BRI also converted all existing capital stock into a new share class, as well as created a separate new share class to facilitate new and existing brewer participation and governance. While governance and board of director participation continues to have the ability to fluctuate based on market share relative to the other owners, our equity interest has become fixed under the New Shareholder Agreement.

Province of Québec

In Québec, the distribution and sale of beer is governed by the Quebec Alcohol Corporation ("SAQ"). Beer is distributed to retail outlets directly by each brewer or through approved independent agents. We are the agent for the licensed brands we distribute. The brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise consumption. Québec retail sales for off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores, as well as government operated outlets.

Province of British Columbia

In British Columbia, the government's Liquor Distribution Branch controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all alcohol products in the province. BDL, which we co-own with ABI, manages the distribution of our products throughout British Columbia. Consumers can purchase beer at any Liquor Distribution Branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. Establishments licensed primarily for on-premise alcohol sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption.

Province of Alberta

In Alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a government sponsored system in the case of U.S. sourced products. All sales of liquor in Alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and restaurants. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Alberta.

Other Provinces

Our products are distributed in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan through local liquor boards. Manitoba and Saskatchewan also have licensed private retailers. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. In the Maritime Provinces (other than Newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell our products. In Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut, government liquor commissioners manage the distribution and sale of our products.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We select global suppliers in order to procure the highest quality materials and services at the lowest prices available. We also use hedging instruments to mitigate the risk of volatility in certain commodities and foreign exchange markets.

We source barley malt from one primary provider, from which we have a committed supply through 2016. Hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the U.S. and Europe through contracts that vary in length based on market conditions and cover our supply requirements through at least 2018. Other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced from two main suppliers, both in North America. Water used in the brewing process is from local sources in the communities where our breweries operate. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products used in our brewing process in the near term.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate seven breweries, strategically located throughout Canada. These locations brew and package all owned and certain licensed brands sold in, and exported from, Canada. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.

Packaging Materials

We single source glass bottles and have a committed supply through December 2019. We source lids and cans from two primary providers with contracts ending December 2016 and February 2017, respectively. We are currently finalizing negotiations for a contract extension through December 2023 related to the contract expiring at the end of 2016. We currently utilize a hedging program for aluminum requirements and related transportation and storage costs in Canada. The distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network for returnable bottles and aluminum cans. The standard bottle for beer brewed in Canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle and represents the vast majority of our bottle sales. Bottle sales continue to decline as we have experienced a shift in consumers' preference toward aluminum cans. This standard returnable









bottle requires significant investment behind our returnable bottle inventory and bottling equipment. Therefore, the trend away from returnable bottles could result in higher fixed cost deleverage related to these assets and an ultimate decreased need for the assets that support this packaging, which could adversely impact profitability. A limited number of kegs are purchased every year, and we have no long-term supply commitment. Crowns are currently sourced from two suppliers with contracts through February 2016 and December 2018, respectively. We are currently finalizing negotiations for a contract extension through February 2017 related to the contract expiring in February 2016. Labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product under contracts ending between January 2016 and December 2018. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing any of our required packaging materials in the near term. The following table reflects the percentage of total sales volumes (excluding imports) for each of the last five years by type of packaging material.

20152014201320122011Aluminum cans53%49%46%42%39%Bottles37%40%43%47%51%Stainless steel kegs10%11%11%11%10%

Contract Manufacturing

We have an agreement with North American Breweries, Inc. ("NAB") to brew, package and ship certainLabattbrands to the U.S. market through 2020. We also have an agreement with Asahi Breweries, Ltd. to brew and packageAsahi Super DryandAsahi Selectto the U.S. market through early 2017.

Seasonality of Business

Total industry volume in Canada is sensitive to factors such as weather, changes in demographics, consumer preferences and drinking occasions. Weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. Accordingly, consumption of beer in Canada is seasonal, with approximately 40% of industry sales volume typically occurring during the warmer months from May through August.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2015Canada Beer Industry Overview

The Canadian brewing industry is a mature market. It is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from regional brewers, microbrewers and certain foreign brewers, as well as our main domestic competitor. These competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling activities. In2015, the Ontario and Québec markets accounted for approximately 60% of the total beer market in Canada.

There are three major beer price segments: above premium, which includes craft and most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light sub-segment; and value (below premium). Since 2001, the premium beer segment in Canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value segments.

Recently, the beer industry has been weak, with declines in three of the last five years. Aging population, a stalled economy and strong competition from other alcohol beverages have been the main contributors to the declining state of the beer industry.

The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcohol beverages as a component of the overall Canadian alcohol market over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We anticipate that2015data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the recent consumer trends. Note that percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available.

20142013201220112010Beer48%48%49%50%51%Other alcohol beverages52%52%51%50%49%

Our Competitive Position

Our brands compete with competitor beer brands and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences among these other categories. Our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer segments.









The Canada brewing industry is composed principally of two major brewers, MCBC and ABI. The following table summarizes the estimated percentage share of the Canadian beer market represented by MCBC, ABI and all other brewers over the last five years. Note that the sum of the percentages below may not equal 100% due to rounding. Current year percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available.

20152014201320122011MCBC share(1)34%37%39%40%41%ABI share(1)43%43%40%41%41%Others' share23%21%20%19%18%

(1)The decrease in MCBC share in 2015 is largely driven by the loss of the Miller contract, under which we had exclusive rights to distribute certain Miller brands in Canada and was terminated effective March 2015. The decrease in MCBC share and increase in ABI share from 2013 to 2014 is primarily the result of ABI's acquisition of Grupo Modelo S.A.B. de C.V. ("Modelo") in 2013. Subsequent to the termination of Modelo Molson Imports, L.P. ("MMI"), our joint venture with Modelo in Canada, in the first quarter of 2014, the Modelo brands are now distributed by ABI in Canada.

Regulation

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling and pricing of beer (including the establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production, distribution and sale of beer. In addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes on both domestically produced and imported beer. In2015, our Canada segment excise taxes were approximately$63per hectoliter sold on a reported basis. Further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign governments, especially with the United States, affect the Canadian beer industry.

In April 2014, the Ontario Premier's Advisory Council on Government Assets (the "Council") began a review that included evaluating the beer retailing and distribution system in Ontario, for which BRI is the primary beer retail and distribution channel. In April 2015, as a result of this review and our negotiations with the Council, we, along with the other owners of BRI, agreed, in principle and subject to entry into definitive binding documents, to enter into a new beer framework agreement (the "New Framework") with the Province of Ontario. The associated Master Framework Agreement was subsequently executed by all parties on September 22, 2015, and became effective as of January 1, 2016.Refer to Part I—Item 1A, Risk Factors for risks associated with the regulatory environment in Canada.

United States Segment

MillerCoors is the second largest brewer by volume in the U.S., selling approximately26%of the total2015U.S. brewing industry shipments (excluding exports). MillerCoors was formed on July 1, 2008, as a joint venture between MCBC and SABMiller. Each party contributed its U.S. and Puerto Rico businesses and related operating assets and certain liabilities. The percentage interests in the profits of MillerCoors are 58% for SABMiller and 42% for MCBC. Voting interests are shared 50% - 50%, and MCBC and SABMiller have equal board representation within MillerCoors. Both parties to the MillerCoors joint venture are currently able to transfer their economic and voting interest, however, certain rights of first refusal will apply to any assignment of such interests. Our interest in MillerCoors is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

As noted above, during 2015, MCBC entered into a Purchase Agreement with ABI to acquire, contingent upon the closing of the acquisition of SABMiller by ABI pursuant to the ABI/SABMiller transaction, all of SABMiller’s 58% economic interest and 50% voting interest in MillerCoors and all trademarks, contracts and other assets primarily related to theMillerbrand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico for $12.0 billion in cash, subject to downward adjustment as described in the Purchase Agreement. Following the closing of the pending Acquisition, the Company will own 100% of the outstanding equity and voting interests of MillerCoors.

Prior to the formation of MillerCoors, MCBC produced, marketed, and sold the MCBC portfolio of brands in the U.S. and its territories, and its U.S. operating segment included the results of the Rocky Mountain Metal Container ("RMMC") and Rocky Mountain Bottle Company ("RMBC") joint ventures. Effective July 1, 2008, MCBC's equity investment in MillerCoors represents our U.S. operating segment.

Sales and Distribution

In the United States, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. A national network of approximately 425 independent distributors purchases MillerCoors' products and distributes









them to retail accounts. In2015, approximately 17% of MillerCoors' beer volume was sold on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 83% was sold off-premise in convenience stores, grocery stores, liquor stores and other retail outlets. MillerCoors wholly owns one distributorship, which handled less than 1% of its total volume in2015.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

MillerCoors uses the highest quality ingredients to brew its products. MillerCoors malts a portion of its production requirements, using barley purchased under yearly contracts from independent farmers located in the western United States. Other barley, malt, and cereal grains are purchased from suppliers primarily in the U.S. Hops are purchased from suppliers in the U.S., New Zealand and certain European countries. MillerCoors leases water rights, including leasing from MCBC for water usage in Colorado, to provide for and to sustain brewing operations in case of a prolonged drought in the regions for which it has operations. MillerCoors does not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products used in its brewing process in the near term.

Brewing and Container Facilities

MillerCoors currently operates ten breweries, two container operations and one cidery, which produce MillerCoors' products. In the third quarter of 2015, MillerCoors announced the planned closure of the Eden, North Carolina brewery with the closure expected to occur in the third quarter of 2016. MillerCoors importsMolsonbrands from MCBC andPeroni Nastro Azzurro,Pilsner Urquell,Grolschand other import brands from SABMiller.

Packaging Materials

Approximately 66% of U.S. products sold were packaged in aluminum cans or bottles in


. A portion of the aluminum containers were purchased from RMMC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Ball Corporation ("Ball"), whose production facilities are located near MillerCoors' brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition to the supply agreement with RMMC, MillerCoors has a supply agreement with Ball to purchase cans and ends in excess of what is supplied through RMMC. In 2011, MillerCoors signed a 10-year contract extension with Ball to extend the RMMC joint venture agreement along with the can and end purchase agreements, both of which will expire December 31, 2021. Approximately 24% of U.S. products sold in


were packaged in glass bottles, of which a portion was provided by RMBC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc. ("Owens"). In 2015, MillerCoors signed a 10-year contract extension with Owens to extend the RMBC joint venture agreement which expires July 31, 2025. MillerCoors and Owens entered into a supply agreement effective January 1, 2015, for requirements in excess of RMBC's production. Approximately 8% of U.S. production volume sold in


was packaged in half, quarter, and one-sixth barrel stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased each year, and there is no long-term supply agreement. Approximately 2% of U.S. products sold in


were in plastic bottles. Crowns, labels, corrugate and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. In recent years, we have experienced a slight shift in the allocation among different packaging types toward aluminum cans and bottles and away from glass bottles. In general, aluminum cans allow for lower packaging costs compared to other types of packaging materials. MillerCoors does not currently anticipate difficulties in accessing packaging products in the near term.

Contract Manufacturing

MillerCoors has an agreement to brew, package and ship products for Pabst Brewing Company through June 2020. Additionally, MillerCoors produces beer under contract for our Canada and MCI segments and for SABMiller.

Seasonality of the Business

Total industry volume in the U.S. is sensitive to factors such as weather, changes in demographics, consumer preferences and drinking occasions. Weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. Accordingly, consumption of beer in the U.S. is seasonal, with approximately 37% of industry sales volume typically occurring during the warmer months from May through August.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2015U.S. Beer Industry Overview

The beer industry in the United States is highly competitive, and the two largest brewers, ABI and MillerCoors together represented the majority of the market in2015. The formation of MillerCoors in 2008 created a stronger U.S. presence for MCBC with the scale, operational efficiency and distribution platform to compete more effectively in the U.S. marketplace. Growing or even maintaining market share has required significant investments in marketing. From 1998 to 2008, the U.S. beer









industry shipments annual growth rate approximated 1%, compared with declines ranging from 1% to 2% in each of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011. With ideal weather conditions, industry volumes improved slightly in 2012, growing approximately 1%. However, in 2013 the industry saw a decline of less than 1%, and in 2014, the industry grew slightly, by less than 1%. In 2015, the industry slightly declined by approximately 1%.

The overall declines in the U.S. beer industry volumes since 2009 have been partially attributed to relatively poor economic conditions. High rates of unemployment, declining labor participation rates, and lower consumer confidence have negatively affected the legal age key beer drinkers' purchasing behaviors. In addition, per capita beer consumption has declined as consumer preference shifts to higher alcohol, full calorie beers, as well as wine, spirits and other alcohol beverages. Competition from outside of the beer category continues to be a challenge for the industry.

The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcohol beverages as a component of the overall U.S. alcohol market over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We anticipate that2015data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the recent consumer trends. Note that percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available.

20142013201220112010Beer51%52%53%53%54%Other alcohol beverages49%48%47%47%46%

Our Competitive Position

The MillerCoors portfolio of beers competes with numerous above-premium, premium, and economy brands. These competing brands are produced by international, national, regional and local brewers. MillerCoors competes most directly with ABI brands, but also competes with imported and craft beer brands. The following table summarizes the estimated percentage share of the U.S. beer market represented by MillerCoors, ABI and all other brewers over the last five years. Note that current year percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available.

20152014201320122011MillerCoors share26%27%28%29%29%ABI share45%46%47%48%48%Others' share29%27%25%23%23%

MillerCoors' products also compete with other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus their competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Driven by increased spirits advertising along with increased wine and spirits sales execution, sales of wine and spirits have grown faster than sales of beer in recent years, resulting in a reduction in the beer segment's lead in the overall alcohol beverage market.

Regulation

The U.S. beer business is regulated by federal, state, and local governments. These regulations govern many parts of MillerCoors' operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor relationships, sales, and environmental issues. To operate their facilities, MillerCoors must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department; Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau; the U.S. Department of Agriculture; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol regulatory agencies; and state and federal environmental agencies.

Governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In2015, excise taxes on malt beverages were approximately$16per hectoliter sold on a reported basis. State excise taxes are levied in specific states at varying rates. Refer to Part I—Item 1A, Risk Factors for risks associated with the regulatory environment in the U.S.

Europe Segment

We are the second largest brewer by volume, on a combined basis, within the European countries in which we operate, with an approximate aggregate20%market share (excluding factored products) in2015. The majority of our European segment sales are in the U.K., Croatia, Czech Republic and Romania. Our portfolio includes beers that have the largest share in their respective countries, such asCarlingin the U.K.,Jelenin Serbia,Ozujskoin Croatia,Kamenitzain Bulgaria andNiksickoin Montenegro. We have beers that rank in the top three in market share in their respective segments throughout the region,









includingStaropramenin Czech Republic,Bergenbierin Romania andBorsodiin Hungary.We also brew and distributeBeck's, Lowenbrau, SpatenandStella Artoisunder license agreements with ABI companies, and beginning in January 2015, we distribute certain of theModelobrands throughout the Central European countries in which we operate. Additionally, our Europe segment includes our consolidated joint venture arrangements for the production and distribution ofGrolschandCobrabrands in the U.K. and Republic of Ireland and factored brand sales (beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us). In the third quarter of 2015, we purchased theRekorderligcider brand distribution rights in the U.K. and Ireland and also sold our U.K. malting facility. In the second quarter of 2015, we closed a brewery in the U.K. and terminated our distribution agreement with Carlsberg whereby it held the exclusive distribution rights for theStaropramenbrand in the U.K. As a result, we repatriated theStaropramenbrand back to the U.K. at the end of 2015.

Sales and Distribution

In Europe, beer is generally distributed through either a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers, or a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. Most of our beer in the U.K. is sold directly to retailers. We have an agreement with Tradeteam Ltd. ("Tradeteam", a subsidiary of DHL) to provide the distribution of our products throughout the U.K. through 2023. It is also common in the U.K. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies, which we refer to as factored brands, to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). Approximately 20% of our Europe segment net sales in2015represented factored brands. Factored brand sales are included in our net sales and cost of goods sold, but not included in our reported volumes.

Generally, over the years, volumes in Europe have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market.

Off-Premise Channel

In Europe, the off-premise channel includes sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 60% of our Europe sales volume in2015. The off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a small number of super-store chains, placing increasing downward pressure on beer pricing.

On-Premise Channel

The on-premise channel includes sales to pubs and restaurants. The on-premise channel accounted for approximately 40% of our Europe sales volume in2015. The installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we own refrigeration units and other equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers that are used in on-premise outlets. This includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and counter mounts.

Similar to other brewers, we utilize loans in securing supply relationships with customers in the on-premise market in the U.K. These loans can be granted at below-market rates of interest, with the outlet purchasing beer at lower-than-average discount levels to compensate. We reclassify a portion of sales revenue to interest income to reflect the economic substance of these loans. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 1, "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies"of the Notes for additional information.

Distribution

Distribution activities for both the on-premise and off-premise channels are conducted primarily by third-party logistics providers. We utilize Tradeteam for these activities in the U.K. and several hundred third-party logistics providers across our Central European operations. We also conduct a small amount of secondary distribution in Czech Republic utilizing our own fleet of vehicles.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We use the highest quality water, barley, malt and hops to brew our products. During2015, our malt requirements were sourced from both third party suppliers and owned production, using our malt-house in the U.K. In 2015, we entered into an agreement to sell our malting facility in the U.K. and, concurrent with the sale, entered into a 10-year contract with the purchaser of the facility to replace the malt that we previously produced covering 38% of our total required malt. We also have multiple agreements with various suppliers in the region to cover the remaining requirements, most of which are valid for the next 3-5 years. Hops are purchased under various contracts with suppliers in Germany, the U.S. and the U.K., which cover our requirements through 2016. Adjuncts are purchased under various contracts with local producers, which are typically crop year contracts commencing in October of each year. Water used in the brewing process is sourced from various wells and through









water rights and supply contracts. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing required water or agricultural products used in our brewing process in the near term.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate twelve breweries in Europe, which brew and package brands sold in Europe. As part of the continued strategic review of our European supply chain network, in the first quarter of 2015 we closed our brewing facility in Alton, Hampshire, U.K. and in the fourth quarter of 2015 we closed our brewery in Plovdiv, Bulgaria. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we announced the proposal and entered into a consultation process to close our Burton South brewery in the U.K. in which we will consolidate production within our recently modernized Burton North brewery. This closure is expected to be completed in 2017. See Item 2, "Properties" for additional information.

Packaging Materials

Approximately 27% of our Europe volumes sold in2015were packaged in bottles, with a significant majority in returnable bottles sourced under various agreements with third party suppliers. Kegs and casks comprised approximately 29% of volume sold in Europe in2015. Cans represent approximately 25% of our Europe volumes sold in2015. We have long term contracts with four providers for our required supply of cans. Approximately 19% of our Europe volume sold in2015consisted of products packaged in recyclable plastic containers for which we are currently negotiating agreements for our 2016 requirements with various manufacturers in the region. Crowns, labels and corrugate are purchased from sources unique to each category. We do not currently foresee future difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the near term.

Contract Manufacturing

In December 2013, we entered into an agreement with Heineken to early terminate our contract brewing and kegging agreement with the transition period ending April 30, 2015, under which we produced and packaged theFoster'sandKronenbourgbrands in the U.K. Our existing agreement with Heineken, whereby they sell, market and distributeCoors Lightin Republic of Ireland, continues through December 2019. The agreement to contract brew ales for Carlsberg terminated at the end of 2015 and was not renewed.

Seasonality of Business

In Europe, the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major televised sporting events. Weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. Accordingly, the peak selling seasons typically occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holiday season.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

2015Europe Beer Industry Overview

We estimate that the Europe beer market increased by approximately 1% in2015, driven by increased beer consumption versus last year primarily during the summer season which had especially favorable weather. Since 2010, the off-premise market share has increased in our European markets from 55% to nearly 60% of total volume, and the on-premise market share has declined from 45% to 40%. Europe beer industry retail shipments have declined by approximately 1% to 2% yearly since 2011. These market fluctuations are consistent with the fluctuations within the overall alcohol market in each of the respective years.

The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcohol beverages as a component of the overall European alcohol market, within the countries in which we have production facilities, over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We anticipate that2015data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the recent consumer trends. Note that percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available.

20142013201220112010Beer36%36%36%36%36%Other alcohol beverages64%64%64%64%64%









Our Competitive Position

Our beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders. We believe our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories.

In European countries where we operate, our primary competitors are Heineken, SABMiller, Carlsberg and ABI. The following table summarizes our estimated percentage share of the beer market within the European countries where we operate and our primary competitors over the last five years. Note that current year percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available.

20152014201320122011MCBC share20%20%20%20%20%Primary competitors' share59%59%59%60%60%Others' share21%21%21%20%20%

Regulation

Each country that is part of our Europe segment is either a member of the European Union ("EU") or a current candidate to join, with the exception of Bosnia, which is a potential candidate, and, as such, there are similarities in the regulations that apply to many parts of our Europe segment's operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment and data protection regulations. To operate breweries and conduct our business in Europe, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from various governmental agencies.



Each country's government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages. With the exception of Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia, all countries' laws on excise taxes are consistent with the directives of the EU. With the exception of Serbia, where a flat excise per hectoliter is used, all European countries use similar measurements based on either alcohol by volume or Plato degrees. In2015, the excise taxes for our Europe segment were approximately$50per hectoliter on a reported basis. Refer to Part I—Item 1A, Risk Factors for risks associated with the regulatory environment in Europe.



Molson Coors International Segment

The objective of MCI is to grow and expand our business and brand portfolio in new and existing markets, including emerging markets, outside the Canada, U.S. and Europe segments. The focus of MCI includes Latin America (including Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and South America and excluding Puerto Rico, as it is part of the U.S. segment) Asia, Europe (excluding U.K., Ireland and Central Europe, as they are a part of the Europe segment) and Australia. The MCI portfolio of beers competes within the above-premium category in most of our markets. Our principal competitors include large global brewers, as well as local brewers. As MCI's objective is to grow and expand our business, we are developing scale and building market share in the countries where we operate. Many of the markets in which we operate are considered emerging beer markets, with other brewers controlling the majority of the market share. Our beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories.

Standalone Business

Our standalone operations are in the Asia region and are based in India, Japan and China.

Our business in India consists of our joint venture which gives us a majority share and operational control of Molson Coors Cobra India as well as Mount Shivalik Breweries Ltd., which we acquired during the second quarter of 2015. Our consolidated India business produces, markets and sells a beer portfolio consisting ofThunderbolt,Iceberg 9000,Carling Strong,Cobra, King CobraandRoyal Brewin select Indian states. We own and operate three breweries in India, where we use the highest quality ingredients to brew our products, which are sourced through various contracts with local suppliers. We do not foresee any risk of significant disruption in the supply of these raw materials or brewing inputs in the near term.

In Japan our focus is on the marketing and selling of theBlue Moon, Coors Light, Coors 1873andZimabrands. We also have a contract with ABI to sell and distribute theModelobrands. These brands are imported into Japan and are sold through independent wholesalers to both the on-premise and off-premise channels.

Our China business sells theCoorsfamily of brands. During the second quarter of 2015, we announced our decision to substantially restructure our China business which we have transitioned to a distribution model.









Export Business

Our export business focuses on expanding the reach of our international brands which are exported from our breweries in the U.S., U.K. and Czech Republic. The brands sold includeBlue Moon, Carling, Cobra, Coors 1873, Coors LightandStaropramen.



In Latin America, our products, primarilyCoors Light,Coors 1873andBlue Moon, are sold through agreements with independent distributors. We also sell our brands, primarilyStaropramen,Coors LightandCarlingin several countries in Europe.

License Business

Our license business builds long term partnerships with leading global brewers to market and grow our international brands in markets which typically have a greater barrier to entry. This business includes licensing arrangements with ABI to brew and distributeStaropramenin Russia and Ukraine and an exclusive licensing agreement with Heineken to brew and distributeCoors Lightin Mexico. We also have various licensing agreements for the manufacturing and distribution ofCarlingprimarily in Spain, Russia and Ukraine. Finally, we also have licensing agreements for the manufacturing and distribution ofCoorsandBlue Moonin Australia andCoors LightandCoors 1873in Chile, Colombia and Paraguay.

Corporate

Corporate includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments. The majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, tax, internal audit, management of intellectual property, insurance and risk management. Additionally, the results of our water resources and energy operations in Colorado are included in Corporate.

Other Information

Global Intellectual Property

We own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patent and design registrations with expiration dates through 2038 relating to beer dispensing systems, packaging and certain other innovations. We are not reliant on patent royalties for our financial success. Therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business.

Corporate Responsibility

Corporate responsibility, orOur Beer Print, is integral to our business strategy. We are committed to growing our business the right way while improving the impact we have on our communities, our people and the environment. Since 2012 we have been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, and were named Beverage Sector Leader in 2012 and 2013. We have retained a position on the World Index since 2012, for 4 consecutive years.

In 2012, Molson Coors built on long-standing efforts to reduce harmful drinking by becoming a signatory of the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers’ Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking (www.producerscommitments.org). In support of the Commitments we have a robust plan to ensure support across the business, with particular emphasis on our commercial activity through a Commercial Integrity Policy incorporating the recently launched International Alliance for Responsible Drinking Digital Guiding Principles.

Our approach to improvingOur Beer Printwithin our brewing operations is outlined in our 2020 Sustainability Strategy found on our website at www.molsoncoors.com. Launched in 2013, our 2020 Sustainability Strategy integrates how we manage energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water and solid waste and sets out how we intend to meet our 2020 ambitions. The cornerstone of our 2020 Sustainability Strategy is a commitment to invest in waste water treatment and generate clean energy from this waste stream. These investments will alleviate the impact of our operations on municipal water treatment resources, reduce our reliance on fossil fuels and save greenhouse gas emissions.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. Such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation, and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material in any









one year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and estimable. However, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such laws. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 18, "Commitments and Contingencies"of the Notes under the caption "Environmental"for additional information regarding environmental matters.

Employees

As of the end of2015, we had approximately 9,100 full-time employees within MCBC globally, including 6,000 within our Europe segment, 2,400 within our Canada segment, 500 within our MCI segment, and 200 within our Corporate headquarters in Colorado. Additionally, as ofDecember 31, 2015, MillerCoors had approximately 8,400 full-time employees. There have been no significant changes in our number of employees since December 31, 2015.

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,Note 3, "Segment Reporting"of the Notes for discussion of sales, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.

Available Information

We file with, or furnish to, the SEC reports, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports are available free of charge on our corporate website (www.molsoncoors.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of any materials we file with the SEC can be obtained at www.sec.gov or at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the public reference room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. The information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report.

Executive Officers

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our executive officers as ofFebruary 11, 2016:

NameAgePositionPeter H. Coors69Vice Chairman of the Board, Chairman of Coors Brewing Company and Chairman of the Board of MillerCoors LLCMark R. Hunter53President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCDavid A. Heede54Interim Chief Financial Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCKrishnan Anand58President and Chief Executive Officer, Molson Coors InternationalSimon J. Cox48President and Chief Executive Officer, Molson Coors EuropeStewart F. Glendinning50President and Chief Executive Officer, Molson Coors CanadaSamuel D. Walker57Chief People and Legal Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCCelso L. White54Chief Supply Chain Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCBrenda Davis56Chief Integration Officer



