ITEM 1.    Business

Unless otherwise noted in this report, any description of "we", "us" or "our" includes Molson Coors Brewing Company ("MCBC" or the
"Company"), principally a holding company, and its operating subsidiaries: Coors Brewing Company ("CBC"), operating in the United States ("U.S.") until June 30, 2008 when MCBC and
SABMiller plc ("SABMiller") combined the U.S. and Puerto Rico operations of their respective subsidiaries, CBC and Miller Brewing Company ("Miller"), and the results and financial position of
U.S. operations, which had historically comprised substantially all of our U.S. reporting segment were, in all material respects, deconsolidated from MCBC prospectively upon formation of
MillerCoors LLC ("MillerCoors"); Molson Coors Brewing Company (UK) Limited ("MCBC-UK"), formerly referred to as Coors Brewers Limited
("CBL"), operating in the United Kingdom ("U.K."); Molson Coors Canada ("MCC"), formerly referred to as Molson Canada ("Molson"), operating in Canada; and our other corporate entities.
Any reference to "Coors" means the Adolph Coors Company prior to the 2005 merger with Molson Inc. (the "Merger"). Any reference to Molson Inc. means MCC prior to the Merger. Any
reference to "Molson Coors" means MCBC after the Merger.

Unless
otherwise indicated, information in this report is presented in U.S. dollars ("USD" or "$").

(a)   General Development of Business

Molson was founded in 1786, and Coors was founded in 1873. Since each company was founded, we have been committed to producing the highest quality beers. Our
brands are designed to appeal to a wide range of consumer tastes, styles and price preferences. Our largest markets are Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom.

Coors
was incorporated in June 1913 under the laws of the State of Colorado. In August 2003, Coors changed its state of incorporation to the State of Delaware. During
February 2005 upon completion of the Merger, Coors changed its name to Molson Coors Brewing Company.

2009 Developments

Brewers' Retail Inc. ("BRI") is a joint venture beer distribution and retail network for the Ontario region of Canada, owned by
MCC, and two other brewers. Due to a change in ownership level of BRI, we deconsolidated this entity from our financial statements as of March 1, 2009 and began to account for it prospectively
under the equity method of accounting. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6 "VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES" to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion.

During
the second quarter of 2009, MCBC-UK purchased 50.1% of Cobra Beer Partnership, Ltd ("CBPL"), which owns the United Kingdom and
world-wide rights to the Cobra beer brand (with the exception of the Indian sub-continent area). The addition of the Cobra beer brands broadens our specialty beer portfolio and
provides access to additional on-premise outlets (primarily ethnic restaurants) in the U.K. We consolidate the results and financial position of CBPL and it is reported within our U.K.
operating segment. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6 "VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further discussion.

During
the fourth quarter of 2009, MCC's subsidiary Creemore Springs entered into an agreement to acquire Granville Island Brewing Company Ltd. and Mainland Beverage
Distribution Ltd. (collectively, "Granville Island"). Granville Island is an established craft brewer located in Vancouver, Canada, with distribution throughout the Canadian province of British
Columbia. This acquisition expands on our super premium portfolio in Canada. We expect to close on this acquisition in the









second
quarter of 2010. Due to certain voting and economic rights, we consolidate the results and financial position of Granville Island and it is reported within our Canada operating segment. See
Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 6 "VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

During
the fourth quarter of 2009, MCC sold its 19.9% indirect common ownership interest in the Montréal Canadiens professional hockey team, the Gillett Entertainment
Group and certain related assets (collectively, the "Club") to CH Group Limited Partnership / Societe en commandite Group CH (formerly Racine Limited Partnership / Societe
en commandite Racine) ("CH Group"), in connection with CH Group's purchase of the 80.1% controlling interest in the Club from an independent third party. The general partner of
CH Group and one of its limited partners are entities affiliated with Andrew and Geoff Molson who are both members of the Board of Directors of the Company. MCC received
CAD $56.3 million (USD $53.3 million) for its interest in the Club and recorded a gain of CAD $48.7 million (USD $46.0 million) in 2009, which
includes amounts held in escrow that we anticipate receiving during 2010. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4 "EQUITY INVESTMENTS"
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

(b)   Financial Information About Segments

MCBC operates the following business segments: Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Molson Coors International ("MCI"), formerly referred to as
Global Brand and Market Development (Global Markets). Our MCI results are reported with our Corporate group's results. A separate operating team manages each segment, and each segment manufactures,
markets and sells beer and other beverage products.

See
Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 3 "SEGMENT REPORTING" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial
information relating to our segments and operations, including geographic information.

(c)   Narrative Description of Business

Our financial sales volume from continuing operations totaled 18.8 million hectoliters in 2009, 34.8 million hectoliters in 2008, and
49.0 million hectoliters in 2007. The decrease in sales volume between 2007 and 2008 and between 2008 and 2009 is a result of the formation of MillerCoors on July 1, 2008. The fiscal
years ended December 26, 2009, December 28, 2008, and December 30, 2007, were 52 week periods.

See
the Executive Summary in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of our volume reporting policy.

No
single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated or segmented sales in 2009, 2008, or 2007.

Our Products

MCBC has a diverse portfolio of more than 65 strategic and partner brands, including signature brandsCoors
Light, Molson CanadianandCarling,which are positioned to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions.

Brands
sold in Canada includeCoors Light,Canadian,Export,
Molson Canadian 67, Molson Dry,Molson M, Creemore,Rickard's Redand otherRickard'sbrands,Carling, Pilsnerand a number of other regional brands. We also brew or
distribute under license the following brands:Amstel Lightunder license from Amstel Brouwerij B.V.,HeinekenandMurphy'sunder license from Heineken Brouwerijen B.V.,AsahiandAsahi Selectunder license from Asahi Beer
U.S.A. Inc. and Asahi
Breweries, Ltd.,Miller Lite,Miller Genuine Draft,Miller Chill,
Milwaukee's BestandMilwaukee's Best Dry











under
license from Miller, a subsidiary of SABMiller, andFoster'sunder license from Foster's Group Limited. Through a joint venture agreement with
Grupo Modelo, we also import, distribute and market the Modelo beer brand portfolio, including theCorona, Coronita, Negra ModeloandPacificobrands,
across all Canadian provinces and territories.

MillerCoors
sells a wide variety of brands in the U.S. Its flagship premium light brands areCoors LightandMiller Lite. Brands in the domestic premium segment
includeCoors Banquet,Miller Genuine DraftandMGD 64. Brands in the domestic super premium segment includeMiller ChillandSparks. Brands in the below premium segment includeMiller High
Life,Miller High Life Light, Keystone Light,Icehouse,Mickey's,Milwaukee's Best, Milwaukee's Best LightandOld English
800. Craft and import brands include theBlue Moonbrands,Henry Weinhard's,George Killian's Irish
Red, theLeinenkugel'sbrands, theMolsonbrands,Foster's,Peroni Nastro Azzurro,Pilsner UrquellandGrolsch. Brands in the non-alcoholic segment includeCoors Non-AlcoholicandSharp's. MCBC assigned the United States and Puerto Rican ownership
rights to the legacy Coors brands, includingCoors Light,Coors Banquet,Keystone Light, and theBlue Moonbrands, to MillerCoors. We retained all ownership of these brands
outside the United States and Puerto Rico. MillerCoors licenses the right to brew and sellGeorge Killian's Irish Red. MCBC sells theMolsonbrands to
MillerCoors through related party transactions.

Brands
sold in the U.K. include:Carling,C2,Coors
Light,Worthington's,White Shield, Caffrey's,Kasteel
Cru,andBlue Moon,as well as a number of smaller regional ale brands. We also sell theGrolschbrands in the United Kingdom
through a joint venture with Royal Grolsch N.V. and theCobrabrands in the United Kingdom through a joint venture called Cobra Beer Partnership Ltd., and are the exclusive distributor for
several
brands which are sold under license, includingSol, Dos Equis, Zatec, SinghaandMagners Draught Cider.
Additionally, in order to be able to provide a full line of beer and other beverages to our on-premise customers, we sell factored brands in our U.K. segment, which are third party brands
for which we provide distribution to retail, typically on a non-exclusive basis. We also have a contract brewing and kegging agreement with Scottish & Newcastle U.K. Ltd. for
theFostersandKronenbourgbrands.

MCBC
also markets and sells several of its brands in various international markets. Brands unique to various international markets includeZima, Coors
Gold,andCoors Extra.

Canada Segment

MCC is Canada's second largest brewer by volume and North America's oldest beer company. MCC has an approximate 40% market share in
Canada. MCC brews, markets, sells and nationally distributes a wide variety of beer brands. MCC's portfolio has leading brands in all major product and price segments. MCC's focus and investment is on
key owned brands (Coors Light, Canadian, Molson Dry, Molson Export and Rickard's) and key strategic distribution partnerships (including Heineken,
Corona and Miller).Coors Lightcurrently has a 14% market share and is among the top selling beer brands in Canada andCanadiancurrently has an 8% market
share and is the third-largest selling beer in Canada.

The
Canada segment also includes our partnership arrangements related to the distribution of beer in Ontario, BRI, and the Western provinces, Brewers' Distributor Ltd.
("BDL"). BRI was consolidated in our financial statements until deconsolidation as of March 1, 2009. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data, Note 6 "VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.









Sales and Distribution

Canada

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the beer industry, particularly with regard to the pricing, mark-up, container
management, sale, distribution, and advertising of beer. Distribution and the retail sale of alcohol products involves a wide range and varied degree of Canadian government control through their
respective provincial liquor boards.

Province of Ontario

In Ontario, beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, at government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor
Control Board of Ontario, approved agents of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, or at any bar, restaurant, or tavern licensed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to sell liquor for
on-premise consumption. MCC, together with certain other brewers, participates in the ownership of BRI in proportion to its provincial market share relative to other brewers in the
ownership group. Ontario brewers may deliver directly to BRI's outlets or may choose to use BRI's distribution centers to access retail stores in Ontario, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario system
and licensed establishments.

Province of Québec

In Québec, beer is distributed directly by each brewer or through independent agents. MCC is the agent for the licensed
brands it distributes. The brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise consumption. Québec retail sales for
off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores as well as government operated outlets.

Province of British Columbia

In British Columbia, the government's Liquor Distribution Branch currently controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all
alcohol products in the province. BDL which MCC co-owns with a competitor, manages the distribution of MCC's products throughout British Columbia. Consumers can purchase beer at any Liquor
Distribution Branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed wine or beer retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. Establishments licensed
primarily for on-premise liquor sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption.

Province of Alberta

In Alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a government sponsored
system in the case of U.S. sourced products. All sales of liquor in Alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and
restaurants. BDL manages the distribution of MCC's products in Alberta.

Other Provinces

MCC's products are distributed in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan through local liquor boards. Manitoba and Saskatchewan
also have licensed private retailers. BDL manages the distribution of MCC's products in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. In the
Maritime Provinces (other than Newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell MCC's products. Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavat manage distribution and sell through government liquor
commissioners.









Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

MCC selects global suppliers in order to procure the highest quality materials and services at the lowest prices available. MCC also
uses hedging instruments to mitigate the risk of volatility in certain commodities and foreign exchange markets.

MCC
sources barley malt from two primary providers, with commitments through 2012. Hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the U.S., Europe, and New Zealand, with
commitments through 2010. Other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced from two main suppliers, both in North America. We do not foresee any significant risk of disruption in the supply of these
agricultural products. Water used in the brewing process is from local sources in the communities where our breweries operate.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

MCC has six breweries, strategically located throughout Canada, which brew, bottle, package, market and distribute all owned and
certain licensed brands sold in and exported from Canada. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.

Packaging Materials

MCC single sources glass bottles and aluminum cans and has a committed supply through 2010 and 2011, respectively. Availability of
glass bottles and aluminum cans has not been an issue, and MCC does not expect any difficulties in accessing them. The distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network
for returnable bottles and aluminum cans. The standard container for beer brewed in Canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle, which represents a majority of the approximately 63% of bottle volume sales
in Canada. Aluminum cans account for approximately 28% of volume sales in Canada. MCC sells approximately 9% of its beer volume in stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased every
year, and there is no long-term supply commitment. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from concentrated sources unique to each product. MCC does not foresee
difficulties in accessing these products in the near future.

Seasonality of Business

Total industry volume in Canada is sensitive to factors such as weather, changes in demographics, and consumer preferences. Consumption
of beer in Canada is also seasonal with approximately 40% of industry sales volume occurring during the four months from May through August.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

Industry and competitive information in this section and elsewhere in this report was compiled from various industry sources. While
management believes that these sources are reliable, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of data and estimates obtained from these sources.

2009 Canada Beer Industry Overview

The Canadian brewing industry is a mature market. It is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from
regional brewers, microbrewers and certain
foreign brewers, as well as Molson's main domestic competitor. These competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling activities.









There
are three major beer segments based on price: above premium, which includes most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light
sub-segment; and value.

Since
2001, the premium beer category in Canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value (below premium) categories. In 2009, aggressive discounting in the industry has
reduced the price gap between the premium and value segments during key selling periods, resulting in a reduction in the size of the value segment, to the benefit of the premium and super premium
categories. For each of the five years ended December 31, 2007, Canada beer industry shipments annual average growth rate approximated 1%. 2008 Canada beer industry shipments were consistent
with this trend, while 2009 Canada beer industry shipments declined at a rate of less than 1%.

Our Competitive Position

The Canada brewing industry is comprised principally of two major brewers, MCC and Labatt, whose combined market share is approximately
84% of beer sold in Canada. The Ontario and Québec markets account for approximately 62% of the total beer market in Canada.

Our
malt beverages also compete with other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these
other categories.

United States Segment

Before the formation of MillerCoors, CBC produced, marketed, and sold the Coors portfolio of brands in the United States and its
territories, and included the results of the
Rocky Mountain Metal Container ("RMMC") and Rocky Mountain Bottle Container ("RMBC") joint ventures. The U.S. segment also included sales of MCC brand products sold in the United States. Effective
July 1, 2008, MCBC's equity investment in MillerCoors represents our U.S. operating segment.

MillerCoors
is currently the second-largest brewer by volume in the United States, with a market share of nearly 30%. MillerCoors produces, markets, and sells a broad portfolio of brands
in the United States and Puerto Rico.

Sales and Distribution

In the United States, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors
and retailers. A national network of approximately 490 independent distributors purchases MillerCoors' products and distributes them to retail accounts. Approximately 19% of our product is sold
on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 81% is sold off-premise in liquor stores, convenience stores, grocery stores, and other retail outlets. MillerCoors wholly
owns a distributorship, which handled less than 1% of their total volume in 2009.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

MillerCoors uses the highest quality ingredients to brew its products. MillerCoors malts a portion of its production requirements,
using barley purchased under yearly contracts from independent farmers located in the western United States. Other barley, malt, and cereal grains are purchased from suppliers primarily in the United
States. Hops are purchased from suppliers in the United States and New Zealand and certain European countries. MillerCoors has water rights to provide for and to sustain brewing operations in case of
a prolonged drought in the regions for which they have operations.









Brewing and Packaging Facilities

There are eight major breweries/packaging facilities which provide MillerCoors products to distributors across the United States and
Puerto Rico. MillerCoors imports MCC brands andPeroni, Pilsner Urquell, Grolsch, and other smaller import brands from SABMiller.

Packaging Materials

Over half of U.S. products sold were packaged in aluminum cans in 2009. A portion of aluminum cans were purchased from RMMC, a joint
venture with Ball Corporation ("Ball"), whose production facility is located near the brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition to the supply agreement with RMMC, MillerCoors has a commercial supply
agreement with Ball to purchase cans and ends in excess of what is supplied through RMMC; these agreements have various expiration dates. The RMMC joint venture agreement is scheduled to expire in
2011. Approximately one-third of U.S. products in 2009 were packaged in glass bottles of which a portion was provided by RMBC, a joint venture with Owens-Brockway Glass
Container, Inc. ("Owens"). The joint venture with Owens, as well as a supply agreement with Owens for the glass bottles required in excess of RMBC's production, expires in 2015. The approximate
remaining 10% of U.S. production volume sold in 2009 was packaged in quarter, half, and one-sixth barrel stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased each year, and there
is no long-term supply agreement. Crowns, labels, corrugate and paperboard are purchased from concentrated sources unique to each product. MillerCoors does not foresee difficulties in
accessing packaging products in the future.

Contract Manufacturing

MillerCoors has an agreement with S&P Company whereby MillerCoors will brew, package and ship products for Pabst Brewing Company
through March 2014. Additionally, MillerCoors produces beer under contract for our MCI business, Miller Brewing International and Foster's LLC.

Seasonality of the Business

MillerCoors U.S. sales volumes are normally lowest in the winter months (first and fourth quarters) and highest in the summer months
(second and third quarters).

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

Industry and competitive information in this section and elsewhere in this report was compiled from various industry sources and
MillerCoors distributors. While management believes that these sources are reliable, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of data and estimates obtained from these sources.

2009 U.S. Beer Industry Overview

The beer industry in the United States is highly competitive, and the two largest brewers, of which MillerCoors is the smaller,
represent approximately 80% of the market. The intention of the combination of Miller and Coors in mid-2008 was to create a stronger U.S. brewer with the scale, operational efficiency and
distribution platform to compete more effectively against larger brewers, both domestic and global. Growing or even maintaining market share has required increased investments in marketing. For each
of the ten years ended December 31, 2007, the U.S. beer industry shipments annual growth rate approximated 1%, compared with growth of less than 1% in 2008 and a decline of approximately 2% in
2009.









Our Competitive Position

The MillerCoors portfolio of beers competes with numerous above premium, premium, low-calorie, popular priced,
non-alcoholic, and imported brands. These competing brands are produced by international, national, regional and local brewers. MillerCoors competes most directly with Anheuser-Busch Inbev
("A-B Inbev"), but also competes with imported and craft beer brands. MillerCoors is the nation's second- largest brewer, selling nearly 30% of the total 2009 U.S. brewing industry
shipments (including exports and U.S. shipments of imports). This compares to A-B Inbev's market share of 49%.

MillerCoors'
products also compete with other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these
other categories. Sales of wine and spirits have grown faster than sales of beer in recent years, resulting in a reduction in the beer segment's lead in the overall alcohol beverage market.

United Kingdom Segment

MCBC-UK is the United Kingdom's third-largest beer company, with unit volume sales of approximately 9.5 million
hectoliters in 2009. MCBC-UK has an approximate 19% share of the U.K. beer market, Western Europe's second-largest market. Sales are primarily in England and Wales, withCarling(a mainstream lager)
representing more than three-fourths of MCBC-UK's total beer volume. The U.K. segment consists of our
production and sale of the MCBC-UK brands in the U.K., our joint venture arrangement for the production and distribution ofGrolschbrands
in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, our joint venture arrangement for the production and distribution of theCobrabrands in the U.K., factored
brand sales (beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us), and our Tradeteam joint venture arrangement with DHL (formerly Exel Logistics) for the distribution of
products throughout Great Britain.

Sales and Distribution

In the U.K., beer is generally distributed through a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers. Most of our
beer in the U.K. is sold directly to retailers. It is also common in the U.K. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies ("factored"
brands) to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). Approximately 33% of MCBC-UK's net sales value in 2009 was
composed of factored brands. Factored brand sales are included in our net sales and cost of goods sold when sold but are not included in the reported volumes.

Generally,
over the past three decades, volumes have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower
margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market.

On-Premise Market Channel

The on-premise channel accounted for approximately 64% of our U.K. sales volumes in 2009. The on-premise
channel has two sub-categories: multiple on-premise and free on-premise. Multiple on-premise refers to those customers who own a number of pubs and
restaurants and free on-premise refers to individual owner-operators of pubs and restaurants. In 2009, MCBC-UK sold approximately 61% and 39% of its on-premise
volume to multiple and free on-premise customers, respectively. In recent years, pricing competition in the on-premise channel has intensified as the retail pub chains have
consolidated. As a result, the larger pub chains have been able to negotiate lower beer prices from brewers. A national smoking ban was enacted in 2007 affecting all pubs and restaurants in the U.K.,
which has had an unfavorable impact on beer volume sold in this channel.









The
installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer in the U.K. Accordingly,
MCBC-UK owns equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers. This includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and countermounts.

Similar
to other U.K. brewers, MCBC-UK has traditionally used loans to secure supply relationships with customers in the on-premise market. Loans are normally
granted at below-market rates of interest, with the outlet purchasing beer at lower-than-average discount levels to compensate. We reclassify a portion of sales revenue to interest income
to reflect the economic substance of these loans.

Off-Premise Market Channel

The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 36% of our U.K. sales volume in 2009. The off-premise
market includes sales to supermarket chains, convenience stores, liquor store chains, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a
small number of super-store chains, placing increasing downward pressure on pricing.

Distribution

Distribution activities for MCBC-UK are conducted by Tradeteam, which operates a system of satellite warehouses and a
transportation fleet.

Manufacturing, Production and Packaging

Brewing Raw Materials

We use high quality water, barley and hops to brew our products. During 2009, MCBC-UK produced 100% of its required malt
using barley purchased from sources in the U.K. Hops and adjunct starches used in the brewing process are purchased from agricultural sources in the United Kingdom and on the European continent.
MCBC-UK does not anticipate difficulties in accessing these agricultural products going forward, although prices have continued to rise over the past year.

We
ensure high quality water by obtaining our water from private water sources chosen for their purity. We regularly test to ensure their purity and to confirm that we meet all U.K.
private water regulations. Public water supplies are used as back-up to the private supplies in some breweries, and these are again tested regularly.

Brewing and Packaging Facilities

We operate three breweries in the U.K. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail. Product sold in Ireland is produced by
contract brewers.

Packaging Materials

We used kegs and casks for approximately 56% of our U.K. products in 2009, reflecting a high percentage of product sold
on-premise. Approximately 35% of our U.K. products were packaged in steel cans with aluminum ends in 2009. All of our cans are purchased through a supply contract with Ball. Approximately
5% of our U.K. products are packaged in glass bottles purchased through supply contracts with third-party suppliers. The remaining 4% of our U.K. sales are shipped in bulk tanker for other brewers to
package. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from concentrated sources unique to each product. MCBC-UK does not foresee difficulties in accessing these or other
packaging materials in the foreseeable future.









Contract Manufacturing

MCBC-UK has an agreement with Heineken UK whereby it will brew and package certain products in Ireland through
December 2011.

Seasonality of Business

In the U.K., the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major
televised sporting events. Peak selling seasons occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holidays.

Known Trends and Competitive Conditions

Industry and competitive information in this section and elsewhere in this report was compiled from various industry sources. While
management believes that these sources are reliable, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of data and estimates obtained from these sources.

2009 U.K. Beer Industry Overview

The U.K. beer consumption has seen several years of decline driven by a number of factors, including changes in consumers' lifestyles,
falling discretionary income and pressure from other drinks categories, notably wine. The beer market in 2009 declined by 3.8%, with the On Trade 5% down and Off Trade 2.4% down, impacted by poor
summer weather and worsening economic conditions. A widening price differential between the on-premise (higher prices) and the off-premise (lower prices) has tended to benefit
off-premise sales. For each of the ten years ended December 31, 2007, UK beer industry shipments declined at an average rate of between 1% and 2%, compared with declines of
approximately 6% and 4% in 2008 and 2009, respectively.

The
industry has also experienced a steady trend away from ales and toward lagers. Sales of lagers accounted for 74% of the U.K. market in 2009.

Our Competitive Position

Our beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and
ciders. With the exception of stout, where we do not have our own brand, our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories. Our strength in the growing lager category
withCarling,Grolsch,Coors LightandCobrapositions us
well to take advantage of the continuing trend toward lagers. Our portfolio has been strengthened by the introduction of a range of
imported and specialty beer brands, such asSinghaandCobra. Our principal competitors are
Scottish & Newcastle U.K. Ltd., Inbev U.K. Ltd., and Carlsberg U.K. Ltd. with market shares of approximately 26%, 20%, and 13%, respectively compared to our share of 19%
(excluding factored brands).

Molson Coors International ("MCI") and Corporate

MCI was formerly known and referred to within our financial statements as Global Brands and Market Development ("Global Markets").

The
objectives of MCI are to grow and expand our business and brand portfolios in developing markets. Our current businesses in Asia, continental Europe, Mexico and the Caribbean
(excluding Puerto Rico) are included in MCI and combined with our corporate business activities for reporting purposes. Corporate also includes corporate interest and certain other general and
administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments.

Asia

Our Japanese business is currently focused on theZimaandCoorsbrands. Our business in
China is principally focused onCoors Light. Product sold in Japan is
contract brewed by SAB Miller Vietnam











and
product sold in China is contract brewed by a third party in China. We have a license partnership in Philippines and plan to re-enter Vietnam with a local commercial partner and
contract brewer. The small amount of remaining volume sold in Asia is exported from the U.S. under a brewing agreement with MillerCoors.

Europe

Our business within continental Europe is focused on growingCoors Light. Key countries
include Spain and Scandinavia. We continue to sellCarling,CaffreysandWorthingtonsto UK tourist
destinations including Spain, Greece and Cyprus. The Europe business also supplies beer to UK Military operations globally.
All products are brewed by and exported from our MCBC-UK breweries through agreements with independent distributors.

Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean

Coors Light is sold in Mexico through an exclusive licensing agreement with Cerveceria Cuauhtemoc Moctezuma, S.A. de C.V.
("CCM"), a subsidiary of FEMSA Cerveza. In addition, our products sold in a number of Caribbean islands and the Panama market are produced under a brewing agreement by MillerCoors and are exported to
and sold through agreements with independent distributors.

Corporate

Corporate includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments.
The majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, accounting, treasury, insurance and risk management. Corporate
also includes certain royalty income and administrative costs related to the management of intellectual property.

Other Information

Global Intellectual Property

We own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patents on
innovative processes related to product formula, can making, can decorating, and certain other technical operations. These patents have expiration dates through 2021. We are not reliant on royalties
or other revenue from third parties for our financial success. Therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business.

Regulation

Canada

In Canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling, and pricing of beer (including the
establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production and sale of beer. In 2009, Canada excise taxes totaled $539.5 million or $61.73 per
hectoliter sold. In addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes, consumption taxes, excise
taxes, and in certain instances, custom duties on imported beer. Further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign
governments, especially with the United States, affect the Canadian beer industry.

United States

In the U.S., the beer business is regulated by federal, state, and local governments. These regulations govern many parts of
MillerCoors operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising,











transportation,
distributor relationships, sales, and environmental issues. To operate their facilities, they must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various
governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department; Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau; the U.S. Department of Agriculture; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol
regulatory agencies; and state and federal environmental agencies.

Governmental
entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. U.S. federal excise taxes on malt beverages currently approximate
$15 per hectoliter. State excise taxes are levied at varying rates with an average rate of approximately $2 per hectoliter in 2009.

United Kingdom

In the U.K., regulations apply to many parts of our operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging,
marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment, and data protection regulations. To operate our breweries and carry on business in the U.K., we must obtain and maintain
numerous permits and licenses from local Licensing Justices and governmental bodies, including Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs ("HMRC"); the Office of Fair Trading; the Data Protection
Commissioner and the Environment Agency.

The
U.K. government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages at varying rates depending on the type of product and its alcohol content by volume. In 2009, we incurred approximately
$848 million in excise taxes on gross revenues of approximately $2.1 billion, or $89.13 per hectoliter.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and
ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. Such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation,
and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for
the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that
would not be material in any one year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and
estimable. However, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such
laws. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 21 "COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES" to the Consolidated Financial Statements under the
caption "Environmental"for additional information regarding environmental matters.

Employees and Employee Relations

Canada

We have approximately 2,700 full-time employees in our Canada segment, of which 63% are represented by trade unions. We
maintain agreements with the various unions representing workers at each of our facilities. We believe that relations with our Canada employees are good.

United States

We have approximately 190 employees in our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado. We believe that relations with our U.S.
employees are good.

MillerCoors
has approximately 9,000 employees. Approximately 36% of its work force is represented by unions. We believe that MillerCoors' relations with its U.S. employees are good.









United Kingdom

We have approximately 2,300 employees in our U.K. segment. Approximately 26% of this total workforce is represented by trade unions,
primarily at our Burton-on-Trent and Tadcaster breweries. We believe that relations with our U.K. employees are good.

Molson Coors International

We have approximately 350 employees in our MCI business, primarily in Asia (China and Japan) and within our Denver headquarters
offices. We believe that relations with our MCI employees are good.

Joint Ventures and Other Existing Arrangements

MillerCoors joint venture

Effective, July 1, 2008, MCBC and SABMiller combined the U.S. and Puerto Rico operations of their respective subsidiaries, CBC
and Miller. Each party contributed its business and related operating assets and certain liabilities into an operating joint venture company. The percentage interests in the profits of the joint
venture are 58% for SABMiller and 42% for MCBC. Voting interests are shared 50%-50%, and each investing company has equal board representation within MillerCoors. Each party to the joint
venture has agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in the joint venture for a period of five years, and certain rights of first refusal apply to any subsequent assignment of such
interests. Our interest in MillerCoors is accounted for by us under the equity method of accounting. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
Notes 3 "SEGMENT REPORTING" and 4 "EQUITY INVESTMENTS."

Grupo Modelo joint venture

Effective, January 1, 2008, MCC and Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. ("Modelo") established a 50%-50% joint
venture, Modelo Molson Imports, L.P. ("MMI"), to import, distribute, and market the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories. Under this new arrangement, MCC's
sales team is responsible for selling the brands across Canada on behalf of the joint venture. Modelo will continue to produce the products sold through the joint venture. The alliance enables MMI to
leverage the existing resources and capabilities of MCC to achieve greater distribution coverage in the Western provinces of Canada. MMI is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

Other existing arrangements

BDL is a distribution operation owned by MCC and one other brewer. Pursuant to an operating agreement, BDL acts as an agent for the
distribution of the brewers' products in the western provinces of Canada and is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

BRI
is a joint venture beer distribution and retail network for the Ontario region of Canada, owned by MCC, and two other brewers. See above for 2009 developments related to BRI. BRI is
accounted for under the equity method.

Grolsch
is a joint venture between MCBC-UK and Royal Grolsch N.V. which marketsGrolschbranded beer in the United
Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. The majority of theGrolschbranded beer is produced by MCBC-UK under a contract brewing agreement, and
we consolidate this joint venture in our financial statements.

Cobra
is a joint venture that owns the U.K. and world-wide rights to the Cobra beer brand (with the exception of the Indian sub-continent area). We consolidate
the results and financial positions of CBPL and it is reported within our U.K. segment.









To
focus on our core competencies in manufacturing, marketing and selling malt beverage products, we have entered into other joint venture arrangements. See
Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4 "EQUITY INVESTMENTS" AND Note 6 "VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES" for further information.

(d)   Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 3 "SEGMENT REPORTING" to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for discussion of sales, operating income, and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.

(e)   Available Information

Our internet website is http://www.molsoncoors.com. Through a direct link to our reports at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov, we make available, free of
charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. The
information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report.

All
of Molson Coors' directors and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and other senior financial officers, are bound by Molson Coors' Code of
Business Conduct, which complies with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the SEC to ensure that the business of Molson Coors is conducted in a legal and ethical manner. The Code of
Business Conduct covers all areas of professional conduct, including employment policies, conflicts of interest, fair dealing, and the protection of confidential information, as well as strict
adherence to all laws and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct is available on the Molson Coors website. Molson Coors endeavors to disclose
amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of the Code of Business Conduct for executive officers and directors on its website within four business days following the date of such amendment or
waiver.

Executive Officers

The following tables set forth certain information regarding our Executive Officers as of February 12, 2010:

NameAgePositionKrishnan Anand52President of Molson Coors InternationalPeter H. Coors63Chairman of the Board of the Company, Executive Director of Coors Brewing Company, and Chairman of the Board of MillerCoors LLCStewart Glendinning44Global Chief Financial Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCRalph P. Hargrow57Global Chief People OfficerMark Hunter47President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors Brewing Company (UK) LimitedDavid Perkins56President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors Canada, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCPeter Swinburn57President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCGregory L. Wade61Global Chief Supply Chain OfficerSamuel D. Walker51Global Chief Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and Managing Director of MillerCoors LLC









