ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

When used in
this report, the terms “IFF”, “the Company”, “we”, “us” and “our”, mean International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., and its subsidiaries. We create, manufacture and supply flavors and fragrances for
the food, beverage, personal care and household products industries. Our flavors and fragrances are individual ingredients or compounds of a large number of ingredients that are blended, mixed or reacted together to produce proprietary formulas
created by our perfumers and flavorists. Utilizing our capabilities in consumer insight, in research and product development (“R&D”), and in creative expertise, we collaborate with our customers to drive consumer preference for our
customers’ brands. This collaboration in turn helps bolster our customers’ market share and grow equity in their brand portfolio.

The global market for flavors and fragrances has expanded consistently, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for, as well as an increase in the variety of, consumer products containing flavors
and fragrances. The flavors and fragrances market is part of a larger market which supplies a variety of ingredients and components that consumer products companies utilize in their products. The broader market includes large multinational companies
or smaller regional and local participants which supply products such as seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food related commodities, fortified products and cosmetic ingredients.

In 2011, we achieved sales of approximately $2.8 billion, making us one of the top four companies in the global flavors and fragrances
sub-segment of the broader market. Within this sub-segment of the broader market, the top four companies comprise approximately 70% of the total estimated sales. We believe that our broad geographic coverage and our diversified portfolio position us
to achieve significant growth as the flavors and fragrances markets expand.

With operations in 32 different countries
worldwide and more than 5,600 employees, we collaborate with our customers to serve consumers in more than 100 countries. We operate in two business segments, Flavors and Fragrances, in four regions. Our largest region is Europe, Africa and the
Middle East, which accounted for 34% of our sales in 2011. Greater Asia is our second largest region, accounting for 27% of our sales in 2011, while North America represented 24% of our sales and Latin America represented 15% of our sales during
2011. Importantly, the fast growing emerging markets, including countries in Asia, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe, contributed approximately 46% of 2011 sales. As our customers in emerging markets grow their business, they
will have the ability to leverage our long-standing presence and our extensive market knowledge to help drive their brands.

In addition to our geographic diversity, we believe we have a diversified product portfolio which helps to provide us stability in
challenging economic environments. In 2011, our Flavors business represented 48% of our sales while our Fragrances business represented 52% of sales.

For financial information about our operating segments and the geographic areas in which we do business, please see Note 12 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.

Core Competencies

We
focus on five core competencies that we believe enable us to (i) successfully provide our customers with superior products, (ii) drive productivity and efficiency gains, and (iii) improve our margins and our cash flow. In that regard,
we strive to:



ŸDevelop a deep understanding of consumers’ preferences and values. Through our Consumer Insights program, we have dedicated
professionals working to understand consumer trends all around the globe. Our consumer and our marketing teams interpret consumer trends, monitor product launches, analyze quantitative market data and conduct a few hundred thousand consumer
interviews annually. Our sensory experts explore flavor and fragrance performance, the psychophysics of sensory perception (including







chemesthetic properties such as warming, cooling and tingling), the genetic basis for flavor and fragrance preference, and the effects of tastes and aromas on mood, performance, health and
well-being. Utilizing our proprietary statistical programs, we use this information to enable us to understand the emotional connections between a prospective product and the consumer. The ability to pinpoint the likelihood of a product’s
success translates into stronger brand equity, helping to produce increased returns and greater market share gains for our customers and us.



ŸUtilize technology to create innovative solutions that drive brand success. We spend approximately 8% of our sales on the development and
implementation of new molecules, compounds and technologies that help our customers respond to changing consumer preference. As a result of this investment, we have been granted over 200 patents in the United States since 2000 and we have developed
many unique molecules and delivery systems for our customers that are used as the foundations of successful flavors and fragrances around the world.



ŸCultivate our creative expertise in collaboration with our customers. We have a network of creative centers around the world where we
create or adapt the basic flavors or fragrances that we have developed in the R&D process to commercialize for use in our customers’ consumer products. Our global creative teams consist of perfumers, fragrance evaluators and flavorists, as
well as marketing, consumer insight, and technical application experts, from a wide range of cultures and nationalities. In close partnership with our customers’ product development groups, our creative teams create the scents or tastes that
our customers are seeking in order to satisfy consumer demands in each of their markets.



ŸUnderstand our customer specific knowledge. We believe that understanding our customers’ brands and their goals by supplying them
with superior products accurately and on time, and our ability to be named a “core list supplier,” are key drivers of our future growth.



ŸDrive efficiency in all that we do.We focus on integrating our consumer insight, technology and creative expertise in a manner that we
believe drives the necessary productivity and efficiency to improve profitability on a long-term basis. We believe that discipline in driving efficiencies is a significant factor in our ability simultaneously to enhance margins and cash flows while
continuing to invest in our key growth initiatives.

Our Product Offerings

Flavors

Flavors
are the key building blocks that impart taste in processed food and beverage products and, as such, play a significant role in determining consumer preference of the end products in which they are used. While we are a global leader, our Flavors
business is regional in nature, with different formulas that reflect local taste and ingredients preferences. As a leading creator of flavors, we help our customers deliver on the promise of delicious and healthy foods and drinks that appeal to
consumers. Our Flavors business includes four categories of products: (1) Savory, (2) Beverages, (3) Sweet, pharmaceutical and oral care (“Sweet”), and (4) Dairy. We create our flavors in our regional creative and
technical centers that allow us to satisfy local taste preferences, while helping to ensure regulatory compliance and production standards. We also manufacture a limited amount of flavor ingredients for our use in developing flavor compounds.



ŸSavory —We produce flavors which are used in soups, sauces, condiments, prepared meals, meat and poultry, and potato chips and other
savory snacks.



ŸBeverages— We create flavors for juice drinks, carbonated beverages, flavored waters and spirits and have creative expertise dedicated to
beverage flavor systems.



ŸSweet— We create innovative flavor concepts and heat-stable flavors for bakery products, as well as candy, chewing gum and cereal which
each have distinctive sweet tastes. For pharmaceutical and oral care products, we produce flavors for products such as toothpaste and mouthwash and have the expertise to create flavors that work well while masking the active ingredients that make
these products effective.







ŸDairy— We offer a complete range of value-added compounded flavors for all dairy applications, including yogurt, ice cream, cheese, cream
and butter flavor. We also offer a wide range of quality vanilla extracts and a variety of flavor solutions that build on our understanding of vanilla.

We develop thousands of different flavors for our customers, most of which are tailor-made, and we continuously develop new formulas in order to meet changing consumer preferences and customer needs.
Consumers, especially those in developed markets such as the United States and Europe, are increasingly seeking to focus on products which promote health and wellness. They want food and beverage products that are good for them, but which taste
good. Our objective is to capture a significant share of this shift in consumer demand by capitalizing on the ability of our naturals and proprietary ingredients and taste modulation technology to provide consumers with healthier solutions without
changing the taste experience of the food or beverage. For example, our sweetness modulation technology, combined with our blend of natural sweeteners, allows products to have a reduced sugar content without affecting taste. Our sodium modulation
technology seeks to reduce the content of salt in consumer products while at the same time maximizing taste by enhancing the flavors of other ingredients.

We are also developing sophisticated flavor profiles in our CulinEssence™ program to bring authentic culinary flavors to our customers. The success of our recent launches of new culinary chicken and
beef flavors was a direct result of this program.

Fragrances

We are a global leader in the creation of fragrances. Our fragrances are a key component in the world’s finest perfumes and
best-known consumer brands, including beauty care, fabric care, personal wash and home care products. Our Fragrances business consists of three categories of products: (1) Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care, (2) Functional Fragrances and
(3) Fragrance Ingredients.



ŸFine Fragrance and Beauty Care —We have created some of the industry-leading fragrance classics as well as cutting-edge niche fragrances,
as evidenced by our number of top sellers and the success of our new launches. Within our Beauty Care product line, we provide our customers innovation in the hair care, deodorant and skincare categories to create new fragrance experiences for the
consumer and increased brand loyalty for our customers.



ŸFunctional Fragrances— We have three subcategories of products in which our fragrances are included: (1) Fabric Care, including
laundry detergents, fabric softeners and specialty laundry products; (2) Personal Wash, including bar soap and shower gel; and (3) Home Care, including household cleaners, dishwashing detergents and air fresheners.



ŸFragrance Ingredients— We manufacture innovative, high-quality and cost-effective fragrance ingredients for internal use by our perfumers
in our Fragrances business and for external use by our customers and other third parties, including our competitors. With over 1,300 separate fragrance ingredients, we believe that we lead the industry with the breadth of our product portfolio. We
manufacture our ingredients through our global network of production facilities. We believe that this network gives us the flexibility to make products in different locations while maintaining the same high and consistent standards of product
quality.

Our perfumers have access to our large portfolio of innovative ingredients to support their
creativity, which in turn provides our customers with a unique identity for their brands. We also create innovative delivery systems, including our (i) proprietary encapsulation technology, which consists of individual fragrance droplets which
are coated with a protective polymetric shell to deliver superior fragrance performance throughout a product’s lifecycle, and (ii) our exclusive polymer delivery system, PolyIFF, which is a “solid fragrance” technology that
allows us to add scent to functional or molded plastic.

We believe that our in-house naturals facilities, led by Laboratoire
Monique Rémy (LMR) in Grasse, France, is the industry standard for quality natural materials, offering decades of experience understanding natural products and perfecting the process of transforming naturals, such as narcissus, jasmine and
blackcurrant bud, into pure absolutes that retain the unique fragrance of their origin.







We also collaborate with the leading art and fashion schools in the world to tap into the
creative minds of the future leaders of fashion and design. We collaborate with writers, artists, film-makers and scientists to expose our perfumers to new and constantly evolving creative territories.

Research and Product Development

We consider our research and product development infrastructure to be one of our key competencies and we focus and invest substantial resources in the research and development of new and innovative
compounds, formulas and technologies and the application of these to our customers’ products. Using the knowledge gained from our Consumer Insights program, we strategically focus our resources to formulate the two main components of a flavor
or fragrance: (1) innovative materials (taste and scent building blocks) and (2) delivery systems (taste and scent releases). We maintain four research and development centers around the world, at which we employ scientists and application
engineers to support (i) the discovery of new materials, (ii) the development of new technologies, such as our delivery systems, (iii) the creation of new compounds and (iv) the enhancement of existing ingredients and compounds.

In our 17 creative centers around the world, including our newest facilities in Shanghai, Sao Paulo, Mumbai and
Moscow, teams of flavorists and perfumers work with our customers’ product development groups to create the exact scent or taste they are seeking. In 2011, we employed about 1,175 employees in research and product development activities. We
spent $220 million, $219 million and $185 million, or approximately 8% of our sales, in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on R&D and product development activities.

Our ingredients research program discovers molecules found in natural substances and creates new molecules that are subsequently tested
for their fragrance or flavor value. To broaden our offering of natural, innovative and unique products, we seek out collaborations with research institutions and other companies throughout the world. We have created a number of such collaborations
that strengthen and broaden the pipeline of new and innovative products we intend to launch in the coming years.

The
development of new and customized flavor and fragrance products is a complex process calling upon the combined knowledge of our scientists, flavorists and perfumers. Scientists from various disciplines work in project teams with the flavorists and
perfumers to develop flavor and fragrance products with consumer preferred performance characteristics. The development of new flavor and fragrance compounds requires (i) in-depth knowledge of the flavor and fragrance characteristics of the
various ingredients we use, (ii) an understanding of how the many ingredients in a consumer product interact and (iii) the creation of controlled release and delivery systems to enhance flavor and fragrance performance. To facilitate this
process, in 2011, we formed a scientific advisory board comprising of five expert scientists to provide external perspectives on our research and development programs.

Development of new flavors and fragrances is driven by a variety of sources including requests from our customers, who are in need of a specific flavor or fragrance for use in a new or modified consumer
product, or as a result of internal initiatives stemming from our Consumer Insights program. Our product development team works in partnership with our scientists and researchers to optimize the consumer appeal of the flavor or fragrance. It then
becomes a collaborative process between our researchers, our product development team and our customers to perfect the flavor or fragrance so that it is ready to be included in the final consumer product.

In addition to creating new flavors and fragrances, our researchers and product development teams advise customers on ways to improve
their existing products by adjusting or substituting current ingredients with more readily accessible or less expensive materials or modifying the current ingredients to produce an enhanced yield. Often this results in creating a better value
proposition for the consumer.

Our flavor and fragrance formulas are treated as trade secrets and remain our proprietary
asset. Our business is not materially dependent upon any individual patent, trademark or license.







Supply Chain

We have an integrated supply chain from raw material sourcing through manufacturing, quality assurance, regulatory compliance and distribution, which permits us to provide our customers with consistent
quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis.

Procurement. The ingredients that we use in our compounds are
both natural and synthetic. We purchase approximately 9,000 different raw materials from about 2,200 domestic and international suppliers. Approximately half of the materials we purchase are naturals or crop related items and the other half are
synthetics and chemicals. Natural ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products as well as from animal products. They contain varying numbers of organic chemicals, which are responsible for the fragrance or flavor of the
natural product. The natural products are purchased in processed or semi-processed form. Some are used in compounds in the state in which they are purchased and others after further processing. Natural products, together with various chemicals, are
also used as raw materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes. Our flavor products also include extracts and seasonings derived from various fruits, vegetables, nuts, herbs and spices as well as
microbiologically-derived ingredients. We manufacture most of our synthetic ingredients for use in our fragrance compounds as well as for sale to others.

While we purchase a diverse portfolio of raw materials, about 80% of our spending is focused on approximately 1,000 materials, which allows us to leverage our buying power with suppliers. In order to
ensure our supply of raw materials, achieve favorable pricing, and provide timely transparency regarding inflationary trends to our customers, we continue to be focused on (i) implementing a forward buy strategy, (ii) entering into
supplier relationships to gain access to supplies that we do not have, (iii) implementing indexed pricing, (iv) reducing the complexity of our formulations, and (v) evaluating whether it is more profitable to buy or make an
ingredient. We are also concentrating on local country sourcing with our own procurement professionals.

Manufacturing and
Distribution.We have 29 manufacturing sites around the world that support more than 36,000 products. Our major manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, the Netherlands, Spain, Great Britain, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico,
Australia, China, India, Indonesia, Japan and Singapore. Our supply chain initiatives in developing markets are focused on increasing capacity and investments in key technologies, while we focus on consolidation and cost optimization in mature
markets. In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we develop relationships with third parties that permit us to expand the technologies, capabilities and capacity that we can access to serve our customers.

Based on the regional nature of the Flavors business, and the concerns regarding the transportability of raw materials, we have
established smaller manufacturing facilities in our local markets that are focused on local needs. Products within the Fragrances business are typically composed of compounds that are more stable and more transportable around the world.
Consequently, we have fewer manufacturing facilities within our Fragrances business, which produce compounds and ingredients for global distribution.

During 2011, our 25 largest customers accounted for 53% of our sales. Sales to the largest customer accounted for 11%, 10% and 11% of our sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These sales were
largely in our Fragrances business.

Governmental Regulation

We develop, produce and market our products in a number of jurisdictions throughout the world and are subject to federal, regional and local legislation and regulations in each of the various countries.
Our flavor and many of our fragrance products are intended for the food, beverage and pharmaceutical industries, which are subject to strict quality and regulatory standards. As a result, we are required to meet these strict standards which, in
recent years, have become increasingly stringent.

In addition, we are subject to various rules relating to health, work
safety and environment at the local and international levels in the various countries in which we operate. Our manufacturing facilities throughout the







world are subject to environmental standards relating to air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean up of existing environmental
contamination. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the stringency of environmental regulation and enforcement of environmental standards, and the costs of compliance have risen significantly. We expect that the trend of
increased regulation and disclosure will continue in the future.

Our products and operations are subject to regulation by
governmental agencies in each of the markets in which we operate; these agencies include (1) the Food and Drug Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate the flavors and other ingredients in consumer products,
(2) the Environmental Protection Agency and equivalent international agencies that regulate our fragrance compounds, (3) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate the working
conditions in our manufacturing, research laboratories and creative centers, (4) local and international agencies that regulate trade and customs and (5) the Drug Enforcement Administration and other international agencies that regulate
controlled chemicals that we use in our operations. For example, in the continuing implementation of the EU REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances) regulations, we will be registering a number of
chemical substances in advance of the next registration deadline of May, 2013.

Strategic Priorities

We are focused on generating sustainable profitable growth in our business and positioning our portfolio for long-term growth. In 2010, we
performed an in-depth strategic review of our company, evaluating the economic profitability of each of our product categories, our regions and our customers. As a result, we believe we can improve our long-term business performance and increase
shareholder value by leveraging our geographic reach, strengthening our innovation platform and maximizing our portfolio. The key elements of these strategic priorities are the following:



ŸLeverage geographic reach:The expansion of our geographic reach to capture the attractive population growth and wealth creation in emerging
markets is a key component in our growth plan. In emerging markets, strong GDP growth and a significant expansion of the middle-class consumer are expanding the demand for better-flavored and fragranced consumer products. As a result of this trend,
we have made significant investments in emerging markets. Since 2008, we have opened four state-of-the-art creative centers in Shanghai, Sao Paulo, Moscow and Mumbai, and in 2011 we announced the construction of two manufacturing sites in China and
Singapore. We expect that the emerging markets will represent a greater percentage of our sales than the developed markets by 2015, as we estimate that growth potential in these markets is approximately three to four times greater than growth in the
developed markets.



ŸStrengthen innovation platform:We continue to focus on creating innovative and distinctive products that drive consumer preference to our
customers’ brands. We have been strengthening our innovation platforms by reinforcing them with technological developments and external collaborations. We anticipate that this renewed focus will be instrumental in driving customer growth, as
our consumer-centric innovation will allow our customers to win in the marketplace and drive market share gains. To capture these opportunities in Flavors, we are focusing on key taste modulation technology to provide consumers with healthier
solutions without a change in the taste quality. In Fragrances, we are focusing on ingredients, including our naturals portfolio and delivery systems.



ŸMaximize portfolio:We have identified opportunities where we can accelerate our performance by further leveraging our advantaged portfolio and
implementing solutions to fix less attractive areas. These solutions include appropriate pricing actions, greater efficiency in our supply chain, aligning resources behind our advantaged portfolio, and, in some cases, phasing out some low margin
businesses.

Competition

The market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. Based on annual sales, our main competitors consist of (1) the three other large global flavor and fragrance manufacturers, Givaudan,
Firmenich and Symrise,







(2) mid-sized companies, (3) numerous small and local manufacturers with more limited research and development capabilities who focus on narrow market segments and local customers and
(4) consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances. The flavors and fragrances market is part of a larger market which supplies a variety of ingredients and components that consumer products companies utilize in
their products. The broader market includes large multinational companies or smaller regional and local participants which supply products such as seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food related commodities, fortified products and
cosmetic ingredients. We, together with the other top three companies, represent approximately 70% of the total estimated sales in the global flavors and fragrances sub-segment of the broader market. Over the last five years, there has been a trend
towards consolidation.

We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the flavors and fragrance market is based on
(1) our understanding of consumers, (2) innovation, arising from the creative skills of our perfumers and flavorists and the technological advances resulting from our research and development activities, (3) our ability to develop
products which are tailor made for our customers’ needs, (4) the quality, reliability and cost effectiveness of our products, (5) the quality of our customer service, (6) the support provided by our marketing and application
groups and (7) an understanding of the regulatory requirements in the markets in which our customers operate.

Large
multinational customers, and increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers, placing some on “core lists,” giving them priority for development and production of their new or modified products. To compete more
successfully in this environment, we must make continued investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers’ needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on
certain “core lists.”

Employee Relations

At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 5,600 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 1,400 are employed in the United States. We believe that relations with our employees are good.

Availability of Reports

We make available free of charge on or through the Investor Relations link on our website, www.iff.com, all materials that we file
electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. During the period covered by this Form 10-K, we made
all such materials available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with the SEC.

You may also read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549, and you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC in the U.S. at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.

A copy of our Corporate Governance
Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website,
www.iff.com.

Our principal executive offices are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019 (212-765-5500).







Executive Officers of Registrant

The current executive officers of the Company, as of February 28, 2012, are listed below.



Douglas D. Tough62Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerKevin C. Berryman53Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerNicolas Mirzayantz49Group President, FragrancesHernan Vaisman53Group President, FlavorsAhmet Baydar59Senior Vice President, Research and DevelopmentAngelica T. Cantlon60Senior Vice President, Human ResourcesAnne Chwat52Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryFrancisco Fortanet43Senior Vice President, OperationsRichard A. O’Leary51Vice President and Controller

Douglas D. Toughhas served as IFF’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since March 2010.
Previously, he served as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Ansell Limited, a global leader in healthcare barrier protection, from 2004 until March 2010. Mr. Tough joined the IFF Board in 2008 and served as its non-Executive
Chairman from October 2009 until he became our CEO.

Kevin C. Berrymanhas served as our Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer since May 2009, and also served as a member of our Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer from October 1, 2009 until February 2010. Prior to joining us, Mr. Berryman served as Chief Financial Officer of
Nestle Professional, Americas, a global foodservice manufacturer, from October 2008 to May 2009, and Senior Vice President, Group Controller of Nestle S.A., an international food and beverage company, from June 2006 to September 2008.
Mr. Berryman was also Chief Financial Officer of Nestle Purina PetCare, a pet care company, from December 2001 to May 2006.

Nicolas Mirzayantzhas served as our Group President, Fragrances since January 2007, and also served as a member of our Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer from October 1, 2009
until February 2010. Mr. Mirzayantz has also served as our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care and Regional Manager North America, from March 2005 to December 2006, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care
from October 2004 to February 2005, and our Vice President Global Fragrance Business Development from February 2002 to September 2004.

Hernan Vaismanhas served as our Group President, Flavors since January 2007, and also served as a member of our Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer from October 1, 2009 until
February 2010. From October 2004 to December 2006, Mr. Vaisman served as our Vice President, Latin America, and from January 2003 to September 2004, Mr. Vaisman served as our Regional Finance Director, Latin America Region.

Ahmet Baydarhas served as our Senior Vice President, Research and Development since September 2010, and as our Vice President,
Global Fragrance Research from February 2009 to August 2010. Prior to joining us, Dr. Baydar served as a Director of Shave Care and Integrated Shaving Systems at The Procter & Gamble Company, a branded consumer packed goods company,
from January 2006 to October 2007, and Vice President of R&D-Personal Care at The Gillette Company, a personal care products company, from August 2000 to January 2006.

Angelica T. Cantlonhas served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 2009. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cantlon served as Senior Vice President-International Chief
Administrative Officer of MetLife, Inc., an insurance and financial services company, from June 2005 to August 2009, and Senior Vice President-Human Resources Business Leader, of Metlife from September 1999 to June 2005.

Anne Chwathas served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since April 2011. Prior to joining us,
Ms. Chwat served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Burger King







Holdings, Inc., a fast food hamburger restaurant company, from September 2004 to April 2011. From September 2000 to September 2004, Ms. Chwat served in various positions at BMG Music (now
SonyBMG Music Entertainment), including as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer.

Francisco Fortanethas served as Senior Vice President, Operations since February 27, 2012 and as our Vice
President, Global Manufacturing Compounding from January 2007 to February 2012. Mr. Fortanet has also served as our Vice President, Global Manufacturing from January 2006 to January 2007, our Regional Director of North America Operations from
December 2003 to January 2005, the Project Manager of a Special Project in IFF Ireland from May 2003 to December 2003 and as our Plant Manager in Hazlet, New Jersey from October 1999 to May 2003.

Richard A. O’Learyhas served as our Vice President and Controller since June 2009, our Interim Chief Financial Officer from
July 2008 to May 2009 and our Vice President, Corporate Development from July 2007 to May 2009. Prior to joining us, Mr. O’Leary served in various positions since 1986 at International Paper Co., a paper and packaging company, including,
most recently, as Chief Financial Officer of International Paper Company (Brazil) from June 2004 to June 2007.



