ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

We are a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances (including cosmetic active ingredients) that are used in the food, beverage, personal care or household products industries.Our flavor and fragrance compounds combine a number of ingredients to produce proprietary formulas created by our flavorists and perfumers. Utilizing our capabilities in consumer insight, research and product development (“R&D”) and creative expertise, wepartner with our customers to provide innovative and differentiated product offerings that drive consumer preference. We believe that this collaborative approach will generate market share gains for ourcustomers.

Our approximately 6,700 employees, 34 manufacturing facilities and 33 creative centers are located in 35 different countries. We collaborate with our customers to develop the 38,000 products we provide our customers in approximately 150 countries. We believe we are well positioned to serve both our global customers as well as the increasing number of regional and specialty consumer goods producers. In addition, through our acquisition of Lucas Meyer Cosmetics (“Lucas Meyer”) in 2015, we have added to our portfolio active and functional ingredients, botanicals and delivery systems to support our customers’ cosmetic and personal care product lines.

We principally compete in the flavors and fragrances market, which is part of a larger market which supplies a wide variety of ingredients and compounds that are used in consumer products. The broader market includes large multinational companies and smaller regional and local participants that supply products such as seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food-related commodities, fortified products and cosmetic ingredients. The global market for flavors and fragrances has expanded consistently, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for, as well as an increase in the variety of, consumer products containing flavors and fragrances. The flavors and fragrances markets in which we compete were estimated by management to be $18.0 billion in 2014, and are forecasted to grow to approximately $21.6 billion by 2019, primarily driven by expected growth in emerging markets.



Source: Company estimates based on IAL Consultants: Overview of the Global Flavours & Fragrances market (9th edition, 2014).

In 2015, we achieved sales of approximately$3.0 billion, making us one of the top four companies in the global flavors and fragrances sub-segment of the broader ingredients and compounds market. Within the flavors and fragrances sub-segment of this broader market, the top four companies represent approximately two-thirds of the total estimated sales. In late 2015, we expanded our capabilities and product offerings into cosmetic actives through our acquisition of Lucas Meyer. We estimate the market size for cosmetic active ingredients to be approximately $1.5 billion as of 2015. We believe that our diversified business platform consisting of expansive geographic coverage, a broad product portfolio and a global and regional customer base, positions us to achieve long-term growth as the flavors and fragrances markets expand.








We operate in two business segments, Flavors and Fragrances. In 2015, our Flavors business represented 48% of our sales, while our Fragrances business represented 52% of sales. Our business is geographically diverse, with sales to customers in the four regions set forth below:

Region% of 2015 SalesEurope, Africa, Middle East31%Greater Asia28%North America24%Latin America17%

We are committed to winning in emerging markets. We believe that significant future growth potential for the flavors and fragrances industry, and for our business, exists in the emerging markets (all markets except North America, Japan, Australia, and Western, Southern and Northern Europe). Over the past five years our currency neutral growth rate in emerging markets have outpaced that of developed markets. Despite current challenges experienced during 2015 in certain emerging markets, such as Brazil, Argentina and China, we expect this long-term trend to continue for the foreseeable future.

We have had operations in some of the largest emerging markets for multiple decades. As a result of these established operations, sales in emerging markets represented 51% of2015sales, up from 50% in2014. As our customers in emerging markets grow their businesses, they will have the ability to leverage our long-standing presence and our extensive market knowledge to help drive their brands.During2015, our 25 largest customers accounted for 52% of our sales. Sales to our largest customer accounted for 12% of our sales for each of the last three fiscal years. These sales were principally in our Fragrances business.

For financial information about our operating segments and the geographic areas in which we do business, please see Note 13 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.

Vision 2020 Strategy

During 2015, we announced our Vision 2020 strategy, which focuses on building differentiation and accelerating growth. Our Vision 2020 strategy has four pillars:



(1)Innovating Firsts- We seek to strengthen our position and drive differentiation in priority R&D platforms. We are sharply focused on key initiatives that are grounded in consumer needs, such as modulation, proteins and textures for flavors, new molecules and digital scents for fragrances, and delivery systems and naturals across both business units.In 2015, we launched four captive molecules to be used exclusively by our perfumers, and commercialized two new natural taste modulators.



(2)Win Where We Compete- Our goal is to achieve a #1 or #2 market leadership position in key markets and categories and with specific customers. For example, we believe that there is opportunity to further improve our market share position in North America, where innovation-centric customers are expected to continue to drive one of the world’s largest flavor and fragrance markets. In the Middle East and Africa, which are among the fastest-growing regions globally, many of our international and domestic customers are strategizing to penetrate these key markets and we believe that we can leverage our existing relationships with them to increase our participation in these markets. In addition, we are targeting specific end-use categories, such as Home Care and Fine Fragrances, and customers, where innovation and creativity will fuel growth.



(3)Become Our Customers' Partner of Choice-Our goal is to attain commercial excellence by providing our customers with in-depth local consumer understanding, industry-leading innovation, outstanding service and the highest quality products. In 2015, we won the North America innovation award with one of our largest flavor customers, which recognizes partners for their thought leadership. In addition, one of our global fragrance customers presented us with their Supplier Excellence award, an achievement designed to acknowledge their top performing business partners. We believe the addition of Lucas Meyer to our Fragrances business enhances our capabilities and product offerings needed to be a partner of choice. Webelieve that becoming our customers’ partner of choice will lead to incremental business opportunities for our customers and us.



(4)Strengthen and Expand the Portfolio- We actively pursue value-creation through partnerships, collaborations, and acquisitions within flavors, fragrances and adjacencies. We prioritize opportunities that provide (i) access to new technologies, (ii) the ability to increase our market share in key markets and with key customers or (iii) access to








adjacent products or services that will position us to leverage our expertise in science and technology and our customer base. As part of this pillar, we are targeting $500 million to $1 billion of incremental sales growth through acquisitions by 2020.

During 2015, we completed two acquisitions that are aligned with our Vision 2020 strategy. Through our acquisition of Ottens Flavors in May 2015, we strengthened our flavors market position in North America and increased our capabilities to serve small and mid-sized customers. We believe our acquisition of Lucas Meyer will expand our ingredients offerings into the cosmetic industry and thereby allow us to build greater customer intimacy and drive penetration into the skin care and hair care businesses.

Our Product Offerings

Flavors

Flavors are the key building blocks that impart taste experiences in food and beverage products and, as such, play a significant role in determining consumer preference of the end products in which they are used. As a leading creator of flavor compounds, we help our customers deliver on the promise of delicious and healthy foods and drinks that appeal to consumers. While we are a global leader, our Flavors business is more regional in nature, with different formulas that reflect local taste preferences. We create our flavors in our regional creative centers that allow us to satisfy local taste preferences, while also helping to ensure regulatory compliance and production standards. We develop thousands of different flavors and taste offerings for our customers, most of which are tailor-made. We continually develop new formulas in order to meet changing consumer preferences and customer needs.

Our Flavors compounds are ultimately used by our customers in the following four end-use categories of consumer goods: (1) Savory,for use in soups, sauces, condiments, prepared meals, meat and poultry, potato chips and other savory snacks; (2) Beverages,for use in juice drinks, carbonated beverages, flavored waters and spirits, (3) Sweet,for use in bakery products, candy, chewing gum and cereal and (4) Dairy, for use in all dairy products such as yogurt, ice cream and cheese and other products that have a creamy flavor. We also offer a wide range of quality vanilla extracts and a variety of flavor solutions that build on our understanding of vanilla.

Our Vision 2020 Strategy in Flavors builds upon our strengths and focuses on addressing industry trends that will allow us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and deliver accelerated growth. These trends include:

(1)Consumer Demand for Fresh, Authentic and Natural Products.As evidenced by recent trends in product labeling, consumers increasingly seek to understand what they are consuming. Our objective is to expand our naturals capabilities by offering our customers naturals and proprietary ingredients.

(2)Consumer Demand for Products That Promote Health and Wellness. Consumers, especially those in developed markets such as the United States and Western Europe, are increasingly seeking to focus on products which promote health and wellness and taste good. Often, this demand is translated into a desire to provide consumer products with reduced fat and salt. Our objective is to capture a significant share of this shift in consumer demand by continuing to expand our modulation technology, delivery systems and our naturals and proprietary ingredients.

(3)Expansion of Consumer Food Companies. The number of participants in the food industry continues to expand drastically, with mid-sized regional companies and companies focused on niche-product categories joining the traditional global companies to drive and accelerate product innovation. We intend to look for innovative and value-creating methodsfor serving this growing customer base as evidenced by our recent acquisition of Ottens Flavors which we believe will permit us to further penetrate small and mid-sized customers by delivering tailored solutions with the necessary agility, speed and responsiveness.

(4)New Sources of Protein. Sustainability concerns are driving the food industry to evaluate non-traditional sources of protein. As part of our R&D initiatives we seek to develop a comprehensive understanding of flavor interaction with protein and texture and develop taste solutions for new or alternative protein sources.

Fragrances

We are a global leader in the creation of fragrance compounds that are integral elements in the world’s finest perfumes and best-known consumer products, within fabric care, home care, personal wash, hair care and toiletries. Our Fragrance business is a vertically integrated operation, originating with the development in our research laboratories of naturals, synthetic and proprietary molecules and innovative delivery systems, progressing to our manufacturing facilities that produce these ingredients in a consistent, high-quality and cost-effective manner and transitioning to our creative centers where our








perfumers partner with our customers to create unique fragrance compounds for use in a variety of end-use products.

By providing our fragrance development teams an extensive portfolio of innovative, high-quality and cost-effective ingredients to support their creativity, we are able to provide our customers with a unique identity for their brands. These ingredients or fragrance compounds can then be combined with our innovative delivery systems, including (i) our proprietary encapsulation technology, which consists of individual fragrance droplets coated with a protective polymetric shell to deliver superior fragrance performance throughout a product’s lifecycle and (ii) our exclusive polymer delivery system, PolyIFF, which is a “solid fragrance” technology that allows us to add scent to functional or molded plastic. These delivery systems are key differentiators that fuel the growth of our consumer fragrance compounds.

Our Fragrances business derives revenues from two sources, Fragrance Compounds and Ingredients.

Fragrance Compounds.Fragrance Compounds are unique and proprietary combinations of multiple ingredients that are ultimately used by our customers in their consumer goods. Our creative and commercial teams within Fragrance Compounds are organized into two broad categories: Fine Fragrances and Consumer Fragrances:

◦Fine Fragrances-Fine Fragrances focuses on perfumes and colognes. IFF’s scientists and perfumers collaborate to develop new molecules, new natural extractions, and innovative processes that enliven perfumers' palettes and help them create unique, inspiring fragrances. We have created some of the industry-leading fine fragrance classics as well as cutting-edge niche fragrances, as evidenced by the number of top sellers and the successes of our new launches.

◦Consumer Fragrances- Our Consumer Fragrances include five end-use categories of products:

▪Fabric Care - laundry detergents, fabric softeners and specialty laundry products;

▪Home Care - household cleaners, dishwashing detergents and air fresheners;

▪Personal Wash, including bar soap and shower gel;

▪Hair Care; and

▪Toiletries.



Ingredients.While the principal role of our fragrance ingredients facilities is to support our Fragrance Compounds business, we utilize our excess manufacturing capacity to manufacture and sell certain fragrance ingredients to third parties. We believe that this business allows us to leverage our fixed costs while maintaining the security of supply for our perfumers and ultimately our customers. Ingredients available for sale to third parties include innovative ingredients that leverage our manufacturing experience as well as a limited amount of cost-competitive, commodity ingredients. As our Fragrance Compounds business grows, we expect that the percentage of capacity allocated to the production of fragrance ingredients for sale to third parties will decrease.



With approximately 1,000 separate fragrance, active and functional cosmetic active ingredients, plus additional botanicals and delivery systems acquired in the recent Lucas Meyer transaction, we believe we are a leader in the industry with the breadth of our product portfolio.

Our Vision 2020 strategy in Fragrances builds upon our strengths to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and deliver accelerated growth. Specifically, we intend to focus on:

(1)Consumer Demand for Natural and Organic Products.Increased demand for natural ingredients is a primary driver of future growth in Fine Fragrances. We believe that our in-house naturals operations, led by Laboratoire Monique Rémy (“LMR”) in Grasse, France, are industry leading in the processing of quality materials and offer decades of experience understanding natural products and perfecting the process of transforming naturals, such as narcissus, jasmine and blackcurrant bud, into pure absolutes that retain the unique fragrance of their origin. Our objective is to expand our naturals capabilities by offering our clients naturals and proprietary ingredients.

(2)Transparency in Labeling.  As consumers worldwide seek to require transparency in labeling, our customers will progressively seek to differentiate their products through proprietary molecules and unique delivery systems. A major emphasis of our research program is the creation of new proprietary molecules and ingredients.

(3)Sustainability. Consumers aspire to purchase products that are earth-friendly and sustainable. As part of Vision 2020, we have committed to strengthen our sustainable practices and become the leader within our industry.

(4)Delivery Systems.We continue to invest in our delivery system technologies, including expansion of our market-leading encapsulation technology, which we believe will allow us to differentiate our products and those of our customers.  Our encapsulation technology extends, controls the release of and increases aromas in a variety of consumer products. With our acquisition of Lucas Meyer, we expanded our portfolio to offer multi-functional delivery systems with cosmetic actives that work to enhance skin penetration, protect the active against interactions with other ingredients, provide long-lasting








release, facilitate formulation of challenging ingredients and allow a better-targeted action.

Our Fragrances business collaborates with some of the world’s leading art and fashion schools to tap into the creative minds of the future leaders of fashion and design. We collaborate with scientists, writers, artists, musicians and film makers to expose our perfumers to new and constantly evolving creative territories and approaches.



Research and Product Development Process

Consumer Insights

We believe that the first step to creating a unique scent or taste experience begins with gaining insight into the consumer. By developing a deep understanding of what consumers value and prefer, we are better able to focus our R&D and creative efforts. Our quest to bring new, exciting, and winning ideas to our clients begins with insight into the consumer.

Our consumer insight and marketing teams work tirelessly interpreting trends, monitoring product launches, analyzing quantitative market data, and conducting several hundred thousand consumer interviews annually. Our sensory experts direct research programs exploring topics such as fragrance performance, the psychophysics of sensory perception (including chemesthetic properties such as warming, cooling, and tingling), the genetic basis for flavor and fragrance preference, and the effects of aromas on mood, performance, health, and well-being.

Based on this information, we develop innovative programs to evaluate potential products that enable us to understand the emotional connections between a prospective product and the consumer. We believe this ability to pinpoint the likelihood of a product’s success translates into stronger brand equity, resulting in increased returns and greater market share gains for our customers as well as IFF.

Research and Development

We consider our R&D development infrastructure to be one of our key competencies and we focus and invest substantial resources in the research and development of new and innovative compounds, formulas and technologies and the application of these to our customers’ products. We spend approximately 8% of our sales on the research, development and implementation of new molecules, compounds and technologies that help our customers respond to changing consumer preferences. Using the knowledge gained from our Consumer Insights program, we strategically focus our resources around key R&D platforms that address consumer needs or preferences, or anticipate future preferences. By aligning our resources around these platforms, we ensure the proper support and focus for each program so that it can be further developed and eventually accepted for commercial application. As a result of this investment, we have been granted 305 patents in the United States since 2000, including 15 in2015, and we have developed many unique molecules and delivery systems for our customers that are used as the foundations of successful flavors and fragrances around the world.

We principally conduct our R&D activities in Union Beach, New Jersey, where we employ scientists and application engineers who collaborate with our five other R&D centers around the world, to support the:

◦discovery of new materials;

◦development of new technologies, such as delivery systems;

◦creation of new compounds; and

◦enhancement of existing ingredients and compounds.

As ofDecember 31, 2015, we employed about 1,400 people globally in R&D activities. We spent$246.1 million,$253.6 millionand$259.8 million, or approximately8%,8%and9%of sales in2015,2014and2013, respectively, on R&D activities.

Our ingredients research program discovers molecules found in natural substances and creates new molecules that are subsequently tested for their sensorial value. To broaden our offerings of natural, innovative and unique products, we seek collaborations with research institutions and other companies throughout the world. We have established a number of such collaborations, for example, our ongoing relationship with Amyris, to strengthen the pipeline of new and innovative molecules that we expect to launch in the coming years. To further strengthen and broaden technology offerings and capabilities, we acquired Lucas Meyer in 2015 to expand our product portfolio of ingredients for the cosmetic and personal care industries.

The development of new and customized flavor and fragrance compounds is a complex process calling upon the combined knowledge of our scientists, flavorists and perfumers. Scientists from various disciplines work in project teams with flavorists and perfumers to develop flavor and fragrance compounds with consumer preferred performance characteristics.  The development of new flavor and fragrance compounds requires (i) an in-depth knowledge of the flavor and fragrance








characteristics of the various ingredients we use, (ii) an understanding of how the many ingredients in a consumer product interact and (iii) the creation of controlled release and delivery systems to enhance flavor and fragrance performance. To facilitate this process, we have a scientific advisory board comprised of five leading scientists that provide external perspectives and independent feedback on our R&D initiatives.

Creative Application

We also have a network of 33 creative centers around the world where we create or adapt the basic flavors or fragrances that we have developed in the R&D process to commercialize for use in our customers’ consumer products. Our global creative teams consist of perfumers, fragrance evaluators and flavorists, as well as marketing, consumer insights and technical application experts, from a wide range of cultures and nationalities. In close partnership with our customers’ product development groups, our creative teams create the scents and tastes that our customers are seeking in order to satisfy consumer demands in each of their markets.

Development of new flavors and fragrances is driven by a variety of sources including requests from our customers, who are in need of a specific flavor or fragrance for use in a new or modified consumer product, or as a result of internal initiatives stemming from our Consumer Insights program. Our product development team works in partnership with our scientists and researchers to optimize the consumer appeal of the flavor or fragrance. A collaborative process between our researchers, our product development team and our customers then follows to perfect the flavor or fragrance so that it is ready to be included in the final consumer product.

In addition to creating new flavors and fragrances, our researchers and product development teams advise customers on ways to improve their existing products by adjusting or substituting current ingredients with more readily accessible or less expensive materials or by modifying the current ingredients to produce an enhanced yield. This often results in creating a better value proposition for our customers.

Our flavor and fragrance compound formulas are treated as trade secrets and remain our proprietary asset. Our business is not materially dependent upon any individual patent, trademark or license.

Supply Chain

We have an integrated supply chain from raw material sourcing through manufacturing, quality assurance, regulatory compliance and distribution, which permits us to provide our customers with consistent quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis.

Procurement

We use both natural and synthetic ingredients in our compounds. We purchase approximately 9,000 different raw materials from about 2,500 domestic and international suppliers. Approximately half of the materials we purchase are naturals or crop-related items and the other half are synthetics and chemicals. Natural ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products as well as from animal products. They contain varying numbers of organic chemicals that are responsible for the fragrance or flavor of the natural product. Natural products are purchased in processed or semi-processed form. Some are used in compounds in the state in which they are purchased and others are used after further processing. Natural products, together with various chemicals, are also used as raw materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes. Our flavor products also include extracts and seasonings derived from various fruits, vegetables, nuts, herbs and spices as well as microbiologically-derived ingredients. We manufacture most of our synthetic ingredients for use in our fragrance compounds as well as for sale to others.

In order to ensure our supply of raw materials, achieve favorable pricing and provide timely transparency regarding inflationary trends to our customers, we continue to be focused on (i) implementing a forward-buy strategy, (ii) entering into supplier relationships to gain access to supplies that we do not have, (iii) implementing indexed pricing, (iv) reducing the complexity of our formulations and (v) evaluating whether it is more profitable to buy or make an ingredient. We are also concentrating on local country sourcing with our own procurement professionals.

Manufacturing and Distribution

We have 34 manufacturing sites around the world that support more than 38,000 products. Our major manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, the Netherlands, Spain, Great Britain, Turkey, Brazil, Mexico, China, India, and Singapore. Our supply chain initiatives in developing markets are focused on increasing capacity and investments in key technologies. Within our more mature markets, we tend to focus on consolidation and cost optimization as well as implementing new technologies. In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we develop relationships with third parties








that permit us to expand access to the technologies, capabilities and capacity that we need to better serve our customers.

Based on the regional nature of the Flavors business and the concerns regarding the transportability of raw materials, we have established smaller manufacturing facilities in our local markets that are focused on local needs. Products within the Fragrances business are typically composed of compounds that are more stable and more transportable around the world. Consequently, we have fewer manufacturing facilities within our Fragrances business, which produce compounds and ingredients for global distribution.

In 2015, we continued to invest in our facilities. We expanded our flavors facility located near Johannesburg, South Africa, to add flavor creation, application and sensory laboratories, and a pilot plant. We opened a new flavors facility in the U.S. near Chicago, Illinois and a new creative center and expansion of our manufacturing facilities in Gebze, Turkey. In addition to ongoing construction of a new manufacturing facility in Jakarta, Indonesia, we recently approved a new capital project to construct a second manufacturing facility in China and alsoinitiated a study regarding our existing footprint and manufacturing capabilities that serve the Indian market.

Sustainability

As a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances for a wide variety of consumer products, sustainability has been an important part of how we do business. Our sustainability strategy, which is closely aligned with our Vision 2020 strategy, was first formalized in 2011 and consists of four pillars: our products; our impact; our sources; and our people. While the industry and our Company constantly evolve, we are committed to conducting our business in line with our dedication to the environment, to society and to the shareholders, customers and others that have placed their confidence in us. In 2015, we became a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. We also became the first flavors and fragrances company to join the Together for Sustainability initiative and enter into growing consortium of multinational companies committed to ensuring sustainable practices throughout the supply chain. We were recognized by the CDP, earning a perfect score of 100 in disclosure and an A in performance for our strategies and actions to mitigate climate change. In addition, IFF-LMR Naturals received its fourth For Life Social Responsibility designation, in cooperation with our Vetiver partner in Haiti. The For Life designation recognizes an organization’s adherence to specific sustainability criteria, including transparency, environmental responsibility, fair working conditions and positive relations with producers and local communities.

Governmental Regulation

We develop, produce and market our products in a number of jurisdictions throughout the world and are subject to federal, regional and local legislation and regulations in each of the various countries. Our flavor and many of our fragrance products are intended for the food, beverage and pharmaceutical industries, which are subject to strict quality and regulatory standards. As a result, we are required to meet these strict standards which, in recent years, have become increasingly stringent.

In addition, we are subject to various rules relating to health, work safety and the environment at the local and international levels in the various countries in which we operate. Our manufacturing facilities throughout the world are subject to environmental standards relating to air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the stringency of environmental regulation and enforcement of environmental standards, and the costs of compliance have risen significantly. We expect that the trend of increased regulation will continue in the future.

Our products and operations are subject to regulation by governmental agencies in each of the markets in which we operate. These agencies include (1) the Food and Drug Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate flavors and other ingredients in consumer products, (2) the Environmental Protection Agency and equivalent international agencies that regulate our manufacturing facilities, (3) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate the working conditions in our manufacturing, research laboratories and creative centers, (4) local and international agencies that regulate trade and customs, (5) the Drug Enforcement Administration and other local or international agencies that regulate controlled chemicals that we use in our operations and (6) the Chemical Registration/Notification authorities that regulate chemicals that we use in, or transport to, the various countries in which we manufacture and/or market our products. We have seen an increase in registration and reporting requirements concerning the use of certain chemicals in a number of countries.

Competition

The flavors and fragrances market is part of a larger market which supplies a variety of ingredients and components








that consumer products companies utilize in their products. The broader market includes large multinational companies or smaller regional and local participants which supply products such as seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food-related commodities, fortified products and cosmetic ingredients.

The market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. Based on annual sales, our main competitors consist of (1) the three other large global flavor and fragrance manufacturers, Givaudan, Firmenich and Symrise, (2) mid-sized companies, (3) numerous local and regional manufacturers and (4) consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances. We, together with the other top three companies, represent approximately two-thirds of the total estimated sales in the global flavors and fragrances sub-segment of the broader market.

We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the flavors and fragrances sub-market is based on (1) our understanding of consumers, (2) innovation, arising from the creative skills of our perfumers and flavorists and the technological advances resulting from our research and development activities, (3) our ability to create products which are tailor-made for our customers’ needs, (4) developing strong customer intimacy and (5) driving efficiency in all that we do.

Large multinational customers and, increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers by placing some on “core lists,” giving them priority for development and production of their new or modified products.

To compete more successfully in this environment, we must make continued investments in customer relationships and tailor our research and development efforts to anticipate customers’ needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on certain “core lists.”



Employee Relations

AtDecember 31, 2015, we had approximately 6,700 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 1,550 are employed in the United States. We believe that relations with our employees are good.

Availability of Reports

We make available free of charge on or through the Investor Relations link on our website, www.iff.com, all materials that we file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. During the period covered by this Form 10-K, we made all such materials available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with the SEC.

You may also read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, and you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC in the United States at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.

A copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website, www.iff.com.



Our principal executive offices are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019 (212-765-5500).






















Executive Officers of Registrant

The current executive officers of the Company, as ofMarch 1, 2016, are listed below.

Andreas Fibig54Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerAlison A. Cornell53Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerNicolas Mirzayantz53Group President, FragrancesMatthias Haeni50Group President, FlavorsAhmet Baydar63Executive Vice President, Research and DevelopmentAngelica T. Cantlon64Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources OfficerAnne Chwat56Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryFrancisco Fortanet47Executive Vice President, Operations

Andreas Fibighas served as our Chairman since December 2014 and Chief Executive Officer since September 2014. Mr. Fibig has been a member of our Board of Directors since 2011. From 2008 to 2014, Mr. Fibig served as President and Chairman of the Board of Management of Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the pharmaceutical division of Bayer AG. Prior to this position, Mr. Fibig held a number of positions of increasing responsibility at Pfizer Inc., a research-based pharmaceutical company, including as Senior Vice President in the US Pharmaceutical Operations group from 2007 through 2008 and as President, Latin America, Africa and Middle East from 2006 through 2007.

Alison A. Cornellhas served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2015. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cornell served as Corporate Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Covance Inc., a global drug development company, a position to which she was promoted in May 2012 after serving in two vice president positions of increasing responsibility. Prior to joining Covance in 2004, Ms. Cornell spent 19 years with AT&T, where she held leadership roles and positions of increasing responsibility. Ms. Cornell holds a Bachelor of Arts in psychology and a Master of Business Administration in marketing from Rutgers University. She is a graduate of the Program for Management Development at Harvard Business School, as well as numerous other professional development programs.

Nicolas Mirzayantzhas served as our Group President, Fragrances since January 2007, and originally joined our Company in 1988. Prior to his appointment as Group President, Fragrances, he served as a member of our Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer from October 1, 2009 until February 2010, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care and Regional Manager North America, from March 2005 to December 2006, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care from October 2004 to February 2005, and our Vice President Global Fragrance Business Development from February 2002 to September 2004.

Matthias Haenihas served as our Group President, Flavors since April 2014. Mr. Haeni joined us in 2007 in the role of Regional General Manager, Flavors Greater Asia. In 2010, Mr. Haeni transferred to Hilversum, The Netherlands where he served as Regional General Manager for Flavors Europe, Africa, and the Middle East (EAME).

Ahmet Baydarhas served as our Executive Vice President, Research and Development since August 2015, as our Senior Vice President, Research and Development from September 2010 to August  2015, and as our Vice President, Global Fragrance Research from February 2009 to August 2010. Prior to joining us, Dr. Baydar served as a Director of Shave Care and Integrated Shaving Systems at The Procter & Gamble Company, a branded consumer packaged goods company, and Vice President of R&D-Personal Care at The Gillette Company, a personal care products company.

Angelica T. Cantlonhas served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since August  2015 and as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources fromAugust 2009 to August 2015. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cantlon served as Senior Vice President-International Chief Administrative Officer of MetLife, Inc., an insurance and financial services company, from June 2005 to August 2009, and Senior Vice President- Human Resources Business Leader, of Metlife from September 1999 to June 2005.

Anne Chwathas served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2015 and as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from April 2011 to August 2015.  Prior to joining us, Ms. Chwat served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Burger King Holdings, Inc., a fast food hamburger restaurant company, from September 2004 to April 2011. From September 2000 to September 2004, Ms. Chwat served in various positions at BMG Music (now Sony Music Entertainment), including as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer.








Francisco Fortanethas served as Executive Vice President, Operations since August 2015 and as Senior Vice President, Operations from February 27, 2012 to August 2015. Mr. Fortanet joined our Company in 1995, and has served as our Vice President, Global Manufacturing Compounding from January 2007 to February 2012, our Vice President, Global Manufacturing from January 2006 to January 2007, our Regional Director of North America Operations from December 2003 to January 2005, the Project Manager of a Special Project in IFF Ireland from May 2003 to December 2003 and as our Plant Manager in Hazlet, New Jersey from October 1999 to May 2003.





