ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



We create, manufacture and supply flavors and fragrances for the food, beverage, personal care and household products industries either in the form of compounds or individual ingredients. Our flavors and fragrances compounds combine a large number of ingredients that are blended, mixed or reacted together to produce proprietary formulas created by our perfumers and flavorists. Utilizing our capabilities in consumer insight, research and product development (“R&D”) and creative expertise, we collaborate with our customers to drive consumer preference for our customers’ brands. This collaboration in turn helps bolster our customers’ market share and grow equity in their brand portfolio.



The global market for flavors and fragrances has expanded consistently, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for, as well as an increase in the variety of, consumer products containing flavors and fragrances. The flavors and fragrances market is part of a larger market which supplies a variety of ingredients and components that consumer products companies utilize in their products. The broader market includes large multinational companies and smaller regional and local participants which supply products such as seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food related commodities, fortified products and cosmetic ingredients. In 2014, we achieved sales of approximately $3.1 billion, making us one of the top four companies in the global flavors and fragrances sub-segment of the broader ingredients and compounds market. Within the flavors and fragrances sub-segment of this broader market, the top four companies comprise approximately two-thirds of the total estimated sales. We believe that our diversified business platform consisting of expansive geographic coverage, a broad product portfolio and a global and regional customer base, positions us to achieve long-term growth as the flavors and fragrances markets expand.



With operations in 32 different countries worldwide and approximately 6,200 employees, we collaborate with our customers to serve consumers in more than 100 countries. We operate in two business segments, Flavors and Fragrances, with sales to customers in the four regions set forth below:



Region% of 2014 SalesEurope, Africa, Middle East34%Greater Asia28%North America22%Latin America16%



We have a strong commitment to emerging markets. We believe that significant future growth potential for the flavors and fragrances industry, and for our business, exists in the emerging markets (all markets except North America, Japan, Australia, and Western, Southern and Northern Europe). Over the past five years our local currency growth rate in emerging markets has significantly outpaced that of developed markets. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. The emerging market local currency growth rate in 2014 was 6%. We have had operations in some of the largest emerging markets for multiple decades. As a result of these established operations, sales in emerging markets represented 50% of 2014 sales, up from 49% in 2013. As our customers in emerging markets grow their businesses, they will have the ability to leverage our long-standing presence and our extensive market knowledge to help drive their brands.



We believe we have a diversified product and customer portfolio that provides us with greater stability and growth potential across a variety of economic environments. In 2014, our Flavors business represented 47% of our sales, while our Fragrances business represented 53% of sales. During 2014, our 25 largest customers accounted for 53% of our sales. Sales to our largest customer accounted for 12%, 12% and 11% of our sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Such sales were largely in our Fragrances business.



For financial information about our operating segments and the geographic areas in which we do business, please see Note 12 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.












Strategic Priorities



We are focused on generating sustainable profitable growth across our business. We believe that we can continue to deliver returns above cost of capital on a long-term basis and increase shareholder value by leveraging our geographic reach, strengthening our innovation platform and maximizing our portfolio. We are in the process of refreshing the key elements of our strategic priorities, which are the following:

•Leverage geographic reach:Our strong geographic reach allows us to capture the benefits of attractive population growth and wealth creation in emerging markets, representing a key component of our growth plan. In emerging markets, strong GDP growth and a significant expansion of the middle-class consumer are increasing the demand for better-flavored and fragranced consumer products. To support this trend, we have made significant investments in emerging markets. Since 2008, we have opened eight state-of-the-art creative centers in Shanghai, Sao Paulo, Moscow, Singapore, Mumbai, Delhi, Chengdu, and Beijing. We continue to invest in the fast growing region of Greater Asia. In 2013, we opened a new flavors manufacturing facility in Guangzhou, China, which followed the 2012 opening of our new flavor and fragrance facility in Singapore, both of which are part of a more than $100 million investment in Greater Asia. We also announced a $50 million investment to fund our expansion in Indonesia, bringing our total investment in Greater Asia to more than $150 million. We also continued toward the completion of our more than $50 million expansion in Turkey, expected to be completed in 2015. We expect that the emerging markets will represent more than half of our annual sales in 2015, as we estimate that growth potential in these markets will outpace the expected growth in the developed markets.

•Strengthen innovation platform:We continue to focus on creating innovative and distinctive products that meet consumer needs and drive consumer preference for our customers’ brands. We have been strengthening our platforms by leveraging our knowledge of consumer trends to direct ten key research platforms that address current and expected future needs of consumers. We in turn use our customer-centric knowledge and research platforms to drive technological development and create a cost-effective product portfolio. We anticipate that this focus on innovation will be instrumental in meeting future consumer needs, thereby driving our customers' growth and in turn market share gains for both IFF and our customers. To capture these opportunities in Flavors, we are focusing on key flavor systems technologies to provide consumers with healthier solutions and an enhanced taste experience. In Fragrances, we are focusing on ingredients, including our naturals portfolio, as well as our delivery systems. In 2014, we acquired Aromor Flavors and Fragrances Ltd. ("Aromor"), a manufacturer and marketer of complex specialty ingredients that are used in fragrances and flavors, to provide us with cost-effective, quality ingredients to use in our compounds creations.

•Maximize portfolio:We believe in a disciplined, analytical approach toward value creation to maximize our portfolio and drive sustained profitable growth. We continuously look for and identify opportunities to strengthen and grow the business through internal improvements, disciplined allocation of resources towards advantaged categories, customers and/or markets, working capital management and return-based capital investments.

Our Product Offerings

Flavors

Flavors are the key building blocks that impart taste in processed food and beverage products and, as such, play a significant role in determining consumer preference of the end products in which they are used. While we are a global leader, our Flavors business is regional in nature, with different formulas that reflect local taste and ingredients. As a leading creator of flavor compounds, we help our customers deliver on the promise of delicious and healthy foods and drinks that appeal to consumers. Our Flavors compounds are ultimately used by our customers in four end-use categories: (1) Savory, (2) Beverages, (3) Sweet, pharmaceutical and oral care (“Sweet”), and (4) Dairy. We create our flavors in our regional creative and technical centers that allow us to satisfy local taste preferences, while also helping to ensure regulatory compliance and production standards. We also manufacture a limited amount of flavor ingredients for our use in developing flavor compounds.



•Savory- We produce flavors which are used in soups, sauces, condiments, prepared meals, meat and poultry, and potato chips and other savory snacks.



•Beverages- We create flavors for juice drinks, carbonated beverages, flavored waters and spirits and have creative expertise dedicated to beverage flavor systems.



•Sweet- We create innovative flavor concepts and heat-stable flavors for bakery products, as well as candy, chewing gum and cereal, which each have distinctive sweet tastes. For pharmaceutical and oral care products, we produce flavors for products such as toothpaste and mouthwash.












•Dairy- We offer a complete range of value-added compounded flavors for all dairy applications, including yogurt, ice cream, cheese, cream and butter flavor. We also offer a wide range of quality vanilla extracts and a variety of flavor solutions that build on our understanding of vanilla.



We develop thousands of different flavors and taste offerings for our customers, most of which are tailor-made. We continuously develop new formulas in order to meet changing consumer preferences and customer needs. Consumers, especially those in developed markets such as the United States and Western Europe, are increasingly seeking to focus on products which promote health and wellness. They want food and beverage products that are both good for them and taste good. Our objective is to capture a significant share of this shift in consumer demand by capitalizing on the ability of our naturals and proprietary ingredients and flavor systems technologies to provide consumers with healthier solutions without changing the taste experience of the food or beverage.

Fragrances



We are a global leader in the creation of fragrances. Our fragrances are a key component in the world’s finest perfumes and best-known consumer brands, including fabric care, home care, personal wash, hair care and toiletries. Our Fragrances business consists of Fragrance Compounds and Fragrance Ingredients.

•Fragrance Compounds— In 2014, we realigned our creative and commercial teams within Fragrance Compounds into two broad market categories: Fine Fragrances and Consumer Fragrances. Fragrance Compounds refers to our fragrance compounds that are ultimately used by our customers in these two market categories.

◦Fine Fragrances— We have created some of the industry-leading fine fragrance classics as well as cutting-edge niche fragrances, as evidenced by our number of top sellers and the success of our new launches.

◦Consumer Fragrances— Our consumer fragrances include five end-use categories of products: (1) Fabric Care, including laundry detergents, fabric softeners and specialty laundry products; (2)  Home Care, including household cleaners, dishwashing detergents and air fresheners; (3) Personal Wash, including bar soap and shower gel; (4) Hair Care; and (5) Toiletries.

•Fragrance Ingredients— We create, develop and manufacture a broad portfolio of innovative, high-quality and cost-effective fragrance, and to a much smaller extent flavor, ingredients, for internal use in our compound businesses and for external use in preparation of compounds by our customers and other third parties, including our competitors. With over 1,200 separate fragrance ingredients, we believe that we lead the industry with the breadth of our product portfolio. We manufacture our ingredients through our global network of production facilities and continue to work to optimize our manufacturing processes, as we have done during the year through the closure of our Augusta facility. We believe that this network gives us the flexibility to make products in different locations while maintaining the same high and consistent standards of product quality. We will continue to look for opportunities to strengthen this component of our portfolio, particularly in the specialty chemicals area, as evidenced by our 2014 acquisition of Aromor, while at the same time ensuring we maintain a cost-effective portfolio, particularly in the price sensitive commodities component.



We believe that our in-house naturals operations, led by Laboratoire Monique Rémy (“LMR”) in Grasse, France, are industry leading in the processing quality materials and offer decades of experience understanding natural products and perfecting the process of transforming naturals, such as narcissus, jasmine and blackcurrant bud, into pure absolutes that retain the unique fragrance of their origin.



Our perfumers have access to our large portfolio of innovative, high-quality and cost-effective ingredients to support their creativity, which in turn provides our customers with a unique identity for their brands. We also create innovative delivery systems, including (i) our proprietary encapsulation technology, which consists of individual fragrance droplets coated with a protective polymetric shell to deliver superior fragrance performance throughout a product’s lifecycle and (ii) our exclusive polymer delivery system, PolyIFF, which is a “solid fragrance” technology that allows us to add scent to functional or molded plastic.



We also collaborate with some of the world’s leading art and fashion schools to tap into the creative minds of the future leaders of fashion and design. We collaborate with scientists, writers, artists, musicians and film-makers  to expose our perfumers to new and constantly evolving creative territories and approaches.














Core Competencies



We focus on five core competencies that we believe enable us to (i) successfully provide our customers with superior products, (ii) drive productivity and efficiency gains and (iii) improve our margins and our cash flow. In that regard, we strive to:

•Develop a deep understanding of consumers’ preferences, values and branding. Through our Consumer Insights program, we have dedicated professionals working to understand consumer trends all around the globe. Our consumer and marketing teams interpret consumer trends, monitor product launches, analyze quantitative market data and conduct several hundred thousand consumer interviews annually. Our sensory experts explore flavor and fragrance performance, the psychophysics of sensory perception (including chemesthetic properties such as warming, cooling and tingling), the genetic basis for flavor and fragrance preference, and the effects of tastes and aromas on mood, performance, health and well-being. Utilizing our proprietary statistical programs, we use this information to enable us to understand the emotional connections between a prospective product and the consumer. The ability to pinpoint the likelihood of a product’s success translates into stronger brand equity for our customers’ products, a higher likelihood of repeat purchases and market share gains for our customers and us, as well as a more efficient creative process within IFF.



•Develop and utilize technology to create innovative solutions that drive brand success. We spend approximately 8% of our sales on the research, development and implementation of new molecules, compounds and technologies that help our customers respond to changing consumer preference. As a result of this investment, we have been granted 259 patents in the United States since 2000, including 8 in 2014, and we have developed many unique molecules and delivery systems for our customers that are used as the foundations of successful flavors and fragrances around the world.



•Cultivate our creative expertise in collaboration with our customers. We have a network of creative centers around the world where we create or adapt the basic flavors or fragrances that we have developed in the R&D process to commercialize for use in our customers’ consumer products. Our global creative teams consist of perfumers, fragrance evaluators and flavorists, as well as marketing, consumer insight and technical application experts, from a wide range of cultures and nationalities. In close partnership with our customers’ product development groups, our creative teams create the scents and tastes that our customers are seeking in order to satisfy consumer demands in each of their markets.



•Develop strong customer intimacy. We believe that understanding our customers’ brands, technologies; strategies and priorities enable us to provide them with superior products and solutions.  This, combined with supply chain excellence and our global regulatory capabilities are key to being selected as a preferred/“core list supplier”.



•Drive efficiency in all that we do.We focus on integrating our consumer insight, technology, creative, regulatory and manufacturing expertise in a manner that we believe drives productivity and efficiency to improve profitability on a long-term basis. We believe that discipline in driving efficiencies is a significant factor in our ability to simultaneously enhance margins and cash flows, while continuing to invest in our key growth initiatives.

Research and Product Development



We consider our R&D development infrastructure to be one of our key competencies and we focus and invest substantial resources in the research and development of new and innovative compounds, formulas and technologies and the application of these to our customers’ products. Using the knowledge gained from our Consumer Insights program, we strategically focus our resources around key R&D platforms that address consumer needs or preferences, or anticipate a future preference. By aligning our resources around these platforms, we ensure the proper support and focus for each program so that it can be further developed and eventually be accepted for commercial application.



We maintain six R&D centers around the world, where we employ scientists and application engineers to support (i) the discovery of new materials, (ii) the development of new technologies, such as our delivery systems, (iii) the creation of new compounds and (iv) the enhancement of existing ingredients and compounds. In our 31 creative centers around the world, including our newest facilities in Shanghai, Sao Paulo, Moscow, Singapore, Mumbai, Delhi, Chengdu, and Beijing, teams of flavorists and perfumers work with our customers’ product development groups to create the exact scent or taste they are seeking. In 2014, we employed about 1,250 people in research and product development activities. We spent $254 million, $260 million and $234 million, or approximately 8%, 9% and 8% of sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, on R&D activities.












Our ingredients research program discovers molecules found in natural substances and creates new molecules that are subsequently tested for their fragrance or flavor value. To broaden our offering of natural, innovative and unique products, we seek collaborations with research institutions and other companies throughout the world. We have created a number of such collaborations, for example, our ongoing relationship with Amyris, which strengthens and broadens the pipeline of new and innovative molecules that we intend to launch in the coming years. To further strengthen and broaden our technology offerings and capabilities, we acquired Aromor in January 2014 to provide us with cost-effective complex specialty ingredients.



The development of new and customized flavor and fragrance compounds is a complex process calling upon the combined knowledge of our scientists, flavorists and perfumers. Scientists from various disciplines work in project teams with the flavorists and perfumers to develop flavor and fragrance compounds with consumer preferred performance characteristics. The development of new flavor and fragrance compounds requires (i) in-depth knowledge of the flavor and fragrance characteristics of the various ingredients we use, (ii) an understanding of how the many ingredients in a consumer product interact and (iii) the creation of controlled release and delivery systems to enhance flavor and fragrance performance. To facilitate this process, we have a scientific advisory board comprised of five leading scientists that provide external perspectives and independent feedback on our R&D initiatives.



Development of new flavors and fragrances is driven by a variety of sources including requests from our customers, who are in need of a specific flavor or fragrance for use in a new or modified consumer product, or as a result of internal initiatives stemming from our Consumer Insights program. Our product development team works in partnership with our scientists and researchers to optimize the consumer appeal of the flavor or fragrance. A collaborative process between our researchers, our product development team and our customers then follows to perfect the flavor or fragrance so that it is ready to be included in the final consumer product.



In addition to creating new flavors and fragrances, our researchers and product development teams advise customers on ways to improve their existing products by adjusting or substituting current ingredients with more readily accessible or less expensive materials or by modifying the current ingredients to produce an enhanced yield. This often results in creating a better value proposition for our customers.



Our flavor and fragrance formulas are treated as trade secrets and remain our proprietary asset. Our business is not materially dependent upon any individual patent, trademark or license.

Supply Chain



We have an integrated supply chain from raw material sourcing through manufacturing, quality assurance, regulatory compliance and distribution, which permits us to provide our customers with consistent quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis.



Procurement. The ingredients that we use in our compounds are both natural and synthetic. We purchase approximately 8,500 different raw materials from about 2,300 domestic and international suppliers. Approximately half of the materials we purchase are naturals or crop related items and the other half are synthetics and chemicals. Natural ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products as well as from animal products. They contain varying numbers of organic chemicals that are responsible for the fragrance or flavor of the natural product. The natural products are purchased in processed or semi-processed form. Some are used in compounds in the state in which they are purchased and others after further processing. Natural products, together with various chemicals, are also used as raw materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes. Our flavor products also include extracts and seasonings derived from various fruits, vegetables, nuts, herbs and spices as well as microbiologically-derived ingredients. We manufacture most of our synthetic ingredients for use in our fragrance compounds as well as for sale to others.



While we purchase a diverse portfolio of raw materials, about 80% of our spending is focused on approximately 800 materials, which allows us to leverage our buying power with suppliers. In order to ensure our supply of raw materials, achieve favorable pricing and provide timely transparency regarding inflationary trends to our customers, we continue to be focused on (i) implementing a forward-buy strategy, (ii) entering into supplier relationships to gain access to supplies that we do not have, (iii) implementing indexed pricing, (iv) reducing the complexity of our formulations and (v) evaluating whether it is more profitable to buy or make an ingredient. We are also concentrating on local country sourcing with our own procurement professionals.



Manufacturing and Distribution.We have 29 manufacturing sites around the world that support more than 36,000 products. Our major manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, the Netherlands, Spain, Great Britain, Turkey, Brazil, Mexico, Australia, China, India, and Singapore. Our supply chain initiatives in developing markets are focused on










increasing capacity and investments in key technologies, while within our more mature markets, we tend to focus on consolidation and cost optimization as well as implementing new technologies. In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we develop relationships with third parties that permit us to expand the technologies, capabilities and capacity that we can access to serve our customers.



Based on the regional nature of the Flavors business and the concerns regarding the transportability of raw materials, we have established smaller manufacturing facilities in our local markets that are focused on local needs. Products within the Fragrances business are typically composed of compounds that are more stable and more transportable around the world. Consequently, we have fewer manufacturing facilities within our Fragrances business, which produce compounds and ingredients for global distribution.



In 2014, we continued to invest in our facilities, notably in emerging markets. We opened our new Creative & Applications lab at our existing facility in Jakarta, Indonesia and opened a new sales office and laboratory in Chile. Construction is also ongoing of a new creative center and expansion of our manufacturing facilities in Gebze, Turkey.



Sustainability.As a leading global creator of flavors and fragrances for a wide variety of consumer products, sustainability has been an important part of how we do business. Our sustainability strategy, which is closely aligned with our long-term business strategy, was first formalized in 2011 and consists of four pillars: our products; our impact; our sources; and our people. While the industry and our Company constantly evolves, we are committed to conducting our business in line with our dedication to the environment, to society and to the shareholders, customers and others that have placed their confidence in us. In 2014, we were identified as a leader in Climate Change Reporting and will be included in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index compiled by the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project).In addition, during 2014 a third party completed the installation of a solar panel field on IFF property. The solar panel field is the largest in the industry. In addition to the installation of the solar panel field, the agreement we entered into also called for the third party, who is the owner of the solar panels, to operate and maintain the installation for a multi-year period.

Governmental Regulation



We develop, produce and market our products in a number of jurisdictions throughout the world and are subject to federal, regional and local legislation and regulations in each of the various countries. Our flavor and many of our fragrance products are intended for the food, beverage and pharmaceutical industries, which are subject to strict quality and regulatory standards. As a result, we are required to meet these strict standards which, in recent years, have become increasingly stringent.



In addition, we are subject to various rules relating to health, work safety and the environment at the local and international levels in the various countries in which we operate. Our manufacturing facilities throughout the world are subject to environmental standards relating to air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the stringency of environmental regulation and enforcement of environmental standards, and the costs of compliance have risen significantly. We expect that the trend of increased regulation and disclosure will continue in the future.



Our products and operations are subject to regulation by governmental agencies in each of the markets in which we operate. These agencies include (1) the Food and Drug Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate the flavors and other ingredients in consumer products, (2) the Environmental Protection Agency and equivalent international agencies that regulate our fragrance compounds, (3) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate the working conditions in our manufacturing, research laboratories and creative centers, (4) local and international agencies that regulate trade and customs, (5) the Drug Enforcement Administration and other local or international agencies that regulate controlled chemicals that we use in our operations and (6) the Chemical Registration/Notification authorities that regulate chemicals that we use in, or transport to, the various countries in which we manufacture and/or market our products. We have seen an increase in registration and reporting requirements concerning the use of certain chemicals in a number of countries.

Competition



The flavors and fragrances market is part of a larger market which supplies a variety of ingredients and components that consumer products companies utilize in their products. The broader market includes large multinational companies or smaller regional and local participants which supply products such as seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food related commodities, fortified products and cosmetic ingredients.












The market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. Based on annual sales, our main competitors consist of (1) the three other large global flavor and fragrance manufacturers, Givaudan, Firmenich and Symrise, (2) mid-sized companies, (3) numerous small and local manufacturers with more limited research and development capabilities who focus on narrow market segments and local customers and (4) consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances. We, together with the other top three companies, represent approximately two-thirds of the total estimated sales in the global flavors and fragrances sub-segment of the broader market.



We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the flavors and fragrances market is based on (1) our understanding of consumers, (2) innovation, arising from the creative skills of our perfumers and flavorists and the technological advances resulting from our research and development activities, (3) our ability to create products which are tailor-made for our customers’ needs, (4) developing strong customer intimacy and (5) driving efficiency in all that we do.



Large multinational customers and, increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers, placing some on “core lists,” giving them priority for development and production of their new or modified products.

To compete more successfully in this environment, we must make continued investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers’ needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on certain “core lists.”



Employee Relations



At December 31, 2014, we had approximately 6,200 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 1,400 are employed in the United States. We believe that relations with our employees are good.

Availability of Reports



We make available free of charge on or through the Investor Relations link on our website, www.iff.com, all materials that we file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. During the period covered by this Form 10-K, we made all such materials available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with the SEC.



You may also read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, and you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC in the United States at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.



A copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website, www.iff.com.



Our principal executive offices are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019 (212-765-5500).

Executive Officers of Registrant

The current executive officers of the Company, as of March 2, 2015, are listed below.

Andreas Fibig53Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerRichard A. O’Leary54Interim Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and ControllerNicolas Mirzayantz52Group President, FragrancesMatthias Haeni49Group President, FlavorsAhmet Baydar62Senior Vice President, Research and DevelopmentAngelica T. Cantlon63Senior Vice President, Human ResourcesAnne Chwat55Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryFrancisco Fortanet46Senior Vice President, Operations












Andreas Fibighas served as our Chairman since December 2014 and Chief Executive Officer since September 2014. Mr. Fibig has been a member of our Board of Directors since 2011.  Previously, Mr. Fibig served as President and Chairman of the Board of Management of Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the pharmaceutical division of Bayer AG, since September 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Fibig held a number of positions of increasing responsibility at Pfizer Inc., a research-based pharmaceutical company, including as Senior Vice President in the US Pharmaceutical Operations group from 2007 through 2008 and as President, Latin America, Africa and Middle East from 2006 through 2007.



Richard A. O’Learyhas served as our Interim Chief Financial Officer since December 2014 and as our Vice President and Controller since June 2009. Mr. O’Leary joined our Company in July 2007, and served as our Vice President, Corporate Development from July 2007 to May 2009, and as our Interim Chief Financial Officer from July 2008 to May 2009. Prior to joining us, Mr. O’Leary served in various positions since 1986 at International Paper Co., a paper and packaging company, including, as Chief Financial Officer of International Paper Company (Brazil) from June 2004 to June 2007.

Nicolas Mirzayantzhas served as our Group President, Fragrances since January 2007, and originally joined our Company in 1988. Prior to his appointment as Group President, Fragrances, he served as a member of our Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer from October 1, 2009 until February 2010, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care and Regional Manager North America, from March 2005 to December 2006, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care from October 2004 to February 2005, and our Vice President Global Fragrance Business Development from February 2002 to September 2004.

Matthias Haenihas served as our Group President, Flavors since April 2014. Mr. Haeni joined us in 2007 in the role of Regional General Manager, Flavors Greater Asia. In 2010, Mr. Haeni transferred to Hilversum, The Netherlands where he served as Regional General Manager for Flavors Europe, Africa, and the Middle East (EAME).

Ahmet Baydarhas served as our Senior Vice President, Research and Development since September 2010, and as our Vice President, Global Fragrance Research from February 2009 to August 2010. Prior to joining us, Dr. Baydar served as a Director of Shave Care and Integrated Shaving Systems at The Procter & Gamble Company, a branded consumer packaged goods company, and Vice President of R&D-Personal Care at The Gillette Company, a personal care products company.

Angelica T. Cantlonhas served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 2009. Prior to joining us, Ms. Cantlon served as Senior Vice President-International Chief Administrative Officer of MetLife, Inc., an insurance and financial services company, from June 2005 to August 2009, and Senior Vice President-Human Resources Business Leader, of Metlife from September 1999 to June 2005.

Anne Chwathas served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since April 2011. Prior to joining us, Ms. Chwat served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Burger King Holdings, Inc., a fast food hamburger restaurant company, from September 2004 to April 2011. From September 2000 to September 2004, Ms. Chwat served in various positions at BMG Music (now Sony Music Entertainment), including as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer.

Francisco Fortanethas served as Senior Vice President, Operations since February 27, 2012. Mr. Fortanet joined our Company in 1995, and has served as our Vice President, Global Manufacturing Compounding from January 2007 to February 2012, our Vice President, Global Manufacturing from January 2006 to January 2007, our Regional Director of North America Operations from December 2003 to January 2005, the Project Manager of a Special Project in IFF Ireland from May 2003 to December 2003 and as our Plant Manager in Hazlet, New Jersey from October 1999 to May 2003.





