ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., incorporated in New York in 1909, and its
subsidiaries (the “Registrant”, “IFF”, “we”, “us” and “our”), is a leading creator and manufacturer
of flavor and fragrance products used by other manufacturers to impart or improve flavor or
fragrance in a wide variety of consumer products. Fragrance products are sold principally to
manufacturers of perfumes, cosmetics, personal care products, hair care products, deodorants,
soaps, detergents, fabric care and air care products; our flavor products are sold principally to
manufacturers of prepared foods, beverages, pharmaceuticals, dairy and confectionery products as
well as the food service industry.

We currently have 30 manufacturing facilities with the major manufacturing facilities located
in the United States, Great Britain, the Netherlands, Spain, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Australia,
China, India, Indonesia, Japan and Singapore. The remaining manufacturing facilities are located in
8 other countries. We maintain our own sales and distribution facilities in 33 countries and are
represented by sales agents and distributors in other countries. Our principal executive offices
are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019 (212-765-5500).

MARKETS

Our flavor products are sold principally to the food and beverage industries for use in
consumer products such as soft drinks, non-carbonated drinks, candies, baked goods, desserts,
prepared foods, dietary foods, dairy products, drink powders, pharmaceuticals, snack foods and
alcoholic beverages. Two of our largest customers for flavor products are major producers of
prepared foods and beverages in the United States. In the three years ended December 31, 2010, 2009
and 2008, sales of flavor products accounted for 46% of our total sales.

Our fragrance products are used by customers in the manufacture of various consumer goods in
the home and personal care markets. The home market consists of laundry detergents, fabric care,
candles, air fresheners and all-purpose cleaners. The personal care market consists of perfumes,
colognes, after-shave lotions, skin care, lipsticks, deodorants and hair preparations. Most of the
major global and regional manufacturers in each of these categories are our customers. Five of the
largest global consumer products companies are among our principal customers. In the three years
ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, sales of fragrance products accounted for 54% of our total
sales.

See Note 12, Segment Information, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
information concerning the two business segments, Flavors and Fragrances, and our geographic
regions.

PRODUCTS

Our principal fragrance and flavor products consist of compounds of large numbers of
ingredients blended in proprietary formulas created by our perfumers and flavorists. Most of these
compounds contribute the total fragrance or flavor to the consumer products in which they are used.
This fragrance or flavor characteristic is often a major factor in the consumer selection and
acceptance of the consumer end product. A smaller number of compounds are sold to manufacturers who
further blend them to achieve the finished fragrance or flavor in their products. We produce
thousands of compounds, and new compounds are constantly being created in order to meet the many
and changing characteristics of our customers’ end products. Most of the fragrance and flavor
compounds are created and produced for the exclusive use of particular customers. Our products are
sold in powder and liquid forms and in amounts ranging from a few pounds to many tons, depending
upon the nature of the product.

The ingredients that we use in our compounds are both synthetic and natural. We manufacture a
substantial portion of the synthetic ingredients. While a majority of our synthetic ingredients
production is used in our compounds, a substantial portion is also sold to others. Natural
ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products as well as from animal
products. They contain varying numbers of organic chemicals, which are responsible for the
fragrance or flavor of the natural product. The natural products are purchased in processed or
semi-processed form. Some are used in compounds in the state in which they are purchased and others
after further processing. Natural products, together with various chemicals, are also used as raw
materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes. Our flavor products
also include extracts and seasonings derived from various fruits, vegetables, nuts, herbs and
spices as well as microbiologically-derived ingredients.





MARKET DEVELOPMENTS

The demand for consumer products utilizing flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and
broadened by changing social habits resulting from various factors such as increases in personal
income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, urbanization, health and wellness
concerns, including increased demand for nature based products and by the continued growth of
emerging markets. In the fragrance field, these developments expanded the market for hair care,
candles and air care products and deodorant and personal wash products with finer fragrance
quality, as well as the market for colognes, toilet waters, men’s toiletries and other products
beyond traditional luxury items such as perfumes. In the flavor field, similar market
characteristics stimulated the demand for products such as convenience foods, soft drinks and
low-fat and organic food products that must conform to expected tastes. New and improved methods of
packaging, applying and dispensing have been developed for many consumer products that utilize some
of our flavor or fragrance products. These developments called for the creation of new compounds
and ingredients compatible with the newly introduced materials and methods of application.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH

The development of new flavors and fragrances is a complex technical and artistic process
calling upon the combined knowledge and skill of our creative perfumers and flavorists, and our
scientists. With extensive experience, the perfumers and flavorists continuously advance their
skills for creating fragrances or flavors best suited to the market requirements of the customers’
products.

Scientists from various disciplines work in project teams with the perfumers and flavorists to
develop flavor and fragrance products with consumer preferred performance characteristics.
Scientific expertise includes: natural products research, plant science, organic chemistry,
analytical chemistry, biochemistry, microbiology, process engineering, food science, material
science and sensory science. Analytical and sensory science is applied to understand the complex
interactions of the many ingredients in a consumer product in order to optimize the flavor or
fragrance performance at all points of use. Material science technology is applied to create
controlled release and delivery systems to enhance flavor and fragrance performance in consumer
products. An important contribution to the creation of new flavor and fragrances is the discovery
and development of new ingredients having improved fragrance or flavor value. The ingredients
research program discovers molecules found in natural substances and creates new molecules that are
subsequently tested for their fragrance or flavor value. The new molecules that meet rigorous
requirements for commercial development are subsequently transferred to manufacturing operations
for production.

Creative and technical product development is conducted in 33 fragrance and flavor
laboratories in 26 countries. We maintain a research and development center at Union Beach, New
Jersey. We spent $219 million in 2010, $185 million in 2009 and $197 million in 2008 on our
research and development activities or about 8% of our revenues each year. We expect these
expenditures to remain at this percentage level for 2011. Of the amount expended in 2010 on such
activities, 54% was for fragrances and the balance was for flavors. We employed 1,117 persons in
2010 and 1,091 persons in 2009 in such activities.

Our business is not materially dependent upon any patents, trademarks or licenses.

DISTRIBUTION

Distribution for our flavors and fragrances business units is similar in that most of our
sales are through our own sales force. The flavors business operates from two sales offices in the
United States and 38 sales offices in 30 foreign countries, while the fragrances business operates
from two sales offices in the United States and 36 sales offices in 29 foreign countries. Sales in
additional countries are made through agents and distributors. For the year ended December 31,
2010, 34% of our sales were to customers in Europe, Africa and Middle East (“EAME”), 26% in Greater
Asia, 25% in North America and 15% in Latin America.





During 2010, our 25 largest customers accounted for 52% of our sales. Sales to our largest
customer accounted for 10% of our sales in 2010 and 11% in 2009 and 2008. These sales were largely
in the fragrance business unit.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation in the United States by the
Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration,
the Drug Enforcement Administration, state authorities and U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
Foreign subsidiaries are subject to similar regulation in a number of countries. In particular, the
European Union will require extensive chemical registration and testing over the next 7 years.
Compliance with existing governmental requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the
environment has not materially affected our operations, earnings or competitive position. In 2011,
we expect to spend approximately $6 to $7 million on capital projects and approximately $18 million
in operating expenses and governmental charges for the purpose of complying with such requirements.

RAW MATERIAL PURCHASES

We purchase roughly 10,000 different raw materials from many sources all over the world. The
principal natural raw materials consist of essential oils, extracts and concentrates which are
derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products and raw
fruits. The principal synthetic raw material purchases consist of organic chemicals. We believe
that alternate materials or alternate sources of materials are available to enable us to maintain
our competitive position in the event of any interruption in the supply of raw materials from
present sources.

COMPETITION

We have more than 50 competitors in the world markets. IFF is one of the top four companies,
which together represent approximately 70% of the flavors and fragrances industry. While no single
factor is responsible, our competitive position is based principally on the creative skills of our
perfumers and flavorists, the technological advances resulting from our research and development
activities, the quality of our customer service, the support provided by our marketing and
application groups, and our understanding of consumers. We believe that we are one of the largest
companies producing and marketing, on an international basis, a wide range of fragrance and flavor
products for sale to manufacturers of consumer products. In particular countries and localities, we
face competition from numerous companies specializing in certain product lines, among which are
some companies larger than us and some more important in a particular product line or lines. Most
of our customers do not buy all of their fragrance or flavor products from the same supplier, and
some customers make their own fragrance or flavor compounds with ingredients supplied by us or
others.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

At December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 5,500 persons, of whom approximately 1,400
were employed in the United States. We have not experienced a work stoppage or strike and consider
our employee relations to be satisfactory.





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

The current executive officers of the Company, as of February 24, 2011, are listed below.



Year

First

Became

NameOffice and Other Business Experience (1)AgeOfficer



Douglas D. ToughChairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer since March 2010;
Director since October 2008; Chief
Executive Officer and Managing Director
of Ansell Limited prior thereto.612010



Kevin C. BerrymanExecutive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer since May 2009; Chief
Financial Officer, Nestle Professional,
Americas, a global foodservice
manufacturer, from October 2008 to May
2009; Senior Vice President Group
Controller, Nestle S.A., an
international food and beverage
company, from June 2006 to September
2008; Chief Financial Officer, Nestle
Purina Petcare prior thereto.522009



Beth E. FordExecutive Vice President, Supply Chain
since October 2008; Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer,
Hachette Book Group, a leading US trade
publisher, from September 2007 to
September 2008; Senior Vice President,
Global Operations and Information
Technology, Scholastic, Inc., a global
publishing, education and media
company, prior thereto.462008



Nicolas MirzayantzGroup President, Fragrances since
January 2007; Senior Vice President,
Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care and
Regional Manager, North America, from
April 2005 to December 2006; Senior
Vice President, Fine Fragrance and
Beauty Care prior thereto.482002



Hernan VaismanGroup President, Flavors since January
2007; Vice President, Latin America,
from October 2004 to December 2006;
Regional Finance Director, Latin
America Region, prior thereto.522004



Ahmet BaydarSenior Vice President, Research and
Development since September 2010; Vice
President, Global Fragrance Research
from February 2009 to August 2010;
Director of Shave Care and Integrated
Shaving Systems, The Procter &
Gamble Company, prior thereto.582010



Angelica T. CantlonSenior Vice President, Human Resources
since August 2009; Senior Vice
President-International Chief
Administrative Officer, MetLife, Inc.,
an insurance and financial services
company, from June 2005 to August 2009;
Senior Vice President-Human Resources
Business Leader, prior thereto.592009



Richard A. O’LearyVice President and Controller since
June 2009; Interim Chief Financial
Officer from July 2008 to May 2009;
Vice President, Corporate Development
from July 2007 to May 2009; Finance
Director, International Paper’s, a
paper and packaging company, Brazilian
affiliate prior thereto.502007

(1)Employed by the Company or an affiliated company for the last five years, except
as otherwise indicated.





We make available free of charge on or through the Investor Relations link on our
website,www.iff.com, all materials that we file electronically with the SEC, including our annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to
those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or
furnishing them to, the SEC. During the period covered by this Form 10-K, we made all such
materials available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such
materials with the SEC.

You may also read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, and you may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC in the U.S. at 1-800-SEC-0330. In
addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website,www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.

A copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the
charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee of
the Board of Directors are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website,www.iff.com.



