ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

International
Flavors & Fragrances Inc., incorporated in New York in 1909, and its subsidiaries (the “Registrant”, “IFF”, “we”, “us”, and “our”), is a leading creator and manufacturer of flavor and
fragrance products used by other manufacturers to impart or improve flavor or fragrance in a wide variety of consumer products. Fragrance products are sold principally to manufacturers of perfumes, cosmetics, personal care products, hair care
products, deodorants, soaps, detergents, fabric care and air care products; our flavor products are sold principally to manufacturers of prepared foods, beverages, pharmaceuticals, dairy and confectionery products as well as the food service
industry.

We currently have 31 manufacturing facilities with the major manufacturing facilities located in the United States,
Great Britain, Ireland, the Netherlands, Spain, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Australia, China, India, Indonesia, Japan and Singapore. The remaining manufacturing facilities are located in 8 other countries. We maintain our own sales and distribution
facilities in 32 countries and are represented by sales agents and distributors in other countries. Our principal executive offices are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019 (212-765-5500).

MARKETS

Our flavor
products are sold principally to the food and beverage industries for use in consumer products such as soft drinks, non-carbonated drinks, candies, baked goods, desserts, prepared foods, dietary foods, dairy products, drink powders, pharmaceuticals,
snack foods and alcoholic beverages. Two of our largest customers for flavor products are major producers of prepared foods and beverages in the United States. In the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, sales of flavor products
accounted for 46%, 46% and 44%, respectively, of our total sales.

Our fragrance products are used by customers in the
manufacture of various consumer goods in the home and personal care markets. The home market consists of laundry detergents, fabric care, candles, air fresheners and all-purpose cleaners. The personal care market consists of perfumes, colognes,
after-shave lotions, skin care, lipsticks, deodorants and hair preparations. Most of the major global and regional manufacturers in each of these categories are our customers. Five of the largest global companies are among our principal customers.
In the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, sales of fragrance products accounted for 54%, 54% and 56%, respectively, of our total sales.

See Note 12, Segment Information, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information concerning the two business segments, Flavors and Fragrances, and our geographic regions.

PRODUCTS

Our principal fragrance and flavor products consist of compounds of large numbers of ingredients blended in proprietary formulas created by our perfumers and flavorists. Most of these compounds contribute the total fragrance or flavor to
the consumer products in which they are used. This fragrance or flavor characteristic is often a major factor in the consumer selection and acceptance of the consumer end product. A smaller number of compounds are sold to manufacturers who further
blend them to achieve the finished fragrance or flavor in their products. We produce thousands of compounds, and new compounds are constantly being created in order to meet the many and changing characteristics of our customers’ end products.
Most of the fragrance and flavor compounds are created and produced for the exclusive use of particular customers. Our products are sold in powder and liquid forms and in amounts ranging from a few pounds to many tons, depending upon the nature of
the product.

The ingredients that we use in our compounds are both synthetic and natural. We manufacture a substantial
portion of the synthetic ingredients. While a majority of our synthetic ingredients production is used in our







compounds, a substantial portion is also sold to others. Natural ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products as well as from animal products. They contain varying
numbers of organic chemicals, which are responsible for the fragrance or flavor of the natural product. The natural products are purchased in processed or semi-processed form. Some are used in compounds in the state in which they are purchased and
others after further processing. Natural products, together with various chemicals, are also used as raw materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes. Our flavor products also include extracts and seasonings derived
from various fruits, vegetables, nuts, herbs and spices as well as microbiologically-derived ingredients.

MARKET DEVELOPMENTS

The demand for consumer products utilizing flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social
habits resulting from various factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, urbanization, health and wellness concerns, including increased demand for nature based products and by the
continued growth of emerging markets. In the fragrance field, these developments expanded the market for hair care, candles and air care products and deodorant and personal wash products with finer fragrance quality, as well as the market for
colognes, toilet waters, men’s toiletries and other products beyond traditional luxury items such as perfumes. In the flavor field, similar market characteristics stimulated the demand for products such as convenience foods, soft drinks and
low-fat and organic food products that must conform to expected tastes. New and improved methods of packaging, applying and dispensing have been developed for many consumer products that utilize some of our flavor or fragrance products. These
developments called for the creation of new compounds and ingredients compatible with the newly introduced materials and methods of application.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH

The development of new flavors and fragrances is a complex technical and
artistic process calling upon the combined knowledge and skill of our creative perfumers and flavorists, and our scientists. With extensive experience, the perfumers and flavorists continuously advance their skills for creating fragrances or flavors
best suited to the market requirements of the customers’ products.

Scientists from various disciplines work in project
teams with the perfumers and flavorists to develop flavor and fragrance products with consumer preferred performance characteristics. Scientific expertise includes: natural products research, plant science, organic chemistry, analytical chemistry,
biochemistry, microbiology, process engineering, food science, material science and sensory science. Analytical and sensory science is applied to understand the complex interactions of the many ingredients in a consumer product in order to optimize
the flavor or fragrance performance at all points of use. Material science technology is applied to create controlled release and delivery systems to enhance flavor and fragrance performance in consumer products. An important contribution to the
creation of new flavor and fragrances is the discovery and development of new ingredients having improved fragrance or flavor value. The ingredients research program discovers molecules found in natural substances and creates new molecules that are
subsequently tested for their fragrance or flavor value. The new molecules that meet rigorous requirements for commercial development are subsequently transferred to manufacturing operations for production.

Creative and technical product development is conducted in 33 fragrance and flavor laboratories in 26 countries. We maintain a research and
development center at Union Beach, New Jersey. We spent $194 million in 2009, $209 million in 2008 and $197 million in 2007 on our research and development activities or about 8% to 9% of our revenues each year. We expect these expenditures to
remain at this percentage level for 2010. Of the amount expended in 2009 on such activities, 62% was for fragrances and the balance was for flavors. We employed 1,091 persons in 2009 and 1,146 persons in 2008 in such activities.

Our business is not materially dependent upon any patents, trademarks or licenses.







DISTRIBUTION

Distribution for both the flavors and fragrances business units is similar in that most of our sales are through our own sales force. The flavors business operates from two sales offices in the United
States and 38 sales offices in 30 foreign countries, while the fragrances business operates from two sales offices in the United States and 36 sales offices in 29 foreign countries. Sales in additional countries are made through agents and
distributors. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 35% of our sales were to customers in Europe, Africa and Middle East (“EAME”), 26% in North America, 24% in Greater Asia and 15% in Latin America.

During 2009, our 30 largest customers accounted for 57% of our sales. Sales to one customer accounted for 11% of our sales in 2009, 2008 and
2007. These sales were largely in the fragrance business unit.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, the Department
of Agriculture, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration and state authorities. Foreign subsidiaries are subject to
similar regulation in a number of countries. In particular, the European Union will require extensive chemical registration and testing over the next 8 years. Compliance with existing governmental requirements regulating the discharge of materials
into the environment has not materially affected our operations, earnings or competitive position. In 2010, we expect to spend approximately $6 to $8 million on capital projects and approximately $18 million in operating expenses and governmental
charges for the purpose of complying with such requirements.

RAW MATERIAL PURCHASES

We purchase roughly 10,000 different raw materials from many sources all over the world. The principal natural raw materials consist of
essential oils, extracts and concentrates which are derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products and raw fruits. The principal synthetic raw material purchases consist of organic chemicals. We believe that
alternate materials or alternate sources of materials are available to enable us to maintain our competitive position in the event of any interruption in the supply of raw materials from present sources.

COMPETITION

We have more
than 50 competitors in the world markets. IFF is one of the top four companies, which together represent approximately 70% of the flavors and fragrances industry. While no single factor is responsible, our competitive position is based principally
on the creative skills of our perfumers and flavorists, the technological advances resulting from our research and development activities, the quality of our customer service, the support provided by our marketing and application groups, and our
understanding of consumers. We believe that we are one of the largest companies producing and marketing, on an international basis, a wide range of fragrance and flavor products for sale to manufacturers of consumer products. In particular countries
and localities, we face competition from numerous companies specializing in certain product lines, among which are some companies larger than us and some more important in a particular product line or lines. Most of our customers do not buy all of
their fragrance or flavor products from the same supplier, and some customers make their own fragrance or flavor compounds with ingredients supplied by us or others.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately
5,400 persons, of whom approximately 1,400 were employed in the United States. We have not experienced a work stoppage or strike and consider our employee relations to be satisfactory.







EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

Effective October 1, 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors appointed Douglas D. Tough, a director of the Company since October
2008, as the Company’s Chairman of the Board. Mr. Tough, age 60, will also assume the role of Chief Executive Officer of the Company on March 1, 2010. Mr. Tough served as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Ansell
Limited, a global leader in healthcare barrier protective products, from July 2004 until February 2010.

The current executive
officers of the Company, as of February 25, 2010, are listed below.





NameOffice and Other Business Experience(1)AgeYearFirstBecameOfficer

Kevin C. BerrymanMember, Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer since October 2009 (2); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2009; Chief Financial Officer,
Nestle Professional, Americas, a global foodservice manufacturer, from October 2008 to May 2009; Senior Vice President Group Controller, Nestle S.A., an international food and beverage company, from June 2006 to September 2008; Chief Financial
Officer, Nestle Purina Petcare, a manufacturer of pet products, from December 2001 to May 2006.512009



Beth E. FordExecutive Vice President, Head of Supply Chain since October 2008; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Hachette Book Group, a leading US trade publisher, from
September 2007 to September 2008; Senior Vice President, Global Operations and Information Technology, Scholastic, Inc., a global publishing, education and media company, prior thereto.452008



Nicolas MirzayantzMember, Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer since October 2009 (2); Group President, Fragrances since January 2007; Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty
Care and Regional Manager, North America Region from April 2005 to December 2006; Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care from October 2004 to March 2005; Vice President, Global Business Development, Fine Fragrance and Toiletries,
prior thereto.472002



Hernan VaismanMember, Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer since October 2009 (2); Group President, Flavors since January 2007; Vice President, Latin America Region from October
2004 to December 2006; Regional Finance Director, Latin America Region, prior thereto.512004



Angelica T. CantlonSenior Vice President, Human Resources since August 2009; Senior Vice President-International Chief Administrative Officer, MetLife, Inc., an insurance and financial services
company, from June 2005 to August 2009 and Senior Vice President-Human Resources Business Leader, prior thereto.582009



Dennis M. MeanySenior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since January 2004.622004







NameOffice and Other Business Experience(1)AgeYearFirstBecameOfficerRichard A. O’LearyVice President and Controller since June 2009; Interim Chief Financial Officer from July 2008 to May 2009; Vice President, Corporate Development from July 2007 to May 2009;
Finance Director, International Paper’s, a paper and packaging company, Brazilian affiliate from August 2004 to June 2007; Finance Director, International Paper’s Shorewood Packaging Unit, prior thereto.492007



(1)Employed by the Company or an affiliated company for the last five years, except as otherwise indicated.

(2)The temporary Office of the Chief Executive Office (CEO) will be in place until Mr. Tough assumes the CEO position.

We make available free of charge on or through the Investor Relations link on our website,www.iff.com, all materials that we file
electronically with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. During the period covered by this Form 10-K, we made all such materials available through our website as soon as
reasonably practicable after filing such materials with the SEC.

You may also read and copy any materials filed by us with
the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, and you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC in the U.S. at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC
maintains an Internet website,www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.

A copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of
Directors are posted on the Investor Relations section of our website,www.iff.com.



