ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

Each of the Registrants operates in a market and regulatory environment that poses
significant risks, many of which are beyond that Registrant’s control. Management of each Registrant regularly meets with the Chief Enterprise Risk Officer and the RMC, which comprises officers of the Registrants, to identify and evaluate the
most significant risks of the Registrants’ businesses and the appropriate steps to manage and mitigate those risks. The Chief Enterprise Risk Officer and senior executives of the Registrants discuss those risks with the Finance and Risk
Committee and Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors and the ComEd, PECO, BGE, and PHI boards of directors. In addition, the generation oversight committee of the Exelon board of directors evaluates risks related to the generation
business. The risk factors discussed below could adversely affect one or more of the Registrants’ results of operations or cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the known
material risks that affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed by a Registrant to be material that could adversely affect its performance or
financial condition in the future.







Exelon’s financial condition and results of operations are affected to a significant degree by:
(1) Generation’s position as a predominantly nuclear generator selling power into competitive energy markets with a concentration in select regions, and (2) the role of the Utility Registrants as operators of electric transmission and
distribution systems in six of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States. Factors that affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Registrants fall primarily under the following categories, all of which are discussed in
further detail below:



•Market and Financial Factors.Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations are affected by price fluctuations in the energy markets. Power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in
turn are driven by factors such as (1) the price of fuels, in particular the price of natural gas, which affects the prices that Generation can obtain for the output of its power plants, (2) the presence of other generation resources in
the markets in which Generation’s output is sold, (3) the demand for electricity in the markets where the Registrants conduct their business, and (4) the impacts ofon-goingcompetition in the
retail channel.



•Regulatory and Legislative Factors.The regulatory and legislative factors that affect the Registrants include changes to the laws and regulations that govern competitive markets and utility cost recovery
and environmental policy. In particular, Exelon’s and Generation’s financial performance could be affected by changes in the design of competitive wholesale power markets or Generation’s ability to sell power in those markets. In
addition, potential regulation and legislation, including regulation or legislation regarding climate change and renewable portfolio standards, could have significant effects on the Registrants. Also, returns for the Utility Registrants are
influenced significantly by state regulation and regulatory proceedings.



•Operational Factors.The Registrants’ operational performance is subject to those factors inherent in running the nation’s largest fleet of nuclear power reactors and large electric and gas
distribution systems. The safe and effective operation of the nuclear facilities and the ability to effectively manage the associated decommissioning obligations as well as the ability to maintain the availability, reliability and safety of its
energy delivery systems are fundamental to Exelon’s ability to protect and grow shareholder value. Additionally, the operating costs of the Utility Registrants and the opinions of their customers and regulators, are affected by those
companies’ ability to maintain the reliability and safety of their energy delivery systems.



•Risks Related to the PHI Merger.Exelon is subject to additional risks related to the merger with PHI that closed on March 23, 2016.

A discussion of each of these risk categories and other risk factors is included below.

Market and Financial Factors

Generation is exposed to depressed
prices in the wholesale and retail power markets, which could negatively affect its results of operations or cash flows. (Exelon and Generation)

Generation is exposed to commodity price risk for the unhedged portion of its electricity generation supply portfolio. Generation’s earnings
and cash flows are therefore subject to variability of spot and forward market prices in the markets in which it operates rise and fall.

Price
of Fuels: The spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the marginal cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Thus, the market price of power is affected by the market
price of the marginal fuel used to generate the electricity unit. Often, the next unit of electricity will be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels. Consequently, changes in the market price of fossil fuels often result
in comparable changes to the market price of power. For example, the use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits has increased natural gas supply and reserves, placing downward pressure on natural gas







prices and, therefore, on power prices. The continued addition of supply from new alternative generation resources, such as wind and solar, whether mandated through RPS or otherwise
subsidized or encouraged through climate legislation or regulation, could displace a higher marginal cost plant, further reducing power prices. In addition, further delay or elimination of EPA air quality regulations could prolong the duration for
which the cost of pollution from fossil fuel generation is not factored into market prices.

Demand and Supply:The market price for
electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity and the available supply of electricity. Unfavorable economic conditions, milder than normal weather, and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs could
each depress demand. The result is that higher-cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on electricity market prices. The tepid economic environment in recent years and growing energy efficiency and
demand response initiatives have limited the demand for electricity in Generation’s markets. In addition, in some markets, the supply of electricity through wind or solar generation, when combined with other base-load generation such as
nuclear, could often exceed demand during some hours of the day, resulting in loss of revenue for base-load generating plants. Increased supply in excess of demand is furthered by the continuation of RPS mandates and subsidies for renewable energy.

Retail Competition:Generation’s retail operations compete for customers in a competitive environment, which affects the margins that
Generation can earn and the volumes that it is able to serve. In periods of sustained low natural gas and power prices and low market volatility, retail competitors can aggressively pursue market share because the barriers to entry can be low
and wholesale generators (including Generation) use their retail operations to hedge generation output. Increased or more aggressive competition could adversely affect overall gross margins and profitability in Generation’s retail
operations.

Mid-Atlantic. These

in-flight

In addition to price fluctuations, Generation is exposed to other risks in the power markets that are beyond its control and could negatively affect its results of
operations. (Exelon and Generation)

Credit Risk.In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties
that owe Generation money, or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from Generation, will not perform under their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these







arrangements fail to perform, Generation could be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of
amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to risk as a result of default sharing mechanisms that exist within certain markets, primarily RTOs and ISOs, the purpose of which is to spread such risk
across all market participants. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, Generation’s retail sales subject it to credit
risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities to serve commercial and industrial companies, governmental entities and residential customers. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations.
This risk represents the loss that could be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customer’s account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer.

Market Designs.The wholesale markets vary from region to region with distinct rules, practices and procedures. Changes in these market
rules, problems with rule implementation, or failure of any of these markets could adversely affect Generation’s business. In addition, a significant decrease in market participation could affect market liquidity and have a detrimental effect
on market stability.

The Registrants are potentially affected by emerging technologies that could over time affect or transform the energy industry, including
technologies related to energy generation, distribution and consumption. (All Registrants)

Some of these technologies include, but are not
limited, to further shale gas development or sources, cost-effective renewable energy technologies, broad consumer adoption of electric vehicles, distributed generation and energy storage devices. Such developments could affect the price of
energy, could affect energy deliveries as customer-owned generation becomes more cost-effective, could require further improvements to our distribution systems to address changing load demands and could make portions of our electric system power
supply and transmission and/or distribution facilities obsolete prior to the end of their useful lives. Such technologies could also result in further declines in commodity prices or demand for delivered energy. Each of these factors could
materially affect the Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or financial position through, among other things, reduced operating revenues, increased operating and maintenance expenses, and increased capital expenditures, as well as
potential asset impairment charges or accelerated depreciation and decommissioning expenses over shortened remaining asset useful lives.

Market performance and
other factors could decrease the value of NDT funds and employee benefit plan assets and could increase the related employee benefit plan obligations, which then could require significant additional funding. (All Registrants)

Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy could adversely affect the
value of the investments held within Generation’s NDTs and Exelon’s employee benefit plan trusts. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold substantial assets in these trusts to meet those
obligations. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which could fall below the Registrants’ projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments could increase
Generation’s funding requirements to decommission its nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and OPEB plan assets will increase the funding requirements associated with Exelon’s pension and OPEB plan obligations.
Additionally, Exelon’s pension and OPEB plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics,
including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions or changes to Social Security or Medicare eligibility requirements could also increase the costs and funding requirements of







the obligations related to the pension and OPEB plans. If future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets or other factors cannot be recovered, or
cannot be recovered in a timely manner, from the Utility Registrants’ customers, the results of operations and financial position of the Utility Registrants could be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to manage the
investments within the NDT funds and benefit plan assets, and are unable to manage the related benefit plan liabilities, their results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be negatively impacted.

Unstable capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets could adversely affect the Registrants’ businesses in several ways, including
the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, the Registrants’ ability to meet long-term commitments, Generation’s ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of
energy markets; each could negatively impact the Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or financial position. (All Registrants)

The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their
financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants’ respective operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the United States or abroad could adversely affect the
Registrants’ ability to access the capital markets or draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants’ access to funds under their credit facilities depends on the ability of the banks that are parties to the
facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from
the Registrants and other borrowers within a short period of time. The inability to access capital markets or credit facilities, and longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased
regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, changes to Generation’s hedging strategy in order to reduce collateral-posting requirements,
or a reduction in dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash.

In addition, the Registrants have exposure to worldwide financial markets,
including Europe. Disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants’ ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2016, approximately 23%, or
$2.2 billion of the Registrants’ available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $9.5 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $7.9 billion was available as of December 31, 2016. As
of December 31, 2016, there was $75 million of borrowings under Generation’s bilateral credit facilities. See Note 14—Debt and Credit Agreements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information on the credit facilities.

The strength and depth of competition in energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple
trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that could affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of
significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength
of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts, which could have a material
adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations or cash flows.







If any of the Registrants were to experience a downgrade in its credit ratings to below investment grade or otherwise
fail to satisfy the credit standards in its agreements with its counterparties, it would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties and could experience higher borrowing costs. (All Registrants)

The Utility Registrants’ operating agreements with PJM and PECO’s,
BGE’s and DPL’s natural gas procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by their credit rating and market prices. If certain wholesale market conditions were to exist and the Utility Registrants were to lose their
investment grade credit ratings (based on their senior unsecured debt ratings), they would be required to provide collateral in the forms of letters of credit or cash, which could have a material adverse effect upon their liquidity. Collateral
posting requirements will generally increase as market prices rise and decrease as market prices fall. Collateral posting requirements for PECO, BGE and DPL, with respect to their natural gas supply contracts, will generally increase as forward
market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if the Utility Registrants were downgraded, they could experience higher
borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade.

A Utility Registrant could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies
concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry in general, or a Utility Registrant in particular, has deteriorated. A Utility Registrant could experience a downgrade if its current
regulatory environment becomes less predictable by materially lowering returns for the Utility Registrant or adopting other measures to limit utility rates. Additionally, the ratings for a Utility Registrant could be downgraded if its financial
results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to a failure to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings
of the Utility Registrants.

The Utility Registrants conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements
and procedures intended to assure that the Utility Registrants are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate the Utility Registrants from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries
in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as “ring-







fencing”) could help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of the Utility Registrants in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ring-fencing
measures, the credit ratings of the Utility Registrants could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of some or all of
the Utility Registrants. A reduction in the credit rating of a Utility Registrant could have a material adverse effect on the Utility Registrant.

See Liquidity and Capital Resources—Recent Market Conditions and Security Ratings for further information regarding the potential impacts of credit
downgrades on the Registrants’ cash flows.

Generation’s financial performance could be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other
risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. (Exelon and Generation)

Generation depends on nuclear fuel and fossil
fuels to operate most of its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long-term uranium supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services, or a combination thereof, and contracted fuel
fabrication services. Natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short-term and spot-market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions
and counterparty default that could negatively affect the results of operations or cash flows for Generation.

Generation’s risk management policies cannot
fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. (Exelon and Generation)

Generation’s asset-based power position
as well as its power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk
management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on
projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations could be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other
energy-related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk
management decisions could have on its business, operating results, cash flows or financial position.

Generation buys and sells energy and other
products and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generation’s power generation portfolio. Generation is exposed to volatility in financial results for unhedged positions.

Financial performance and load requirements could be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. (Exelon and Generation)

A significant portion of Generation’s power portfolio is used to provide power under procurement contracts with the Utility Registrants and
other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generation’s output is sold in the wholesale power markets. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its
customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generation’s financial results could be negatively affected if it is unable to cost-effectively meet the load requirements of its customers,
manage its power portfolio and effectively address the changes in the wholesale power markets.







Challenges to tax positions taken by the Registrants as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in
quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could negatively impact the Registrants’ results of operations or cash flows. (All Registrants)

Potential Corporate Tax Reform.The results of the November 2016 U.S. elections have introduced greater uncertainty with respect to federal
tax policies. President Trump has stated that one of his top priorities is comprehensive tax reform and House Republicans plan to advance their tax reform “blueprint”. Tax reform proposals call for a reduction in the corporate
federal income tax rate from the current 35% to as low as 15%. Other proposals provide, among other items, for the immediate deduction of capital investment expenditures and full or partial elimination of debt interest expense
deductions. It is uncertain whether, to what extent or when these or any other changes in federal tax policies will be enacted or the transition time frame for such changes. Further, for the Utility Registrants, regulators may impose rate
reductions to provide the benefit of any income tax expense reductions to customers and refund “excess” deferred income taxes previously collected through rates. The amounts and timing of any such rate changes would be subject to the
discretion of the rate regulator in each specific jurisdiction. For these reasons, the Registrants cannot predict the impact any potential changes may have on their future results of operations, cash flows or financial position, and such
changes could be material.

Tax reserves.The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to
taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves established for potential adverse outcomes
regarding tax positions that have been taken that could be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. See Notes 1—Significant Accounting Policies and Note 15—Income Taxes of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.

Increases in customer rates and the impact of economic downturns could lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances.
Additionally, increased rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors could decrease Generation’s and the Utility Registrants’ results from operations or cash flows. (All Registrants)

Further,
the impacts of economic downturns on the Utility Registrants’ customers, such as unemployment for residential customers and less demand for products and services provided by







commercial and industrial customers, and the related regulatory limitations on residential service terminations, could result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer
balances’, which would negatively impact the Utility Registrants’ results of operations or cash flows. Generation’s customer-facing energy delivery activities face similar economic downturn risks, such as lower volumes sold and
increased expense for uncollectible customer balances which could negatively affect Generation’s results of operations or cash flows. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for further discussion of the
Registrants’ credit risk.

The effects of weather could impact the Registrants’ results of operations or cash flows. (All Registrants)

Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Temperatures above normal
levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect
the usage of energy and resulting revenues at ComEd, PECO, DPL and ACE. Due to revenue decoupling, BGE, Pepco and DPL recognize revenues at MDPSC and DCPSC-approved levels per customer, regardless of what actual distribution volumes are for a
billing period, and are not affected by actual weather with the exception of major storms. Pursuant to the Illinois FEJA signed into law on December 2016 and effective in 2017, ComEd can eliminate the favorable or unfavorable impacts of weather or
load on its electric distribution revenues by either (1) revising its electric distribution formula rate to eliminate the ROE collar beginning with the reconciliation performed for the 2017 calendar year or (2) implementing a decoupling
tariff if the electric distribution formula rate were to be terminated at anytime.

Extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms could
stress the Utility Registrants’ transmission and distribution systems, communication systems and technology, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each company’s ability to meet peak customer demand. These
extreme conditions could have detrimental effects on the Utility Registrants’ results of operations or cash flows. First and third quarter financial results, in particular, are substantially dependent on weather conditions, and could make
period comparisons less relevant.

Generation’s operations are also affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as
operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation could require greater resources to meet its contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms could affect the
availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generation’s ability to source or send power to where it is sold. In addition, drought-like conditions limiting water usage could impact Generation’s ability to run certain
generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, could have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity
at a time when markets are weak.

Certain long-lived assets and other assets recorded on the Registrants’ statements of financial position could become
impaired, which would result in write-offs of the impaired amounts. (All Registrants)

Long-lived assets represent the single largest asset class
on the Registrants’ statements of financial position. Specifically, long-lived assets account for 62%, 54%, 68%, 70%, 81%, 76%, 79% and 73% of total assets for Exelon, Generation, ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL and ACE, respectively, as of
December 31, 2016. In addition, Exelon and Generation have significant balances related to unamortized energy contracts, as further disclosed in Note 11—Intangible Assets of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The
Registrants evaluate the recoverability of







the carrying value of long-lived assets to be held and used whenever events or circumstances indicating a potential impairment exist. Factors such as the business climate, including current and
future energy and market conditions, environmental regulation, and the condition of assets are considered when evaluating long-lived assets for potential impairment. An impairment would require the Registrants to reduce the carrying value of the
long-lived asset to fair value through anon-cashcharge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants’ results of operations.

As of December 31, 2016, Exelon’s $6.7 billion carrying amount of goodwill primarily consists of $2.6 billion at ComEd relating
to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 upon the formation of Exelon and $4.0 billion at PHI primarily resulting from Exelon’s acquisition of PHI in the first quarter of 2016. Under GAAP, goodwill remains at its recorded amount unless it is
determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will bewritten-offto expense, which will also reduce equity. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables. Such an impairment would result
in anon-cashcharge to expense, which could have a material adverse impact on Exelon’s, ComEd’s, and PHI’s results of operations.

Regulatory actions or changes in significant assumptions, including discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions,
projected operating and capital cash flows for ComEd’s, Pepco’s, DPL’s, and ACE’s business, and the fair value of debt, could potentially result in future impairments of Exelon’s, PHI’s, and ComEd’s goodwill, which
could be material.

See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Critical Accounting
Policies and Estimates and Note 7—Property, Plant and Equipment, Note 8—Impairment of Long Lived Assets and Note 11—Intangible Assets of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on
long-lived asset and goodwill impairments.

Exelon and its subsidiaries at times guarantee the performance of third parties, which could result in substantial
costs in the event ofnon-performanceby such third parties. In addition, the Registrants could have rights under agreements which obligate third parties to indemnify the Registrants for various obligations,
and the Registrants could incur substantial costs in the event that the applicable Registrant is unable to enforce those agreements or the applicable third-party is otherwise unable to perform. The Registrants could also incur substantial costs in
the event that third parties are entitled to indemnification related to environmental or other risks in connection with the acquisition and divestiture of assets. (All Registrants)

Some of the Registrants have issued guarantees of the performance of third parties, which obligate the Registrant or its subsidiaries to perform in the
event that the third parties do not perform. In the event ofnon-performanceby those third parties, a Registrant could incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations under these guarantees. Such
performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of the Registrant. Some of the Registrants have issued indemnities to third parties regarding environmental or other matters in
connection with purchases and sales of asset and a Registrant could incur substantial costs to fulfill its obligations under these indemnities.

Some of the Registrants have entered into various agreements with counterparties that require those counterparties to reimburse a Registrant and hold it
harmless against specified obligations and claims. To the extent that any of these counterparties are affected by deterioration in their creditworthiness or the agreements are otherwise determined to be unenforceable, the affected







Registrant could be held responsible for the obligations, which could impact that Registrant’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In connection with Exelon’s 2001
corporate restructuring, Generation assumed certain of ComEd’s and PECO’s rights and obligations with respect to their former generation businesses. Further, ComEd and PECO may have entered into agreements with third parties under which
the third-party agreed to indemnify ComEd or PECO for certain obligations related to their respective former generation businesses that have been assumed by Generation as part of the restructuring. If the third-party or Generation experienced events
that reduced its creditworthiness or the indemnity arrangement became unenforceable, ComEd or PECO could be liable for any existing or future claims, which could impact ComEd’s or PECO’s results of operations, cash flows or financial
position.

Regulatory and Legislative Factors

The
Registrants’ generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated and could be subject to regulatory and legislative actions that adversely affect their operations or financial results. Fundamental changes in regulation or legislation
or violation of tariffs or market rules and anti-manipulation laws, could disrupt the Registrants’ business plans and adversely affect their operations or financial results. (All Registrants)

low-carbon







Generation could be negatively affected by possible Federal or state legislative or regulatory actions that could affect
the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets. (Exelon and Generation)

Federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are facing
pressures to address consumer concerns, or are themselves raising concerns, that energy prices in wholesale markets are too high or insufficient generation is being built because the competitive model is not working and, therefore, are considering
some form ofre-regulationor some other means of reducing wholesale market prices or subsidizing new generation. Generation is dependent on robust and competitive wholesale energy markets to achieve its
business objectives.

Approximately 65% of Generation’s generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through
long-term contracts, are located in the area encompassed by PJM. Generation’s future results of operations will depend on (1) FERC’s continued adherence to and support for, policies that favor the preservation of competitive wholesale
power markets, such as PJM’s, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect market competitiveness. Generation could also be adversely affected by state laws, regulations or
initiatives designed to reduce wholesale prices artificially below competitive levels or to subsidize new generation, such as the subsequently dismissed New Jersey Capacity Legislation and the MDPSC’s RFP for newgas-firedgeneration in Maryland. See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the New Jersey Capacity Legislation and the
Maryland new electric generation requirements.

In addition, FERC’s application of its Order 697 and its subsequent revisions could pose a risk
that Generation will have difficulty satisfying FERC’s tests for market-based rates. Since Order 697 became final in June 2007, Generation has obtained orders affirming Generation’s authority to sell at market-based rates and none denying
that authority.

over-the-counter

end-users

end-users

end-users

end-user,

There are, however, some rulemaking proceedings that have not yet been finalized, including the capital and margin rules for(non-cleared)swaps. Generation does not expect these rules to directly impact its collateral requirements. However, depending on the substance of these final rules in addition to certain international regulatory
requirements still under development and that are similar to Dodd-Frank, Generation’s swap counterparties could be subject to additional and potentially significant







capitalization requirements. These regulations could motivate the SDs and MSPs to increase collateral requirements or cash postings from their counterparties, including Generation.

Generation continues to monitor the rulemaking proceedings with respect to the capital and margin rules, but cannot predict to what extent, if any,
further refinements to Dodd-Frank requirements could impact its cash flows or financial position, but such impacts could be material.

The Utility
Registrants could also be subject to some Dodd-Frank requirements to the extent they were to enter into swaps. However, at this time, management of the Utility Registrants continue to expect that their companies will not be materially affected by
Dodd-Frank.

Generation’s affiliation with the Utility Registrants, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generation’s physical
asset base within the Utility Registrants’ service territories, could increase Generation’s cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding the Utility Registrants’ retail rates result in settlements or
legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. (Exelon and Generation)

Generation has significant generating resources
within the service areas of the Utility Registrants and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are
aware of Generation’s affiliation with the Utility Registrants and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups
could question or challenge costs and transactions incurred by the Utility Registrants with Generation, irrespective of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges could increase the
time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges could subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials
and legislators could seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation-based taxes and contributions to rate-relief packages.

The Registrants could incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. (All Registrants)

The businesses which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation and legislation by local, state and Federal authorities.
These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures including how they handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal. Violations of these emission and disposal
requirements could subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs for remediation andclean-upcosts, civil
penalties and exposure to third parties’ claims for alleged health or property damages or operating restrictions to achieve compliance. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the remediation costs for
environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental
compliance, site remediation andclean-up.Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies are one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved
in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and could be subject to additional proceedings in the future.

If application of Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, which establishes a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic
organisms at existing generating stations, requires the







retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Salem or other Exelon power plants, this development could result in material costs of compliance. Pursuant to discussions with the NJDEP
regarding the application of Section 316(b) to Oyster Creek, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019, ten years before the expiration of its operating license in 2029. On
July 28, 2016, the NJDEP issued a final permit for Salem that did not require the installation of cooling towers. However, the permit is being challenged by an environmental organization, and if successful, could result in additional costs for
Clean Water Act compliance.

Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos-related personal injury liability alleged at certain
current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos-related disease and exposure.

In some cases, a third-party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant could otherwise have for environmental
matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee is unable, or fails, to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrant’s remedies
against the transferee could be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 24—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Changes in the Utility Registrants’ respective terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings
and/or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which could introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. (Exelon and the Utility Registrants)

The Utility Registrants are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates
for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective
of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings.
The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for a Utility Registrant to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates
are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates could be adjusted, including recovery mechanisms for costs associated with the procurement of electricity or gas, bad debt, MGP remediation, smart
grid infrastructure, and energy efficiency and demand response programs.

In certain instances, the Utility Registrants could agree to negotiated
settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are subject to regulatory approval.

The Utility Registrants cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania, Maryland, the District of
Columbia, Delaware, New Jersey or Federal regulators in establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs such as significant capital projects will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the
expectation is that the Utility Registrants will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant default service obligations, referred to as POLR, DSP, SOS, and
BGS, to provide electricity and natural gas to certain groups of customers in their respective service areas who do not choose an alternative supplier. The ultimate outcome and timing of regulatory







rate proceedings have a significant effect on the ability of the Utility Registrants, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on the Utility
Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding rate proceedings.

Federal or additional state RPS and/or energy conservation legislation, along with energy conservation by customers, could negatively affect the results of
operations or cash flows of Generation and the Utility Registrants. (All Registrants)

Changes to current state legislation or the development of
Federal legislation that requires the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact Generation and the Utility Registrants, especially if timely cost recovery is not allowed for
Utility Registrants. The impact could include increased costs for RECs and purchased power and increased rates for customers.

Federal and state
legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs that require the implementation of new technologies, such as smart meters and smart grid, have increased capital expenditures and could significantly impact the Utility
Registrants if timely cost recovery is not allowed. Furthermore, regulated energy consumption reduction targets and declines in customer energy consumption resulting from the implementation of new energy conservation technologies could lead to a
decline in the revenues of Exelon, Generation and the Utility Registrants. For additional information, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS “Environmental Regulation-Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards.”

The impact of not meeting the criteria of the FASB guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation could be material to Exelon and the Utility
Registrants. (Exelon and the Utility Registrants)

one-time







Exelon and Generation could incur material costs of compliance if Federal and/or state regulation or legislation is
adopted to address climate change. (Exelon and Generation)

Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders andnon-governmentalorganizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. In 2009, select Northeast andMid-Atlanticstates implemented a model rule, developed via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil-fired generation. RGGI states are working on updated programs to further limit emissions, and the EPA has
introduced regulation to address greenhouse gases from new fossil plants that could potentially impact existing plants. If carbon reduction regulation or legislation becomes effective, Exelon and Generation could incur costs either to limit further
the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. For example, more stringent permitting requirements could preclude the construction of lower-carbon nuclear andgas-firedpower
plants. Similarly, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS “Global Climate
Change” and Note 24—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Registrants could be subject to
higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards, including the likely exposure of the Utility Registrants to the results of PJM’s RTEP and NERC compliance requirements. (All Registrants)

As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation and the Utility
Registrants, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. As operators of natural gas distribution systems, PECO, BGE, and DPL are also subject to mandatory reliability standards of the U.S. Department of
Transportation. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability
standards could subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC, PAPUC, MDPSC, DCPSC, DPSC and NJBPU impose certain distribution reliability standards on the Utility Registrants. If the
Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties.

The Utility Registrants as transmission owners are subject to NERC compliance requirements. NERC provides guidance to transmission owners regarding
assessments of transmission lines. The results of these assessments could require the Utility Registrants to incur incremental capital or operating and maintenance expenditures to ensure their transmission lines meet NERC standards.

See Note 3—Regulatory Matters and Note 24—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.

The Registrants could be subject to adverse publicity and reputational risks, which make them vulnerable to negative customer perception
and could lead to increased regulatory oversight or other consequences. (All Registrants)

The Registrants have large consumer customer bases and
as a result could be the subject of public criticism focused on the operability of their assets and infrastructure and quality of their service. Adverse publicity of this nature could render legislatures and other governing bodies, public service
commissions and other regulatory authorities, and government officials less likely to view energy companies such as Exelon and its subsidiaries in a favorable light, and could cause Exelon and its







subsidiaries to be susceptible to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes, as well as increased regulatory oversight and more stringent regulatory requirements. Unfavorable regulatory
outcomes can include the enactment of more stringent laws and regulations governing Exelon’s operations, as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements. The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material negative
impact on the Registrants’ business, results of operations, cash flows and financial positions.

The Registrants cannot predict the outcome of the legal
proceedings relating to their business activities. An adverse determination could negatively impact their results of operations, cash flows or financial position. (All Registrants)

The Registrants are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of their business operations, the most significant of which are
summarized in Note 24—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on the
Registrants’ results of operations.

Generation could be negatively affected by possible Nuclear Regulatory Commission actions that could affect the
operations and profitability of its nuclear generating fleet. (Exelon and Generation)

Regulatory risk.A change in the
Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses could require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or could result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generation’s results of operations
or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, could cause the NRC to initiate such actions.

Spent nuclear fuel storage.The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF, such as the one previously considered at Yucca
Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. The NRC’s temporary storage
rule (also referred to as the “waste confidence decision”) recognizes that licensees can safely store SNF at nuclear power plants for up to 60 years beyond the original and renewed licensed operating life of the plants.

Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF could adversely affect Generation’s ability to decommission
fully its nuclear units. Through May 15, 2014, in accordance with the NWPA and Generation’s contract with the DOE, Generation paid the DOE a fee per kWh of net nuclear generation for the cost of SNF disposal. This fee was discontinued
effective May 16, 2014. Until such time as a new fee structure is in effect, Exelon and Generation will not accrue any further costs related to SNF disposal fees. Generation currently estimates 2030 to be the earliest date when the DOE will
begin accepting SNF, which could be delayed by further regulatory action. See Note 24—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the SNF obligation. Generation
cannot predict what, if any, fee will be established in the future for SNF disposal. However, such a fee could be material to Generation’s results of operations or cash flows.







Operational Factors

The Registrants’ employees, contractors, customers and the general public could be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. (All
Registrants)

Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public could be exposed to,
potentially dangerous environments near their operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at some risk for serious injury, including loss of life. These risks include nuclear accidents, dam
failure, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases.

Natural disasters, war, acts and threats of terrorism, pandemic and other significant events
could negatively impact the Registrants’ results of operations, their ability to raise capital and their future growth. (All Registrants)

Generation’s fleet of power plants and the Utility Registrants’ distribution and transmission infrastructures could be affected by natural
disasters, such as seismic activity, extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena. Severe weather or other natural disasters
could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Registrants’ service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers
due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment.

Natural disasters and other significant events increase the risk to
Generation that the NRC or other regulatory or legislative bodies could change the laws or regulations governing, among other things, operations, maintenance, licensed lives, decommissioning, SNF storage, insurance, emergency planning, security and
environmental and radiological matters. In addition, natural disasters could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Generation’s continued operation, particularly the cooling
of generating units. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general could adversely affect the Registrants’ operations and their ability to raise capital.

The impact that potential terrorist attacks could have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular is uncertain. As owner-operators of
infrastructure facilities, such as nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities and electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, the Registrants face a risk that their operations would be direct targets or indirect
casualties of an act of terror. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign could affect their operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil.
Furthermore, these catastrophic events could compromise the physical or cyber security of Exelon’s facilities, which could adversely affect Exelon’s ability to manage its business effectively. Instability in the financial markets as a
result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could adversely affect the Registrants’ results of operations and its ability to raise
capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs.

The Registrants could be significantly affected by the outbreak of a pandemic. Exelon has plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on
the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate Exelon’s generating and transmission and distribution assets could be affected, resulting in decreased service levels and
increased costs.







In addition, Exelon maintains a level of insurance coverage consistent with industry practices against
property and casualty losses subject to unforeseen occurrences or catastrophic events that could damage or destroy assets or interrupt operations. However, there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance will be adequate to address such
property and casualty losses.

Generation’s financial performance could be negatively affected by matters arising from its ownership and operation of
nuclear facilities. (Exelon and Generation)

Nuclear capacity factors.Capacity factors for generating units, particularly
capacity factors for nuclear generating units, significantly affect Generation’s results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs
typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generation’s operating costs by requiring
Generation to produce additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generation’s obligations to committed third-party sales, including the Utility
Registrants. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to produce energy from its nuclear stations.

Nuclear refueling
outages.In general, refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, could have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. When
refueling outages last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and/or lower energy sales.

Nuclear fuel quality.The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation could affect the efficiency and costs of
Generation’s operations. Certain of Generation’s nuclear units have previously had a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage
costs and/or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities.

Operational risk.Operations at any of
Generation’s nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes could require significant time
and expense. Generation could choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation could lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet
supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation could also incur liability to theco-owners.For plants not operated and not wholly owned by Generation, from which
Generation receives a portion of the plants’ output, Generation’s results of operations are dependent on the operational performance of the operators and could be adversely affected by a significant event at those plants. Additionally,
poor operating performance at nuclear plants not owned by Generation could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear-fueled energy, which could significantly affect Generation’s results of operations or financial
position. In addition, closure of generating plants owned by others, or extended interruptions of generating plants or failure of transmission lines, could affect transmission systems that could adversely affect the sale and delivery of electricity
in markets served by Generation.

Nuclear major incident risk.Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally has been very
good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and abroad. The consequences of a major incident could be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major
incident within the United States, owned or operated by Generation or owned by others, could exceed Generation’s resources, including insurance coverage. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from insurers or the







nuclear industry, could be borne by Generation and could have a material adverse effect on Generation’s results of operations or financial position. Additionally, an accident or other
significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States or abroad, whether owned Generation or others, could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear-fueled energy and significantly affect Generation’s results
of operations or financial position.

Nuclear insurance.As required by the Price-Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum
available amount of nuclear liability insurance. The required amount of nuclear liability insurance is $450 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection
pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue-raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $13.4 billion limit for a single incident.

Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generation’s
nuclear operations. In previous years, NEIL has made distributions to its members but Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will occur at all. See Note 24—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance.

Decommissioning.NRC regulations require that
licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a
biennial report by unit (annually for units that have been retired and units that are within five years of retirement) addressing Generation’s ability to meet theNRC-estimatedfunding levels including
scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit.

Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results could
differ significantly from current estimates. The performance of capital markets also could significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions to certain trust funds of the former PECO units based on
amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation, through PECO, has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to
collect additional amounts from utility customers for any of its other nuclear units if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation would be unable to continue to make contributions to
the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of
the trust funds related to the former PECO units could be negatively affected and Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations or financial position could be significantly affected. See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Ultimately, if the investments held by Generation’s NDTs are not
sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generation’s nuclear units, Generation could be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions
to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that current and future NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generation’s cash flows or financial position could be significantly
adversely affected. Additionally, if the pledged assets are not sufficient to fund the Zion station decommissioning activities under the Asset Sale Agreement (ASA), Generation could have to seek remedies available under the ASA to reduce the risk of
default by ZionSolutions and its parent. See Note 16—Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.







For nuclear units that are subject to regulatory agreements with either the ICC or the PAPUC,
decommissioning-related activities are generally offset within Exelon’s and Generation’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. The offset of decommissioning-related activities within the Consolidated Statement of
Operations and Comprehensive Income results in an equal adjustment to the noncurrent payables to affiliates at Generation and an adjustment to the regulatory liabilities at Exelon. Likewise, ComEd and PECO have recorded an equal noncurrent affiliate
receivable from Generation and a corresponding regulatory liability.

In the case of the nuclear units subject to the regulatory agreements with the
ICC, if the funds held in the NDT funds for any former ComEd unit are expected to not exceed the total decommissioning obligation for that unit, the accounting to offset decommissioning-related activities in the Consolidated Statement of Operations
and Comprehensive Income for that unit would be discontinued, the decommissioning-related activities would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income and the adverse impact to Exelon’s and
Generation’s results of operations and financial position could be material. Additionally, any remaining balances in noncurrent payables to affiliates at Generation and ComEd’s noncurrent affiliate receivable from Generation and
corresponding regulatory liability may need to be reversed and could have a material impact on Generation’s Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income.

In the case of the nuclear units subject to the regulatory agreements with the PAPUC, any changes to the PECO regulatory agreements could impact
Exelon’s and Generation’s ability to offset decommissioning-related activities within the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income, and the impact to Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations and
financial position could be material. Additionally, any remaining balances in noncurrent payables to affiliates at Generation and PECO’s noncurrent affiliate receivable from Generation and corresponding regulatory liability may need to be
reversed and could have a material impact on Generation’s Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income.

Generation’s financial
performance could be negatively affected by risks arising from its ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities. (Exelon and Generation)

non-Federal







The Registrants’ businesses are capital intensive, and their assets could require significant expenditures to
maintain and are subject to operational failure, which could result in potential liability. (All Registrants)

The Registrants’ businesses
are capital intensive and require significant investments by Generation in electric generating facilities and by the Utility Registrants in transmission and distribution infrastructure projects. These operational systems and infrastructure have been
in service for many years. Equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good utility practices, is subject to operational failure, including events that are beyond the Registrants’ control, and could require significant expenditures to
operate efficiently. The Registrants’ respective results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows could be adversely affected if they were unable to effectively manage their capital projects or raise the necessary capital. Furthermore,
operational failure of electric or gas systems or infrastructure could result in potential liability if such failure results in damage to property or injury to individuals. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS for further information regarding the Registrants’
potential future capital expenditures.

The Utility Registrants’ operating costs, and customers’ and regulators’ opinions of the Utility
Registrants are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery and operational systems. (Exelon and the Utility Registrants)

Failures of the equipment or facilities, including information systems, used in the Utility Registrants’ delivery systems could interrupt the
electric transmission and electric and natural gas delivery, which could negatively impact related revenues, and increase maintenance and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including weather or
information systems failure. Specifically, if the implementation of advanced metering infrastructure, smart grid or other technologies in the Utility Registrants’ service territory fail to perform as intended or are not successfully integrated
with billing and other information systems, the Utility Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, if any of the financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail
or have other significant shortcomings, the Utility Registrants’ financial results could be negatively impacted. If an employee causes the operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or
manipulating the operational systems, the Utility Registrants’ financial results could also be negatively impacted. In addition, dependence upon automated systems could further increase the risk that operational system flaws or employee
tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.

The aforementioned failures or those of other
utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, could affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight and the Utility Registrants’ maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide
service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd could be required to pay damages to its
customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers, and those damages could be material to ComEd’s results of operations or cash flows. See Note 24—Commitments and Contingencies of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding proceedings related to storm-related outages in ComEd’s service territory.

The Utility Registrants’ respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures could be negatively impacted by
transmission congestion and failures of neighboring transmission systems. (All Registrants)

Demand for electricity within the Utility
Registrants’ service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent







effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. Also, insufficient availability of electric supply to meet customer demand could jeopardize the Utility Registrants’ ability
to comply with reliability standards and strain customer and regulatory agency relationships. As with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity or generation facility retirements could result in PJM or FERC requiring the Utility
Registrant’s to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures.

The electricity transmission
facilities of the Utility Registrants are interconnected with the transmission facilities of neighboring utilities and are part of the interstate power transmission grid that is operated by PJM RTO. Although PJM’s systems and operations are
designed to ensure the reliable operation of the transmission grid and prevent the operations of one utility from having an adverse impact on the operations of the other utilities, there can be no assurance that service interruptions at other
utilities will not cause interruptions in the Utility Registrants’ service areas. If the Utility Registrants were to suffer such a service interruption, it could have a negative impact on their and Exelon’s results of operations, cash
flows and financial position.

The Registrants are subject to physical security and cybersecurity risks. (All Registrants)

Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact the Registrants’ results of operations. (All Registrants)

Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements,
could lead to operating challenges and







increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs
for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, could arise. The Registrants are particularly affected due to the specialized knowledge required of the technical and support employees for their generation, transmission and
distribution operations. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively impacted.

The Registrants could make investments in new business initiatives, including initiatives mandated by regulators, and markets that may not be successful, and
acquisitions could not achieve the intended financial results. (All Registrants)

Generation could continue to pursue growth in its existing
businesses and markets and further diversification across the competitive energy value chain. This could include investment opportunities in renewables, development of natural gas generation, distributed generation, potential expansion of the
existing wholesale gas businesses and entry into liquefied natural gas. Such initiatives could involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, inadequate return on capital, and unidentified
issues not discovered in the diligence performed prior to launching an initiative or entering a market. As these markets mature, there could be new market entrants or expansion by established competitors that increase competition for customers and
resources. Additionally, it is possible that FERC, state public utility commissions or others could impose certain other restrictions on such transactions. All of these factors could result in higher costs or lower revenues than expected, resulting
in lower than planned returns on investment.

The Utility Registrants face risks associated with their regulatory-mandated Smart Grid initiatives.
These risks include, but are not limited to, cost recovery, regulatory concerns, cybersecurity and obsolescence of technology. Due to these risks, no assurance can be given that such initiatives will be successful and will not have a material
adverse effect on the Utility Registrants’ financial results.

Risks Related to the PHI Merger

The merger may not achieve its anticipated results, and Exelon could be unable to integrate the operations of PHI in the manner expected. (Exelon)

Exelon and PHI entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits, including, among other things,
cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and PHI can be integrated in an efficient, effective and timely manner.

It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption
of Exelon’s businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices and policies, any of which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the
merger as and when expected. Exelon could have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs and could adversely affect
Exelon’s future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.

The merger may not be accretive to earnings and could cause dilution to
Exelon’s earnings per share, which could negatively affect the market price of Exelon’s common stock. (Exelon)

The timing and amount
of accretion expected could be significantly adversely affected by a number of uncertainties, including market conditions, risks related to Exelon’s businesses and whether







the business of PHI is integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Exelon also could encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, could fail to realize all of the benefits
anticipated in the merger or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. Any of these factors could cause a decrease in Exelon’s adjusted earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and
contribute to a decrease in the price of Exelon’s common stock.

Exelon could incur unexpected transaction fees and merger-related costs in connection with
the merger. (Exelon, PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE)

Exelon is incurring costs to combine the operations of Exelon, PHI and its subsidiaries. Exelon
and PHI could incur additional unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses of the two companies. Although Exelon and PHI expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related
to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, the combined company may not achieve this net benefit in the near term, or at all.

Exelon could encounter unexpected difficulties or costs in meeting commitments it made under various orders and agreements associated with regulatory approvals for
the PHI Merger. (Exelon, PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE)

As a result of the process to obtain regulatory approvals required for the PHI Merger, Exelon
is committed to various programs, contributions and investments in several settlement agreements and regulatory approval orders, one of which may remain subject to the “most favored nation” reconciliation process. It is possible that
Exelon could encounter delays, unexpected difficulties, or additional costs in meeting these commitments in compliance with the terms of the relevant agreements and orders. Failure to fulfill the commitments in accordance with their terms could
result in increased costs or result in penalties or fines that could adversely affect Exelon’s, PHI’s, Pepco’s, DPL’s and ACE’s financial position and operating results.



