ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

TE Connectivity Ltd. ("TE Connectivity" or the "Company," which may be referred to as "we," "us," or "our") is a world leader in
connectivity. We design and manufacture products to connect power, data, and signal in a broad array of industries including automotive, energy, industrial, broadband communications, consumer devices,
healthcare, and aerospace and defense. We help our customers solve the need for more energy efficiency, always-on communications, and ever-increasing productivity.

Effective
for the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we reorganized our management and segments to better align the organization around our strategy. We now operate through four reporting
segments: Transportation Solutions, Network Solutions, Industrial Solutions, and Consumer Solutions. Our reporting segments manufacture and distribute our products and solutions to a number of end
markets. The table below provides a summary of our reporting segments, the fiscal 2013 net sales contribution of each segment, and the key products and industry end markets that we serve:

SegmentTransportationSolutionsNetworkSolutionsIndustrialSolutionsConsumerSolutions% of Fiscal 2013 Net Sales41%23%23%13%Key Products•Terminals and connector
systems•Relays•Circuit protection devices•Sensors•Application tooling•Wire and heat shrink tubing•Terminals and connector
systems•Fiber optics•Wire and cable•Racks and panels•Wireless•Undersea telecommunication
systems•Terminals and connector
systems•Heat shrink
tubing•Relays•Wire and cable•Terminals and connector
systems•Circuit protection
devices•Relays•Antennas•Heat shrink tubingKey Markets•Automotive•Telecom networks•Data communications•Enterprise networks•Subsea communications•Industrial•Aerospace, defense, and marine•Energy•Consumer devices•Appliances

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe that we have the following competitive strengths:

•Portfolio of market-leading connectivity businesses.We
are a leader in many of the markets we serve, and the opportunity for growth in those markets is significant. We believe our four segments serve a combined market of approximately $100 billion
that is expected to grow at an estimated annual growth rate of approximately 5% over the next five years.•Global leader in passive components.With net sales of
$13.3 billion in fiscal 2013, we are significantly larger than many of our competitors. In the fragmented connector industry, which we estimated to be approximately $50 billion in fiscal
2013, our net sales were approximately $8.5 billion. We have established a global leadership position in the connector industry with leading market positions in the following markets:
automotive—#1, industrial—#1, telecom/data communications—#2, and consumer electronics—#2.

Our
scale provides us the opportunity to accelerate our sales growth by making larger investments in existing and new technologies and businesses in our core markets, and to expand









our
presence in emerging markets. Our leadership position also provides us the opportunity to lower our purchasing costs by developing lower cost sources of supply and to maintain a flexible
manufacturing footprint worldwide that is close to our customers' locations.

•

Strong customer relationships.As an industry leader, we
have established close working relationships with many of our customers. These relationships allow us to better anticipate and respond to customer needs when designing new products and new technical
solutions. By working with our customers in developing new products and technologies, we believe we are able to identify and act on trends and leverage knowledge about next-generation technology
across our products.

•

Process and product technology leadership.We employ
approximately 6,900 engineers dedicated to product research, development, and engineering. Our investment of $675 million in product and process engineering and development, together with our
capital spending of $615 million in fiscal 2013, enable us to consistently provide innovative, high-quality products with efficient manufacturing methods. In fiscal 2013, we derived
approximately 24% of our net sales from new products, including product extensions, introduced within the previous three fiscal years.

•

Diverse product mix and customer base.We manufacture and
sell a broad portfolio of products to customers in various industries. Our customers include many of the leaders in their respective industries, and our relationships with them typically date back
many years. We believe that this diversified customer base provides us an opportunity to leverage our skills and experience across markets and reduces our exposure to individual end markets, thereby
reducing the variability of our financial performance. Additionally, we believe that the diversity of our customer base reduces the level of cyclicality in our results and distinguishes us from our
competitors.

•

Global presence.We have an established manufacturing
presence in over 20 countries and global sales distribution. Our global coverage positions us near our customers' locations and allows us to assist them in consolidating their supply base and lowering
their production costs. We believe our balanced sales distribution lowers our exposure to any particular geography and improves our financial profile.

•

Strong management team and employee base.We believe our
management team has the experience necessary to effectively execute our strategy and advance our product and technology leadership. Our Chief Executive Officer and segment leaders average more than
20 years of industry experience. They are supported by an experienced and talented management team who is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our position as a global leader in the industry.

We
have approximately 84,000 employees located throughout the world. We continue to emphasize employee development and training, and we embrace diversity and inclusion. Our strong employee base, along
with their commitment to uncompromising values, provides the foundation of our company's success.

Segments

Below is a description of our reporting segments and the primary products sold by each segment. See Notes 1 and 23 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional segment and geographic financial information relating to our business. Prior period segment results have been revised to conform to the current segment
reporting structure.

Transportation Solutions

The Transportation Solutions segment is a leader in electronic components, including terminals and connectors, relays, and sensors, as
well as application tooling, wire and heat shrink tubing, and other custom-engineered solutions for the automotive market including the industrial and commercial vehicle









and
hybrid and electric vehicle markets. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment:

•

Terminals and connector systems and components.We offer
an extensive range of electrical and electronic interconnection products. These connectors include a wide variety of pin and socket, terminal, USB, coaxial, input/output, fiber optic, power, and
circular connectors, as well as ambient lighting assemblies, special purpose cable assemblies, sophisticated interconnection products used in complex commercial equipment, and custom connectivity
solutions for harsh environment applications. This product family represents over 75% of the segment's net sales.

•

Relays.Our relay products can be used in a wide range of
applications in the automotive and commercial vehicle industries, including electric sunroofs, anti-lock braking systems, and fuel injection coils.

•

Circuit protection devices.We offer a diverse range of
circuit protection devices, which limit the flow of current during fault conditions and automatically reset after the fault is cleared and power to the circuit is restored.

•

Sensors.We offer a customized engineered portfolio of
non-contact position and speed sensor technologies mainly for the automotive and commercial vehicle industries that include high measurement standards, robust housing technologies, and temperature
stable designs for a variety of powertrain, safety, and chassis applications.

•

Application tooling.We offer a broad portfolio of hand
tools, semi-automatic bench machines, and fully-automatic machine systems for processing terminal products.

•

Wire and heat shrink tubing.We offer reliable,
cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses. We also provide high temperature wire for harsh environments on passenger and
commercial vehicles.

The
above product families represent over 90% of the Transportation Solutions segment's net sales.

Network Solutions

The Network Solutions segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of infrastructure components and systems for the
telecommunications market and electronic components for the data communications market. Our products include connectors, fiber optics, wire and cable, racks and panels, and wireless products. We also
are a leader in developing, manufacturing, installing, and maintaining some of the world's most advanced subsea fiber optic communications systems. The following are the primary product families sold
by the segment:

•Terminals and connector systems and components.We offer
an extensive range of low, medium, and high-voltage connectors and splices, cable assemblies, sealing systems, terminals, fittings, lugs and clamps, transmission line fittings, splice closures,
grounding hardware, and wall and floor outlets for voice and data connection to local area networks.•Fiber optics.We provide fiber optic connectors, splices,
splice closures, fiber management systems, high density cable assemblies, couplers and splitters, and complete cabling systems. These products find use in both local-area and wide-area networks and
"last-mile" fiber-to-the-home installations.•Wire and cable.We provide wire and cable for indoor and
outdoor use in office, factory floor, school, and residential voice, data, and video networks, including copper and fiber optic distribution cables, shielded and unshielded twisted-pair cables,
armored cable, and patch cords.









•Racks and panels.We provide racks and panels that are
used to integrate, organize, and manage fiber and copper cables and splices, thereby simplifying installation, maintenance, and upgrades for both exchange/head end and customer premise environments.•Wireless.We offer solutions for radio frequency
distribution and distributed antenna systems. These products provide wireless coverage and capacity, and operate as an extension of the wireless network, expanding the reach of both in-building and
outdoor signals.•Undersea telecommunication systems.We design, build,
maintain, and test undersea fiber optic networks for the telecommunication and oil and gas markets.

The
above product families represent over 90% of the Network Solutions segment's net sales.

Industrial Solutions

The Industrial Solutions segment is a leading supplier of products that connect and distribute power and data, including connectors,
heat shrink tubing, relays, and wire and cable, as well as custom-engineered solutions. Our products are used primarily in the industrial; aerospace, defense, and marine; and energy markets. The
following are the primary product families sold by the segment:

•Terminals and connector systems and components.We offer
connector products including a wide variety of pin and socket, terminal, USB, coaxial, input/output, fiber optic, and power connectors, as well as sophisticated interconnection products used in
equipment offered to the aerospace, defense, marine, and medical industries. Additionally, we serve the aerospace, defense, and marine industries by offering custom connectivity solutions for harsh
environment applications.•Heat shrink tubing.We offer hundreds of reliable,
cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses. We also provide customized harnessing design, prototype, and build services.•Relays.Our relay products can be used in a variety of
applications in the industrial and high performance applications for the aerospace, defense, and marine industries.•Wire and cable.We provide wire and cable for indoor and
outdoor use in office, factory floor, and extreme environment applications, including copper and fiber optic distribution cables, shielded and unshielded twisted-pair cables, armored cable, and patch
cords. Additionally, we provide highly-engineered cable and wire products and a broad range of cables suitable for use in rugged applications within the aerospace, defense, and marine industries.

The
above product families represent over 90% of the Industrial Solutions segment's net sales.

Consumer Solutions

The Consumer Solutions segment is a top supplier of electronic components, including connectors, circuit protection devices, relays,
antennas, and heat shrink tubing, for the consumer devices and appliances markets. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment:

•Terminals and connector systems and components.We provide
connector products including a wide variety of electronic grounding, shielding, and contact, SIM memory card, terminal, USB, input/output, and a variety of board level signal and power connectors as
well as memory and CPU sockets. Also, we design and manufacture power cables and cable assemblies for high data rate transmission and sophisticated interconnection products used in smartphone,
computing, tablet computer, appliances, and consumer electronics OEM products.•Circuit protection devices.We offer a diverse range of
circuit protection devices, which limit the flow of current during fault conditions and automatically reset after the fault is cleared and









power
to the circuit is restored. We also offer surface-mount chip fuses, gas discharge tubes for overvoltage protection, electrostatic discharge protection devices, and hybrid protection devices.•Relays.We provide relay products for a wide range of
applications in the consumer devices and appliances markets.•Antennas.We offer application specific and standard
antenna products in a variety of structures to enable our customers to complete the transmission of wireless voice and data over a full range of protocols.•Heat shrink tubing.We offer hundreds of reliable,
cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses.

The
above product families represent over 90% of the Consumer Solutions segment's net sales.

Markets

We sell our products to manufacturers and distributors in a number of major markets. The approximate percentage of our total net sales
by market in fiscal 2013 was as follows:

MarketsPercentageAutomotive41%Telecom Networks9Industrial9Aerospace, Defense, and Marine8Consumer Devices8Energy6Data Communications6Appliances5Enterprise Networks5Subsea Communications3Total100%

Our major markets are as follows:

•Automotive.The automotive and industrial transportation
industry uses our products in automotive technologies for body and chassis systems, convenience applications, driver information, infotainment solutions, miniaturization solutions, motor and
powertrain applications, sensor technologies, and safety and security systems. Hybrid and electronic mobility solutions include in-vehicle technologies, battery technologies, and charging solutions.
Our industrial and commercial transportation products are used in on- and off-highway vehicles and recreational vehicles.•Telecom networks.Our products are used by communication
service providers to facilitate the high-speed delivery of services from central offices to customer premises. We offer fiber and copper infrastructure, power distribution, fiber-to-the-premises, and
fiber-to-the-node connectivity solutions for the central office and data center, to the outside plant, cell site, and multi-dwelling unit buildings. We develop and manufacture telecommunication
products which are used to build out broadband communications infrastructure as well as upgrade networks. Our networking products are used in routers, switches, optical transport, and access equipment
for converged voice and data transmission. We offer solutions for distributed antenna systems, wireless infrastructure equipment, and high speed wireless indoor/outdoor base stations.









•

Industrial.Our products are used in factory automation
and process control systems such as industrial controls, robotics, human machine interface, industrial communication, and power distribution. Our intelligent building products are used to connect
lighting, HVAC, elevators/escalators, and security. Our rail products are used in high-speed trains, metros, light rail vehicles, locomotives, and signaling switching equipment. The medical industry
uses our products in diagnostic, therapeutic, surgical, and interventional applications. Also, our products are used by the solar and lighting industry.

•

Aerospace, defense, and marine.We provide components and
solutions for the commercial aerospace industry, from the initial stages of aircraft design to aftermarket support. Our defense products include ruggedized electronic interconnects serving military
aviation, marine, and ground vehicles including electronic warfare and space systems. Our marine products include cables and electronics used for harsh subsea environments in the offshore oil and gas
and civil marine industries and in shipboard, subsea, and sonar applications.

•

Consumer devices.Our products and connectivity solutions
are used in numerous consumer devices, including smart phones, tablet computers, desktop computers, televisions, gaming systems, digital and video cameras, printers and copiers, and business and
retail equipment.

•

Energy.Our products are used in the electrical power
industry and include a wide range of solutions for the electrical power generation, transmission, distribution, smart grid, and industrial markets.

•

Data communications.Our products and solutions are used
in a variety of equipment architectures within the networking equipment, data center equipment, and wireless infrastructure industries.

•

Appliances.Our products are used in many household
appliances, including washers and dryers, refrigerators, air conditioners, dishwashers, cooking appliances, water heaters, and microwaves.

•

Enterprise networks.We provide cable, connectivity, and
cable management solutions for networks that enable high-bandwidth voice and data communications throughout facilities including data centers, commercial buildings, and office campuses. Our products
support networks in a variety of industries, including healthcare, government, gaming and hospitality, financial services, education, and transportation.

•

Subsea communications.Our products are used in undersea
fiber optic telecommunication systems. With vertically integrated undersea communications systems and services, we support the telecommunications and oil and gas industries, and other customers
seeking marine services.

Customers

We collaborate closely with our customers to meet their product needs. Our approach to our customers is driven by our dedication to
further develop our product families and ensure that we are globally positioned to best provide our customers with sales and engineering support. We believe that as electronic component technologies
continue to proliferate, our broad product portfolio and engineering capability give us a potential competitive advantage when addressing the needs of our global customers.









We
maintain a strong local presence in each of the geographic regions in which we operate. Our net sales by geographic region as a percentage of our total net sales were as
follows(1):

Fiscal201320122011Europe/Middle East/Africa34%34%36%Asia–Pacific333433Americas(2)333231Total100%100%100%

(1)Net sales to external customers is attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale.(2)The
Americas includes our Subsea Communications business.

There is no single customer that accounted for a significant amount of our net sales in fiscal 2013, 2012, or 2011.

Sales, Marketing, and Distribution

We sell our products into more than 150 countries primarily through direct selling efforts to manufacturers. We also sell some of our
products indirectly via third-party distributors. In fiscal 2013, our direct sales represented 74% of net sales, with the remainder provided by sales to third-party distributors and independent
manufacturer representatives.

We
maintain distribution centers around the world. Products are generally delivered to these distribution centers by our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the
customer. In some instances, product is delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products via road, rail,
sea, and air.

Seasonality and Backlog

Customer orders typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon business conditions and cancellation of unfilled orders prior to
shipment of goods. We experience a slight seasonal pattern to our business. Overall, the third fiscal quarter is typically the strongest quarter of our fiscal year, whereas the first and fourth fiscal
quarters are negatively affected by winter holidays and European holidays, respectively. The second fiscal quarter may also be affected by adverse winter weather conditions in some of our markets.

Certain
of our end markets experience some seasonality. Our sales into the automotive market are dependent upon global automotive production, and seasonal declines in European production
may negatively impact net sales in the fourth fiscal quarter. Also, our sales into the telecom networks and energy markets typically increase in the third and fourth fiscal quarters as customer
activity related to outdoor networks increases.









Backlog
by reportable segment was as follows:

Fiscal Year End20132012(in millions)Transportation Solutions$996$874Network Solutions(1)475744Industrial Solutions791743Consumer Solutions307272Total$2,569$2,633

(1)Includes our Subsea Communications business's backlog of $138 million and $352 million at fiscal year
end 2013 and 2012, respectively.

We expect that the majority of our backlog at September 27, 2013 will be filled during fiscal 2014.

Competition

The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and we compete with thousands of companies that range from large
multinational corporations to local manufacturers. Competition is generally on the basis of breadth of product offering, product innovation, price, quality, delivery, and service. Our markets have
generally been growing but with downward pressure on prices. The following is a listing of our major competitors by segment:

•Transportation Solutions.This segment primarily competes
against Yazaki, Delphi, Sumitomo, Molex, Amphenol, and Rosenberger.•Network Solutions.This segment's major competitors
include CommScope, Corning, Huawei Technologies, Amphenol, and Molex. Also, the Subsea Communications business competes against Alcatel-Lucent.•Industrial Solutions.This segment primarily competes
against Amphenol, Esterline, Molex, Phoenix Contact, Hubbell, and 3M.•Consumer Solutions.This segment's major competitors
include Molex, JST Connectors, Japan Aviation Electronics, Amphenol, and Foxconn Technology Group.

Raw Materials

We use a wide variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products. The principal raw materials that we use include plastic
resins for molding, precious metals
such as gold and silver for plating, and other metals such as copper, aluminum, brass, and steel for manufacturing cable, contacts, and other parts that are used for cable and component bodies and
inserts. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. The prices of these materials are driven
by global supply and demand.

Research and Development

We are engaged in both internal and external research and development in an effort to introduce new products to enhance the
effectiveness, ease of use, safety, and reliability of our existing products, and to expand the applications for which the uses of our products are appropriate. We continually evaluate developing
technologies in areas where we may have technological or marketing expertise for possible investment or acquisition.









Our
research and development expense was as follows:

Fiscal201320122011(in millions)Transportation Solutions$193$185$180Network Solutions197200192Industrial Solutions119132135Consumer Solutions677886Total$576$595$593

Intellectual Property

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing
technological innovations, and
licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an
effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities, and monitor the intellectual property claims of others.

We
own a large portfolio of patents that principally relate to electrical, optical, and electronic products. We also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents
and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent
protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the trademarks.

While
we consider our patents and trademarks to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position or our operations are dependent upon or would be materially impacted by
any single patent or group of related patents.

Employees

As of September 27, 2013, we employed approximately 84,000 people worldwide, of whom 27,000 were in the Americas region, 27,000
were in the Europe/Middle East/Africa region, and 30,000 were in the Asia–Pacific region. Of our total employees, approximately 49,000 were employed in manufacturing.

Government Regulation and Supervision

The import and export of products are subject to regulation by the United States ("U.S.") and other countries. A small portion of our
products, including defense-related products, may require governmental import and export licenses, whose issuance may be influenced by geopolitical and other events. We have a trade compliance
organization and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with such regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with domestic and foreign trade regulation could limit our
ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction.

Environmental

Our operations are subject to numerous environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge
of materials into the environment, greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous materials in products, chemical usage, and others. We are committed to complying with these laws and to the protection of our
employees and the environment. We maintain a global









environmental,
health, and safety program that includes appropriate policies and standards, staff dedicated to environmental, health, and safety issues, periodic compliance auditing, training, and
other measures. We have a program for compliance with the European Union ("EU") Restriction of Hazardous Substances and Waste Electrical and Electronics Equipment Directives, the China Restriction of
Hazardous Substances law, the EU REACH (chemical registration and evaluation) Regulation, and similar laws.

Compliance
with these laws has in the past and may in the future increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways. For example, laws regarding product content and chemical
registration require extensive and costly data collection, management, and reporting, and laws regulating greenhouse gas emissions are likely to increase our costs for energy and certain materials and
products. We also have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. Based upon
our experience, current information, and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we will incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $12 million to $24 million. As of
September 27, 2013, we believe that the best estimate within this range is approximately $13 million. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2014 for
environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with laws or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions.

Corporate History

Tyco Electronics Ltd. was incorporated in Bermuda in fiscal 2000 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tyco International Ltd.
("Tyco International"). Effective June 29, 2007, Tyco International distributed all of our shares, as well as its shares of its former healthcare business, to its common shareholders (referred
to in this report as the "separation"). We became an independent, publicly traded company owning the former electronics businesses of Tyco International.

Our
business was formed principally through a series of acquisitions, from fiscal 1999 through fiscal 2002, of established electronics companies and divisions, including the acquisition
of AMP Incorporated and Raychem Corporation in fiscal 1999, and the Electromechanical Components Division of Siemens and OEM Division of Thomas & Betts in fiscal 2000. These companies each had
more than 50 years of history in engineering and innovation excellence. We operated as a segment of Tyco International prior to our separation.

Effective
June 25, 2009, we discontinued our existence as a Bermuda company and, in accordance with article 161 of the Swiss Federal Code on International Private Law,
continued our existence as a Swiss corporation under articles 620 et seq. of the Swiss Code of Obligations. The rights of holders of our shares are governed by Swiss law, our Swiss articles of
association, and our Swiss organizational regulations.

In
March 2011, our shareholders approved an amendment to our articles of association to change our name from "Tyco Electronics Ltd." to "TE Connectivity Ltd." The name
change was effective March 10, 2011. Our ticker symbol "TEL" on the New York Stock Exchange remained unchanged.

We
acquired Deutsch Group SAS ("Deutsch") and ADC Telecommunications, Inc. ("ADC") in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information relating to these acquisitions.









Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration filings, and other filings that we are required to file with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") are available free of charge through our internet website atwww.te.com. Such documents are available as
soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing or furnishing of the material with the SEC.

The
public may also read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549.
Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site atwww.sec.govthat contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from
which investors can electronically access our SEC filings.

TE
Connectivity and TE Connectivity (logo) are trademarks. © 2013 TE Connectivity Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

