ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

TE Connectivity Ltd. ("TE Connectivity" or the "Company," which may be referred to as "we," "us," or "our") is a global
technology leader. We design and manufacture connectivity and sensors solutions that are essential in today's increasingly connected world. We help our customers solve the need for intelligent,
efficient, and high-performing products and solutions.

We
operate through three reportable segments: Transportation Solutions, Industrial Solutions, and Communications Solutions. Our segments manufacture and distribute our products and
solutions to a number of end markets. The table below provides a summary of our reportable segments and the key products and industry end markets that we serve:

SegmentKey ProductsKey MarketsTransportation Solutions•Terminals and connector systems•Sensors•Relays•Application tooling•Wire and heat shrink tubing•Automotive•Commercial transportation•SensorsIndustrial Solutions•Terminals and connector systems•Heat shrink tubing•Relays•Wire and cable•Industrial equipment•Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas•EnergyCommunications Solutions•Terminals and connector systems•Undersea telecommunication systems•Circuit protection devices•Antennas•Relays•Heat shrink tubing•Data and devices•Subsea communications•Appliances

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe that we have the following competitive strengths:

•Portfolio of market-leading connectivity and sensors
businesses.We are a leader in many of the markets we serve, and the opportunity for growth in those markets is significant. We believe
our three segments serve a combined market of approximately $170 billion that is expected to grow at an estimated annual growth rate of approximately 6% over the next five years.•Global leader in passive components.With net sales of
$12.2 billion in fiscal 2015, we are significantly larger than many of our competitors. In the fragmented connector industry, which we estimated to be approximately $50 billion in fiscal
2015, our net sales were approximately $8.4 billion. We have established a global leadership position in the connector industry.Our
scale provides us the opportunity to accelerate our sales growth by making larger investments in existing and new technologies and businesses in our core markets, and to expand our presence in
emerging markets. Our leadership position also provides us the opportunity to lower our purchasing costs by developing lower cost sources of supply and to maintain a flexible manufacturing footprint
worldwide that is close to our customers' locations.•Strong customer relationships.As an industry leader, we
have established close working relationships with many of our customers. These relationships allow us to better anticipate and









respond
to customer needs when designing new products and new technical solutions. By working with our customers in developing new products and technologies, we believe we are able to identify and act
on trends and leverage knowledge about next-generation technology across our products.

•

Process and product technology leadership.We employ
approximately 7,200 engineers dedicated to product research, development, and engineering. Our investment of over $625 million in product and process engineering and development and our capital
spending of $600 million in fiscal 2015 enable us to consistently provide innovative, high-quality products with efficient manufacturing methods. In fiscal 2015, we derived approximately 20% of
our net sales from new products, including product extensions, introduced within the previous three fiscal years.

•

Diverse product mix and customer base.We manufacture and
sell a broad portfolio of products to customers in various industries. Our customers include many of the leaders in their respective industries, and our relationships with them typically date back
many years. We believe that this diversified customer base provides us an opportunity to leverage our skills and experience across markets and reduce our exposure to individual end markets, thereby
reducing the variability of our financial performance. Additionally, we believe that the diversity of our customer base reduces the level of cyclicality in our results and distinguishes us from our
competitors.

•

Global presence.We have an established manufacturing
presence in over 20 countries and global sales distribution. Our global coverage positions us near our customers' locations and allows us to assist them in consolidating their supply base and lowering
their production costs. We believe our balanced sales distribution lowers our exposure to any particular geography and improves our financial profile.

•

Strong management team and employee base.We believe our
management team has the experience necessary to effectively execute our strategy and advance our product and technology leadership. Our chief executive officer, president, and segment leaders average
approximately 25 years of industry experience. They are supported by an experienced and talented management team who is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our position as a global leader in
the industry.

We
have employees located throughout the world. We continue to emphasize employee development and training, and we embrace diversity and inclusion. Our strong employee base, along with their
commitment to uncompromising values, provides the foundation of our company's success.

Segments

During fiscal 2015, we reorganized our management structure and segments to better align the organization around our strategy. Prior
period segment results have been revised to conform to the current segment reporting structure. See Notes 1 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional segment and geographic
information relating to our business. Below is a description of our reportable segments and the primary products sold by each segment.

Transportation Solutions

The Transportation Solutions segment is a leader in connectivity and sensor technologies. Our products, which must withstand harsh
conditions, are used in the automotive, commercial transportation, and sensors markets. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment:

•Terminals and connector systems and components.We offer
an extensive range of electrical and electronic interconnection products. These connectors include a wide variety of pin and socket,









terminal,
USB, coaxial, input/output, fiber optic, power, and circular connectors, as well as ambient lighting assemblies, special purpose cable assemblies, sophisticated interconnection products used
in complex commercial equipment, and custom connectivity solutions for harsh environment applications. This product family represents approximately 80% of the segment's net sales.•Sensors.We offer a customized engineered portfolio of
non-contact position and speed sensor technologies mainly for the automotive and commercial vehicle industries that include high measurement standards, robust housing technologies, and temperature
stable designs for a variety of powertrain, safety, and chassis applications.•Relays.Our relay products can be used in a wide range of
applications in the automotive and commercial vehicle industries, including electric sunroofs, anti-lock braking systems, and fuel injection coils.•Application tooling.We offer a broad portfolio of hand
tools, semi-automatic bench machines, and fully-automatic machine systems for processing terminal products.•Wire and heat shrink tubing.We provide a complete
solution of reliable, cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses. We also provide high temperature wire for harsh environments
on passenger and commercial vehicles.

Industrial Solutions

The Industrial Solutions segment is a leading supplier of products that connect and distribute power, data, and signals. Our products
are used in the industrial equipment; aerospace, defense, oil, and gas; and energy markets. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment:

•Terminals and connector systems and components.We offer
connector products including a wide variety of pin and socket, terminal, USB, coaxial, input/output, fiber optic, and power connectors, as well as sophisticated interconnection products used in
equipment offered to the aerospace, defense, oil, gas, and medical industries. Additionally, we serve the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas industries by offering custom connectivity solutions for
harsh environment applications.•Heat shrink tubing.We provide a complete solution of
reliable, cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses. We also provide customized harnessing design, prototype, and build
services.•Relays.Our relay products can be used in a wide range of
applications in the industrial and aerospace, defense, oil, and gas industries, including high-performance applications used in harsh environments.•Wire and cable.We provide highly-engineered cable and
wire products and a broad range of cables suitable for use in rugged applications within the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas industries. Additionally, we provide wire and cable for extreme
environment applications, including copper and fiber optic distribution cables, shielded and unshielded twisted-pair cables, and armored cable.

Communications Solutions

The Communications Solutions segment is a top supplier of electronic components for the data and devices and appliances markets. We are
also a leader in developing, manufacturing, installing, and









maintaining
some of the world's most advanced subsea fiber optic communications systems. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment:

•

Terminals and connector systems and components.We
provide connector products including a broad range of electronic grounding, shielding, and contact; SIM memory card; terminal; USB; input/output; and a variety of board level signal and power
connectors as well as memory and CPU sockets. Also, we design and manufacture power cables and cable assemblies for high data rate transmission and sophisticated interconnection products used in
smartphone, computing, tablet computer, appliances, and consumer electronics OEM products.

•

Undersea telecommunication systems.We design, build,
maintain, and test undersea fiber optic networks for the telecommunication and oil and gas markets.

•

Circuit protection devices.We offer a diverse range of
circuit protection devices, which limit the flow of current during fault conditions and automatically reset after the fault is cleared and power to the circuit is restored. We also offer surface-mount
chip fuses, gas discharge tubes for overvoltage protection, electrostatic discharge protection devices, and hybrid protection devices.

•

Antennas.We offer application specific and standard
antenna products in a variety of structures to enable our customers to complete the transmission of wireless voice and data over a full range of protocols.

•

Relays.We provide relay products for a wide range of
applications in the data and devices and appliances markets.

•

Heat shrink tubing.We offer hundreds of reliable,
cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses.

Markets

We sell our products to manufacturers and distributors in a number of major markets. The approximate percentage of our total net sales
by end market in fiscal 2015 was as follows:

MarketsPercentageAutomotive39%Data and Devices11Industrial Equipment11Aerospace, Defense, Oil, and Gas9Commercial Transportation7Sensors6Subsea Communications6Energy6Appliances5​​​​​Total100%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Our
major markets are as follows:

•Automotive.We are one of the leading providers of
advanced automobile connectivity solutions. The automotive industry uses our products in automotive technologies for body and chassis systems, convenience applications, driver information,
infotainment solutions, miniaturization solutions, motor and powertrain applications, and safety and security systems. Hybrid and electronic mobility solutions include in-vehicle technologies, battery
technologies, and charging solutions.









•

Data and devices.We deliver a range of connectivity
solutions for the Internet of Things, wearables, smart phones, tablet computers, and notebooks to help our customers meet their current challenges and future innovations. In addition, our products and
solutions are used in a variety of equipment architectures within the networking equipment, data center equipment, and wireless infrastructure industries.

•

Industrial equipment.Our products are used in factory
automation and process control systems such as industrial controls, robotics, human machine interface, industrial communication, and power distribution. Our intelligent building products are used to
connect lighting, HVAC, elevators/escalators, and security. Our rail products are used in high-speed trains, metros, light rail vehicles, locomotives, and signaling switching equipment. The medical
industry uses our products in diagnostic, therapeutic, surgical, and interventional applications. Also, our products are used by the solar and lighting industry.

•

Aerospace, defense, oil, and gas.We provide components
and solutions for the commercial aerospace industry, from the initial stages of aircraft design to aftermarket support. Our defense products include ruggedized electronic interconnects serving
military aviation, marine, and ground vehicles including electronic warfare and space systems. Our oil and gas products include cables and electronics used for harsh subsea environments in the
offshore oil and gas and civil marine industries and in shipboard, subsea, and sonar applications.

•

Commercial transportation.We deliver reliable
connectivity products designed to withstand harsh environmental conditions for on-and off-highway vehicles and recreational transportation, including construction, agriculture, buses, and other
recreational vehicles.

•

Sensors.We offer a portfolio of intelligent, efficient,
and high-performing sensor solutions that are used by customers across multiple industries, from automotive, industrial and commercial transportation, and aerospace and defense, to medical solutions
and consumer applications.

•

Subsea communications.Our products are used in undersea
fiber optic telecommunication systems. With vertically integrated undersea communications systems and services, we support the telecommunications and oil and gas industries and other customers seeking
marine services.

•

Energy.Our products are used by OEMs and utility
companies in the electrical power industry and include a wide range of solutions for the electrical power generation, transmission, distribution, and industrial markets.

•

Appliances.We provide solutions to meet the daily
demands of home appliances. Our products are used in many household appliances, including washers, dryers, refrigerators, air conditioners, dishwashers, cooking appliances, water heaters, and
microwaves. Our expansive range of standard products is supplemented by an array of custom-designed solutions.

Customers

We collaborate closely with our customers to meet their product needs. Our approach to our customers is driven by our dedication to
further develop our product families and ensure that we are globally positioned to best provide our customers with sales and engineering support. We believe that as electronic component technologies
continue to proliferate, our broad product portfolio and engineering capability give us a potential competitive advantage when addressing the needs of our global customers.









We
maintain a strong local presence in each of the geographic regions in which we operate. Our net sales by geographic region(1)as a percentage of our total net sales were
as follows:

Fiscal201520142013Americas(2)34%30%30%Asia–Pacific333535Europe/Middle East/Africa ("EMEA")333535​​​​​​​​​​​Total100%100%100%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)Net
sales to external customers are attributed to individual countries based on the legal entity that records the sale.(2)The
Americas includes our subsea communications business.

There
is no single customer that accounted for a significant amount of our net sales in fiscal 2015, 2014, or 2013.

Sales, Marketing, and Distribution

We sell our products into approximately 150 countries primarily through direct selling efforts to manufacturers. We also sell some of
our products indirectly via third-party distributors. In fiscal 2015, our direct sales represented 80% of net sales.

We
maintain distribution centers around the world. Products are generally delivered to these distribution centers by our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the
customer. In some instances, product is delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products via road, rail,
sea, and air.

Seasonality and Backlog

We experience a slight seasonal pattern to our business. Overall, the third fiscal quarter is typically the strongest quarter of our
fiscal year, whereas the first and fourth fiscal quarters are negatively affected by winter holidays and European holidays, respectively. The second fiscal quarter may be affected by adverse winter
weather conditions in some of our markets.

Certain
of our end markets experience some seasonality. Our sales into the automotive market are dependent upon global automotive production, and seasonal declines in European production
may negatively impact net sales in the fourth fiscal quarter. Also, our sales into the energy market typically increase in the third and fourth fiscal quarters as customer activity increases.









Customer
orders typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon business conditions and cancellation of unfilled orders prior to shipment of goods. Backlog by reportable segment
was as follows:

Fiscal Year End20152014(in millions)Transportation Solutions$1,208$989Industrial Solutions814850Communications Solutions(1)1,3101,158​​​​​​​​Total$3,332$2,997​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)Includes
our subsea communications business' backlog of $995 million and $774 million at fiscal year end 2015 and 2014, respectively.

We
expect that the majority of our backlog at September 25, 2015 will be filled during fiscal 2016.

Competition

The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and we compete with thousands of companies that range from large
multinational corporations to local manufacturers. Competition is generally on the basis of breadth of product offering, product innovation, price, quality, delivery, and service. Our markets have
generally been growing but with downward pressure on prices. The following is a listing of our major competitors by segment:

•Transportation Solutions.This segment's major
competitors include Yazaki, Delphi, Sumitomo, Sensata, Honeywell, Molex, and Amphenol.•Industrial Solutions.This segment competes primarily
against Amphenol, Esterline, Molex, Belden, Phoenix Contact, Hubbell, and Carlisle Companies.•Communications Solutions.This segment's major
competitors include Amphenol, Molex, FCI Electronics, JST, Korea Electric Terminal (KET), and Bourns. Also, the subsea communications business competes against Alcatel-Lucent and NEC.

Raw Materials

We use a wide variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products. The principal raw materials that we use include plastic
resins for molding, precious metals such as gold and silver for plating, and other metals such as copper, aluminum, brass, and steel for manufacturing cable, contacts, and other parts that are used
for cable and component bodies and inserts. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. The
prices of these materials are driven by global supply and demand.

Research and Development

We are engaged in both internal and external research and development in an effort to introduce new products to enhance the
effectiveness, ease of use, safety, and reliability of our existing products, and to expand the applications for which the uses of our products are appropriate. We continually evaluate developing
technologies in areas where we may have technological or marketing expertise for possible investment or acquisition.









Our
research and development expense was as follows:

Fiscal201520142013(in millions)Transportation Solutions$262$196$199Industrial Solutions128128121Communications Solutions150160174​​​​​​​​​​​Total$540$484$494​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Intellectual Property

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing
technological innovations, and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including patents and patent applications, as
available, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities, and monitor the intellectual
property claims of others.

We
own a large portfolio of patents that relate principally to electrical, optical, and electronic products. We also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents
and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent
protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the trademarks.

While
we consider our patents and trademarks to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position or our operations are dependent upon or would be materially impacted by
any single patent or group of related patents.

Employees

As of September 25, 2015, we employed approximately 72,000 people worldwide, of whom 22,000 were in the Americas region, 25,000
were in the Asia–Pacific region, and 25,000 were in the EMEA region. Of our total employees, approximately 45,000 were employed in manufacturing.

Government Regulation and Supervision

The import and export of products are subject to regulation by the United States ("U.S.") and other countries. A small portion of our
products, including defense-related products, may require governmental import and export licenses, whose issuance may be influenced by geopolitical and other events. We have a trade compliance
organization and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with such regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with domestic and foreign trade regulation could limit our
ability to import and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction.

Environmental

Our operations are subject to numerous environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge
of materials into the environment, greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous materials in products, and chemical usage. We are committed to complying with these laws and to the protection of our employees
and the environment. We maintain a global environmental, health, and safety program that includes appropriate policies and standards; staff dedicated to









environmental,
health, and safety issues; periodic compliance auditing; training; and other measures. We also have a program for compliance with the European Union ("EU") Restriction of Hazardous
Substances and Waste Electrical and Electronics Equipment Directives, the China Restriction of Hazardous Substances law, the EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals
("REACH") Regulation, and similar laws.

Compliance
with these laws has increased our costs of doing business in a variety of ways and may continue to do so in the future. For example, laws regarding product content and
chemical registration require extensive and costly data collection, management, and reporting, and laws regulating greenhouse gas emissions are likely to increase our costs for energy and certain
materials and products. We also have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past
operations. Based upon our experience, current information, and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we will incur remedial costs in the range of $16 million to
$38 million, and that the best estimate within this range is $19 million. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2016 for environmental control facilities
or other costs of compliance with laws or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions.

Corporate History

We are organized under the laws of Switzerland. The rights of holders of our shares are governed by Swiss law, our Swiss articles of
association, and our Swiss organizational regulations.

Our
business was formed principally through a series of acquisitions, from fiscal 1999 through fiscal 2002, of established electronics companies and divisions, including AMP
Incorporated, Raychem Corporation, the Electromechanical Components Division of Siemens, and the OEM Division of Thomas & Betts. These companies each had more than 50 years of history in
engineering and innovation excellence. We operated as a segment of Tyco International plc ("Tyco International") prior to our separation.

Tyco
Electronics Ltd. was incorporated in fiscal 2000 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tyco International. Effective June 29, 2007, Tyco International distributed all of our
shares, as well as its shares of its former healthcare businesses ("Covidien"), to its common shareholders (referred to in this report as the "separation"). We became an independent, publicly traded
company owning the former electronics
businesses of Tyco International. On January 26, 2015, Covidien was acquired and now operates as a subsidiary of Medtronic plc.

In
March 2011, our shareholders approved an amendment to our articles of association to change our name from "Tyco Electronics Ltd." to "TE Connectivity Ltd." The name
change was effective March 10, 2011. Our ticker symbol "TEL" on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") remained unchanged.

We
acquired Measurement Specialties, Inc. ("Measurement Specialties") and divested our Broadband Network Solutions ("BNS") business in fiscal 2015. See Notes 4 and 5 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations and acquisitions.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration filings, and other filings that we are required to file with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") are available free of charge through our internet website atwww.te.com. Such documents are available as
soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing or furnishing of the material with the SEC.









The public may also read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition,
the SEC maintains an internet site atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access our SEC filings.

TE
Connectivity and TE Connectivity (logo) are trademarks. © 2015 TE Connectivity Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

