ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

TE Connectivity Ltd. ("TE Connectivity," or the "Company," which may be referred to as "we," "us," or "our") is a global company
that designs and manufactures approximately 500,000 products that connect and protect the flow of power and data inside millions of products used by consumers and industries. We partner with customers
in a broad array of industries from consumer electronics, energy, and healthcare to automotive, aerospace, and communication networks.

In
March 2011, our shareholders approved an amendment to our articles of association to change our name from "Tyco Electronics Ltd." to "TE Connectivity Ltd." The name
change was effective March 10, 2011. Our ticker symbol "TEL" on the New York Stock Exchange remained unchanged.

Tyco
Electronics Ltd. was incorporated in Bermuda in fiscal 2000 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of then Bermuda-based Tyco International Ltd. ("Tyco International").
Effective June 29, 2007, Tyco International distributed all of our shares to its common shareholders (referred to in this report as the "separation"). We became an independent, publicly traded
company owning the former electronics businesses of Tyco International.

Our
business was formed principally through a series of acquisitions, from fiscal 1999 through fiscal 2002, of established electronics companies and divisions, including the acquisition
of AMP Incorporated and Raychem Corporation in fiscal 1999, and the Electromechanical Components Division of Siemens and OEM Division of Thomas & Betts in fiscal 2000. These companies each had
more than 50 years of history in engineering and innovation excellence. We operated as a segment of Tyco International prior to our separation.

Effective
June 25, 2009, we discontinued our existence as a Bermuda company as provided in Section 132G of the Companies Act of 1981 of Bermuda, as amended (the "Bermuda
Companies Act"), and, in accordance with article 161 of the Swiss Federal Code on International Private Law, continued our existence as a Swiss corporation under articles 620 et seq. of
the Swiss Code of Obligations. The rights of holders of our shares are governed by Swiss law, our Swiss articles of association, and our Swiss organizational regulations.

We
operate through three reporting segments: Transportation Solutions, Communications and Industrial Solutions, and Network Solutions. See Notes 1 and 23 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information regarding our segments.









Our
reporting segments manufacture and distribute our products and solutions to a number of end markets. The table below provides a summary of our reporting segments, the fiscal 2011 net
sales contribution of each segment, and the key products and industry end markets that we serve:

SegmentTransportationSolutionsCommunications andIndustrial SolutionsNetworkSolutions% of Fiscal 2011 Net Sales39%36%25%Key Products•Connector systems•Connector systems•Connector systems•Relays•Relays•Heat shrink tubing•Circuit protection devices•Touch screens•Wire and cable•Wire and cable•Circuit protection devices•Racks and panels•Heat shrink tubing•Antennas•Fiber optics•Sensors•Heat shrink tubing•Wireless•Application tooling•Undersea telecommunication systemsKey Markets•Automotive•Industrial•Telecom Networks•Aerospace, Defense, and•Data Communications•EnergyMarine•Appliance•Enterprise Networks•Consumer Devices•Subsea•Computer•Communications•Touch Solutions

See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for certain segment and geographic financial information relating to our business.

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe that we have the following competitive strengths:

•Portfolio of market-leading connectivity businesses.We
are leaders in many of the markets we serve, and the opportunity for growth in those markets is significant. We believe our three segments serve a combined approximately $90 billion market that
is expected to grow at an estimated annual growth rate of 6% over the next five years.•Global leader in passive components.With net sales of
$14.3 billion in fiscal 2011, we are significantly larger than many of our competitors. In the fragmented connector industry, which we estimated to be approximately $48 billion in fiscal
2011, our net sales were approximately $8.5 billion. We have established a global leadership position in the connector industry with leading market positions in the following
markets:•Automotive—#1•Industrial—#1•Telecom/data communications—#2•Computers and peripherals—#3

Our
scale provides us the opportunity to accelerate our sales growth by making larger investments in existing and new technologies in our core markets and to expand our presence in emerging markets.
Our leadership position also provides us the opportunity to lower our purchasing costs by developing lower cost sources of supply and to maintain a flexible manufacturing footprint worldwide that is
close to our customers' locations.

•Strong customer relationships.As an industry leader, we
have established close working relationships with many of our customers. These relationships allow us to better anticipate and respond to customer needs when designing new products and new technical
solutions. By working with our customers in developing new products and technologies, we believe we are able









to
identify and act on trends and leverage knowledge about next-generation technology across our products.

•

Process and product technology leadership.We employ
approximately 7,500 engineers dedicated to product research, development, and engineering. Our investment of $733 million in product and process engineering and development together with our
capital spending of $581 million in fiscal 2011 enable us to consistently provide innovative, high-quality products with efficient manufacturing methods.

•

Diverse product mix and customer base.We manufacture and
sell a broad portfolio of products to customers in various industries. Our customers include many of the leaders in their respective industries, and our relationships with them typically date back
many years. We believe that this diversified customer base provides us an opportunity to leverage our skills and experience across markets and reduces our exposure to particular end markets, thereby
reducing the variability of our financial performance. Additionally, we believe that the diversity of our customer base reduces the level of cyclicality in our results and distinguishes us from our
competitors.

•

Global presence.We have an established manufacturing
presence in over 20 countries and our sales are global. Our global coverage positions us near our customers' locations and allows us to assist them in consolidating their supply base and lowering
their production costs. We believe our balanced sales distribution lowers our exposure to any particular geography and improves our financial profile.

•

Strong management team and employee base.We believe our
management team has the experience necessary to effectively execute our strategy and advance our product and technology leadership. Our Chief Executive Officer and segment leaders average more than
25 years of experience, of which most is in the electronics industry. They are supported by an experienced and talented management team that is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our
position as a global leader in the industry.

We
have approximately 95,000 employees who are based throughout the world. We continue to emphasize employee development and training, and we embrace diversity. Our strong employee base, along with
their commitment to uncompromising values, provides the foundation of our company's success.

Our Strategy

We want to be a premier partner to our customers; we want our employees to thrive, be highly engaged, and view our company as a great
place to work; and we want to generate superior returns for our shareholders. These three basic tenets are the focus of our strategy and drive all that we do. Our strategy is built on core values of
integrity, accountability, teamwork, and innovation. We expect our employees to do the right thing, take responsibility, work together, and innovate.

Our
goal is to be the world leader in providing custom-engineered electronic components and solutions for an increasingly connected world. We believe that in achieving this, we will
increase net sales and profitability across our segments in the markets that we serve. We intend to continue our growth by focusing on the following priorities:

•Deliver extraordinary customer service.We are broadening
the concept of service to embrace every aspect of how we reach and serve our customers. We are increasing our focus on our strategic accounts through direct sales, better leveraging the distribution
channel, and revolutionizing our web presence and eBusiness programs. These initiatives, along with our company-wide improvement program designed to improve productivity, reduce costs, and
ultimately deliver greater satisfaction to our customers and greater value to shareholders, will









enable
us to broaden our customer reach and increase customer satisfaction while enabling us to serve customers better and more cost effectively.

•

Strengthen our innovation leadership.Technology
leadership is critical to our business. We seek to continue to strengthen our process and product technology leadership and to increase the percentage of our annual net sales from new products. In
fiscal 2011, we derived approximately 25% of our net sales from new products launched within the previous three years. We intend to continue to focus our research, development, and engineering
investment on next generation technologies and highly engineered products and platforms, and leverage innovation across our segments.

•

Extend our leadership in emerging markets.We seek to
improve our market leadership position in emerging geographic regions, including China, Eastern Europe, Brazil, and India, which we expect will experience higher growth rates than those of more
developed regions in the world. In fiscal 2011, we generated $2.1 billion of net sales in China, $1.1 billion of net sales in Eastern Europe, $0.4 billion of net sales in Brazil,
and $0.2 billion of net sales in India. We believe that expansion in these regions will enable us to grow faster than the overall global market.

•

Lead in smart connectivity.Smart connectivity
complements and expands on innovation leadership. It adds more functionality and intelligence wherever connectivity occurs. Our focus on smart connectivity enables us to provide more value to our
customers by offering products that do more and solve more.

•

Supplement organic growth with strategic partnerships and
acquisitions.We will evaluate and selectively pursue strategic partnerships and acquisitions that strengthen our market position,
enhance our existing product offering, enable us to enter attractive markets, expand our technological capabilities, and provide synergy opportunities.

Our Products

Our net sales by reporting segment as a percentage of our total net sales was as follows:

Fiscal201120102009Transportation Solutions39%40%34%Communications and Industrial Solutions364038Network Solutions252028Total100%100%100%

Transportation Solutions

The Transportation Solutions segment is a leader in electronic components, including connectors, relays, circuit protection devices,
wire and cable, heat shrink tubing, and sensors, as well as application tooling and custom-engineered solutions for the automotive and aerospace, defense, and marine markets. The following are the
primary product families sold by the segment:

•Connector Systems and Components.We offer an extensive
range of electrical and electronic interconnection products. These connectors include a wide variety of pin and socket, terminal, USB, coaxial, input/output, fiber optic, and power connectors, as well
as sophisticated interconnection products used in complex aerospace, defense, and marine equipment.•Relays.Our relay products can be used in a wide range of
applications in the automotive industry, including electric sunroofs, anti-lock braking systems, and fuel injection coils. Also, our









relay
products can be used in a wide range of high-performance applications for the aerospace industry.

•Circuit Protection Devices.We offer a diverse range of
circuit protection devices, which limit the flow of current during fault conditions and automatically reset after the fault is cleared and power to the circuit is restored. We also offer surface-mount
chip fuses, gas discharge tubes for overvoltage protection, electrostatic discharge protection devices, and hybrid protection devices.•Wire and Cable.We provide highly engineered cable and
wire products to the aerospace, defense, and marine markets. We offer a broad range of cable, including NASA-specification cable and other cables suitable for use in rugged applications
within the aerospace, defense, and marine (oil and gas exploration) industries.•Heat Shrink Tubing.We offer hundreds of reliable,
cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses. We also provide customized harnessing design, prototype,
and build services.•Sensors.We offer a customized engineered portfolio of
non-contact position and speed sensor technologies mainly for the automotive industry that include high measurement standards, robust housing technologies, and temperature stable designs
for a variety of powertrain, safety, and chassis applications.•Application Tooling.We offer a broad portfolio of hand
tools, semi-automatic bench machines, and fully-automatic machine systems for processing terminal products.

In
addition to the above product families, which represent over 90% of the Transportation Solutions segment's net sales, we also offer clocksprings, identification products, fiber
optics, resistors and inductors, and switches.

Communications and Industrial Solutions

The Communications and Industrial Solutions segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of electronic components, including
connectors, relays, touch screens, circuit protection devices, antennas, and heat shrink tubing. Our products are used primarily in the industrial machinery, data communications, household appliance,
consumer devices, computer, and touch solutions markets. The following are the primary product families sold by the segment:

•Connector Systems and Components.We offer connector
products including a wide variety of pin and socket, terminal, USB, coaxial, input/output, fiber optic, and power connectors, as well as sophisticated interconnection products used in complex
telecommunications, computer, and medical equipment.•Relays.Our relay products can be used in a wide range of
applications in the telecommunications, industrial, and appliance markets, including signal and power relay technologies for the telecommunications industry.•Touch Screens.We develop, manufacture, and market a
complete line of touch solutions for point-of-sale terminals, self service, process control, medical, and consumer products. We offer component touch systems for original
equipment manufacturers and a broad line of standard and custom LCD touch monitors and computers.•Circuit Protection Devices.We offer a range of circuit
protection devices, which limit the flow of current during fault conditions and automatically reset after the fault is cleared and power to the circuit is restored. We also offer surface-mount chip
fuses, gas discharge tubes for overvoltage protection, electrostatic discharge protection devices, and hybrid protection devices.









•Antennas.We offer application specific and standard
antenna products in a variety of structures to enable our customers to complete the transmission of wireless voice and data over a full range of protocols.•Heat Shrink Tubing.We offer hundreds of reliable,
cost-effective products to seal, connect, insulate, protect, hold, and bundle high-performance electrical harnesses. We also provide customized harnessing design, prototype,
and build services.

In
addition to the above product families, which represent over 90% of the total Communications and Industrial Solutions segment's net sales, the segment also sells identification
products, wire and cable, memory card products, switches, and battery assemblies.

Network Solutions

The Network Solutions segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of infrastructure components and systems for the
telecommunications and energy markets. Our products include connectors, heat shrink tubing, wire and cable, racks and panels, fiber optics, and wireless products. We are also a leader in developing,
manufacturing, installing, and maintaining some of the world's most advanced subsea fiber optic communications systems. The following are the primary product families sold by the
segment:

•

Connector Systems and Components.We offer an extensive
range of low, medium, and high-voltage connectors and splices, cable assemblies, sealing systems, terminals, fittings, lugs and clamps, transmission line fittings, splice closures,
grounding hardware, and wall and floor outlets for voice and data connection to local area networks.

•

Heat Shrink Tubing.We offer heat shrink tubing, heat
shrinkable splice closures, wrap-around sleeves, and molded parts designed to better protect both high- and low-voltage circuits against harsh aerial, buried, and
above-ground environments.

•

Wire and Cable.We provide wire and cable for indoor and
outdoor use in office, factory floor, school, and residential voice, data, and video networks, including copper and fiber optic distribution cables, shielded and unshielded twisted-pair
cables, armored cable, and patch cords.

•

Racks and Panels.We provide racks and panels that are
used to integrate, organize, and manage fiber and copper cables and splices, thereby simplifying installation, maintenance, and upgrades for both exchange/head end and customer premise environments.

•

Fiber Optics.We provide fiber optic connectors, splices,
fiber optic splice closures, fiber management systems, high density cable assemblies, couplers and splitters, and complete cabling systems. These products find use in both local-area and
wide-area networks, and "Last-Mile" Fiber-to-the-Home installations.

•

Wireless.We offer solutions for radio frequency
distribution and distributed antenna systems. These products provide wireless coverage and capacity and operate as an extension of the wireless network, expanding the reach of both
in-building and outdoor signals.

•

Undersea Telecommunication Systems.We design, build,
maintain, and test undersea fiber optic networks for the telecommunication and oil and gas markets.

In
addition to the above product families, which represent over 90% of the total Network Solutions segment's net sales, the segment also sells printed circuit board devices, relays,
network interface devices, and application tooling.









Markets

We sell our products to manufacturers and distributors in a number of major markets. The approximate percentage of our total net sales
by market in fiscal 2011 was as follows:

MarketsPercentageAutomotive34%Telecommunications14Industrial8Telecom Networks8Energy7Computer7Enterprise Networks6Aerospace, Defense, and Marine5Appliance4Medical3Other4Total100%

Automotive.The automotive industry uses our products in motor management systems for combustion and electric vehicles, body electronic
applications,
safety systems, chassis systems, security systems, driver information, passenger entertainment, and comfort and convenience applications. Electronic components regulate critical vehicle functions,
from fuel intake to braking, as well as information, entertainment, and climate control systems.

Telecommunications.Our products are used in telecommunications products, such as data networking equipment, switches, routers, wire
line
infrastructure equipment, wireless infrastructure equipment, wireless base stations, mobile phones, and undersea fiber optic telecommunication systems.

Industrial.Our products are used in factory automation and process control systems, photovoltaic systems, industrial motors and
generators, and
general industrial machinery and equipment.

Telecom Networks.Our products are used by communication service providers to facilitate the high-speed delivery of services from
central
offices to customer premises. This industry services the needs of emerging countries that are building out their communications infrastructure as well as countries upgrading networks to support
high-speed internet connectivity and delivery of high-definition television.

Energy.The energy industry uses our products in power generation equipment and power transmission equipment. The industry has been
investing heavily
to improve, upgrade, and restore existing equipment and systems. In addition, this industry addresses the needs of emerging countries that are building out and upgrading their energy infrastructure.

Computer.Our products are used in computer products, such as servers and storage equipment, workstations, notebook computers, tablets,
desktop
computers, and business and retail equipment.

Enterprise Networks.We provide structured cabling systems and cable management products for commercial buildings and office campuses,
products that
enable high-bandwidth voice and data communications throughout facilities ranging from data centers to office buildings to hotel and resort complexes.









Aerospace, Defense, and Marine.Our products are used in military and commercial aircraft, missile systems, military ground systems,
satellites,
space programs, radar systems, and offshore oil and gas applications.

Appliance.Our products are used in many household appliances, including refrigerators, washers, dryers, dishwashers, and microwaves.

Medical.Our products are used in a wide variety of medical devices, ranging from diagnostic and monitoring equipment, surgical devices,
 ultrasound
systems, and energy-based catheters.

Other.Our products are used in numerous products, including instrumentation and measurement
equipment, commercial and building equipment, building network and cabling systems, and railway equipment. This category also includes products sold through third-party distributors.

Customers

Our customers include automobile, telecommunication, computer, industrial, aerospace, and consumer products manufacturers that operate
both globally and locally. Our customers also include contract manufacturers and third-party distributors. We serve over 200,000 customer locations in over 150 countries, and we maintain a strong
local presence in each of the geographic regions in which we operate.

Our
net sales by geographic region as a percentage of our total net sales were as follows:

Fiscal201120102009Europe/Middle East/Africa36%35%34%Asia-Pacific323429Americas(1)323137Total100%100%100%

(1)The
Americas includes our Subsea Communications business.

See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding geographic regions.

We
collaborate closely with our customers so that their product needs are met. There is no single customer that accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2011, 2010, or
2009. Our approach to our customers is driven by our dedication to further developing our product families and ensuring that we are globally positioned to best provide our customers with sales and
engineering support. We believe that as electronic component technologies continue to proliferate, our broad product portfolio and engineering capability give us a potential competitive advantage when
addressing the needs of our global customers.

Raw Materials

We use a wide variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products. The principal raw materials that we use include plastic
resins for molding, precious metals such as gold and silver for plating, and other metals such as copper, aluminum, brass, and steel for manufacturing cable, contacts, and other parts that are used
for cable and component bodies and inserts. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of countries around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. The
prices of these materials are driven by global supply and demand dynamics.









The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from
the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo ("DRC"). As a result, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") is required to establish new annual disclosure and reporting requirements
for those companies who use "conflict" minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. When these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the sourcing and
availability of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals.

Research and Development

We are engaged in both internal and external research and development in an effort to introduce new products, to enhance the
effectiveness, ease of use, safety, and reliability of our existing products, and to expand the applications for which the uses of our products are appropriate. We continually evaluate developing
technologies in areas where we may have technological or marketing expertise for possible investment or acquisition.

Our
research and development expense for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 was as follows:

Fiscal201120102009(in millions)Transportation Solutions$217$187$172Communications and Industrial Solutions252203181Network Solutions1559286Total$624$482$439

Our research, development, and engineering efforts are supported by approximately 7,500 engineers. These engineers work closely with our customers
to develop application specific, highly engineered products and systems to satisfy the customers' needs. Our new products, including product extensions, introduced during the previous three years
comprised approximately 25% of our net sales for fiscal 2011.

Sales, Marketing, and Distribution

We sell our products into more than 150 countries, and we sell primarily through direct selling efforts. We also sell some of our
products indirectly via third-party distributors. In
fiscal 2011, our direct sales represented 78% of net sales, with the remainder of net sales provided by sales to third-party distributors and independent manufacturer representatives.

We
maintain distribution centers around the world. Products are generally delivered to these distribution centers by our manufacturing facilities and then subsequently delivered to the
customer. In some instances, product is delivered directly from our manufacturing facility to the customer. We contract with a wide range of transport providers to deliver our products via road, rail,
sea, and air.

Seasonality and Backlog

Customer orders typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon business conditions and because unfilled orders may be canceled
prior to shipment of goods. We experience a slight seasonal pattern to our business. The third fiscal quarter is typically the strongest quarter of our fiscal year, while the first fiscal quarter is
negatively affected by winter holidays and the fourth fiscal quarter is negatively affected by European holidays. The second fiscal quarter may also be affected by adverse winter weather conditions in
certain of our end markets.









Backlog
by reportable segment at fiscal year end 2011 and 2010 was as follows:

Fiscal20112010(in millions)Transportation Solutions$1,041$873Communications and Industrial Solutions1,1401,304Network Solutions780789Total$2,961$2,966

We expect that the majority of our backlog at September 30, 2011 will be filled during fiscal 2012.

Competition

The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and we compete with thousands of companies that range from large
multinational corporations to local manufacturers. Competition is generally on the basis of breadth of product offering, product innovation, price, quality, delivery, and service. Our markets have
generally been growing but with downward pressure on prices.

•Transportation Solutions.This segment competes against
numerous companies, including Delphi Automotive, Molex, Amphenol, FCI, Yazaki, Sumitomo, Carlisle Interconnect Technologies, Esterline, Glenair, and HellermannTyton.•Communications and Industrial Solutions.This segment
competes against numerous companies, including Molex, JST Connectors, Japan Aviation Electronics, Amphenol, FCI, 3M, and Foxconn Technology Group.•Network Solutions.This segment's major competitors
include Corning, CommScope, 3M, Huawei Technologies, Thomas & Betts, and Hubbell. Also, the Subsea Communications business primarily competes against Alcatel-Lucent.

Intellectual Property

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing
know-how, continuing technological innovations, and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. We review third-party proprietary rights, including patents
and patent applications, as available, in an effort to develop an effective intellectual property strategy, avoid infringement of third-party proprietary rights, identify licensing opportunities, and
monitor the intellectual property claims of others.

We
own a large portfolio of patents that principally relate to electrical, optical, and electronic products. We also own a portfolio of trademarks and are a licensee of various patents
and trademarks. Patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent
protection is obtained. Trademark rights may potentially extend for longer periods of time and are dependent upon national laws and use of the trademarks.

While
we consider our patents and trademarks to be valued assets, we do not believe that our competitive position or our operations are dependent upon or would be materially impacted by
any single patent or group of related patents.

Employees

As of September 30, 2011, we employed approximately 95,000 people worldwide, of whom 29,000 were in the Americas region, 26,000
were in the Europe/Middle East/Africa region, and 40,000 were in











the
Asia-Pacific region. Of our total employees, approximately 58,000 were employed in manufacturing. Approximately 65% of our employees were based in lower-cost countries,
primarily China. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.

Government Regulation and Supervision

The import and export of products are subject to regulation by the United States and other countries. A small portion of our products,
including defense-related products, may require governmental import and export licenses, whose issuance may be influenced by geopolitical and other events. We have a trade compliance organization and
other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with such regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with domestic and foreign trade regulation could limit our ability to import
and export raw materials and finished goods into or from the relevant jurisdiction.

Environmental

Our operations are subject to numerous health, safety, and environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that have
been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. We are committed to complying with these laws and to the
protection of our employees and the environment. We maintain a global environmental, health, and safety program that includes appropriate policies and standards, staff dedicated to environmental,
health, and safety issues, periodic compliance auditing, training, and other measures. We have a program for compliance with the European Union ("EU") Restriction of Hazardous Substances and Waste
Electrical and Electronics Equipment Directives, the China Restriction of Hazardous Substances law, and similar laws.

Compliance
with these laws has in the past and may in the future increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways. For example, our costs may increase indirectly through
increased energy and product costs as producers of energy, cement, iron, steel, pulp, paper, petroleum, and other major emitters of greenhouse gases are subjected to increased or new regulation or
legislation that results in greater regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. We also have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate
environmental contamination resulting from past operations. Based upon our experience, current information, and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we will incur remedial costs in the
range of approximately $12 million to $24 million. As of September 30, 2011, we believe that the best estimate within this range is approximately $13 million. We do not
anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2012 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with laws or regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration filings, and other filings that we are required to file with the SEC, including Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") are available free of charge through our internet website atwww.te.com. Such documents are available as soon as
reasonably practicable after electronic filing or furnishing of the material with the SEC.

The
public may also read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549.
Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site
atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC,
from which investors can electronically access our SEC filings.









