10-K


y74924e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

10-K


UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

Form 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2008

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
    from          to

Commission File Number

001-34091

MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS
    INC.

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Delaware

(State of
    incorporation)

52-2230784

(IRS Employer Identification
    No.)

140 Broadway, New York, New York

(Address of principal
    executive offices)


(Zip
    Code)

(212)

813-6000

(Registrant’s telephone
    number, including area code)

SECURITIES
    REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

Title of Each Class:

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered:

Common Stock, par value $0.003 per share

NASDAQ Global Select Market

SECURITIES
    REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

(§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule

12b-2

of the
    Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
    accelerated
    filer

o

Accelerated
    filer

þ

Non-accelerated

filer

o

Smaller
    reporting
    company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock and
    non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
    as of June 30, 2008 (the last business day of the
    registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter)
    was approximately $239.7 million computed by reference to
    the last reported sale price on the NASDAQ Global Select Market
    on that date. For purposes of this calculation, affiliates are
    considered to be officers, directors and holders of 10% or more
    of the outstanding common stock of the registrant on that date.
    The registrant had 30,988,380 shares of common stock,
    1,872,115 of which were held by affiliates, and
    2,585,654 shares of non-voting common stock outstanding on
    that date.

At February 26, 2009, the aggregate number of shares of the
    registrant’s common stock and non-voting common stock
    outstanding was 34,265,652.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for
    the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by
    reference into Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III
    of this

Form 10-K.

MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.


FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS

ii


PART I

Forward-Looking
    Statements

This report contains certain “forward-looking
    statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be
    identified by words such as “expects,”
    “intends,” “anticipates,” “plans,”
    “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,”
    “will,” or words of similar meaning and include, but
    are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for our
    future business and financial performance. Forward-looking
    statements are based on management’s current expectations
    and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties,
    risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to
    predict. It is routine for our internal projections and
    expectations to change as the year or each quarter in the year
    progresses, and therefore it should be clearly understood that
    the internal projections and beliefs upon which we base our
    expectations may change prior to the end of each quarter or the
    year. Although these expectations may change, we are under no
    obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements
    contained in this report. Our company policy is generally to
    provide our expectations only once per quarter, and not to
    update that information until the next quarter. Actual future
    events or results may differ, perhaps materially, from those
    contained in the projections or forward-looking statements.
    Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences
    include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report,
    particularly in Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

Item 1.

Business.

MarketAxess operates one of the leading platforms for the
    electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of
    fixed-income securities. Through our platform, 649 active
    institutional investor client firms (firms that executed at
    least one trade in U.S. or European fixed-income securities
    through our electronic trading platform between January 2008 and
    December 2008) can access the aggregate liquidity provided
    by the collective interest of our 48 broker-dealer clients in
    buying or selling bonds through our platform. Our active
    institutional investor clients include investment advisers,
    mutual funds, insurance companies, public and private pension
    funds, bank portfolios and hedge funds. Our
    DealerAxess

®

trading service allows dealers to trade fixed-income securities
    and credit default swaps with each other on our platform.
    Through our Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

service, we provide fixed-income market data, analytics and
    compliance tools that help our clients make trading decisions.
    We provide FIX (Financial Information eXchange) message
    management tools, connectivity solutions and ancillary
    technology services that facilitate the electronic communication
    of order information between trading counterparties.

Our multi-dealer request for quote (“RFQ”) trading
    platform allows our institutional investor clients to
    simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from
    our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the
    broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to
    respond. We offer our broker-dealer clients a solution that
    enables them to efficiently reach our institutional investor
    clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. In addition
    to U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European high-grade
    corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, including both
    investment-grade and non-investment grade debt, we also offer
    our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield bonds,
    agency bonds and credit default swaps (“CDS”).

The majority of our revenues are derived from monthly
    distribution fees and commissions for trades executed on our
    platform that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a
    monthly basis. We also derive revenues from technology products
    and services, information and user access fees, investment
    income and other income. Our expenses consist of employee
    compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization,
    technology and communication expenses, professional and
    consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising and
    general and administrative expenses.

Traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with
    product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between
    two or more parties. This traditional process has a number of
    shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central
    trading facility for these securities, which creates difficulty
    matching buyers and sellers for particular issues. In recent
    years, an increasing number of corporate bond trading
    participants have utilized

e-mail

and
    other electronic means of communication for trading corporate
    bonds. While this has addressed some of the shortcomings
    associated with traditional corporate bond trading, we believe
    that the process is still hindered by



limited liquidity, limited price transparency, significant
    transaction costs, compliance and regulatory challenges, and
    difficulty in executing numerous trades at one time.

Through our disclosed multi-dealer RFQ platform, our
    institutional investor clients can determine prices available
    for a security, a process called price discovery, as well as
    trade securities directly with our broker-dealer clients. The
    price discovery process includes the ability to view indicative
    prices from the broker-dealer clients’ inventory available
    on our platform, access to real-time pricing information and
    analytical tools (including

spread-to-Treasury

data, search capabilities and independent third-party credit
    research) available on our Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

service and the ability to request executable bids and offers
    simultaneously from up to 36 of our broker-dealer clients during
    the trade process. On average, institutional investor clients
    receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in
    response to trade inquiries. However, some trade inquiries may
    not receive any bids or offers. Our services relating to trade
    execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list
    trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on
    multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the
    ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to
    sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be
    executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price
    differential of the bonds. Once a trade is completed on our
    platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor
    client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated
    post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of
    trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our
    institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. Typically, we
    are not a party to the trades that occur on our platform between
    institutional investor clients and broker-dealer clients;
    rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and
    institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price
    and then transact with each other. However, we do execute
    certain bond transactions between and among institutional
    investor and broker-dealer clients on a riskless principal basis
    by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in
    matching

back-to-back

trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing
    organization.

Our
    DealerAxess

®

anonymous cross-matching service, which we introduced in June
    2006, allows our broker-dealer clients to transact
    U.S. corporate and emerging markets bond and CDS trades on
    our platform with other broker-dealer clients. Our broker-dealer
    clients can execute these trades in a more efficient manner and
    at lower transaction costs than in the traditional
    voice-brokered inter-dealer market. Although
    DealerAxess

®

is a completely segregated trading platform, it shares the same
    core technology as our

client-to-dealer

platform. MarketAxess Corporation, our U.S. subsidiary,
    acts as intermediary on a riskless principal basis in bond
    transactions between broker-dealer clients by serving as
    counterparty to the two broker-dealer clients involved. CDS
    transactions are conducted on the
    DealerAxess

®

platform on a name

give-up

basis and are directly settled between the two trading
    counterparties.

Our client base includes 48 broker-dealers, including the
    majority of the leading broker dealers in global fixed-income
    trading, and 649 active institutional investor firms. Our
    broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97% of the
    underwriting of newly-issued U.S. high-grade corporate
    bonds and approximately 68% of the underwriting of newly issued
    European high-grade corporate bonds in 2008. We believe these
    broker-dealers also represent the principal source of secondary
    market liquidity in the other markets in which we operate.
    Secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of market
    participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in large
    volume subsequent to the original issuance of the security,
    without substantially affecting the price of the security. Our
    broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income securities by
    traditional means including telephone,

e-mail

and
    proprietary single-dealer systems in addition to our electronic
    trading platform and we expect them to continue to do so in the
    future. We believe that these traditional means of trading
    remain the manner in which the majority of bonds are traded
    between institutional investors and broker-dealers. Our volume
    in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds represented
    approximately 6.6% of the total U.S. high-grade corporate
    bond volume, excluding convertible bonds, for 2008 as reported
    by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
    (“FINRA”) Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine
    (“TRACE”), which includes inter-dealer and retail
    trading as well as trading between institutional investors and
    broker-dealers. We have not identified a reliable source of data
    relating to the size of the other markets we serve and therefore
    we are unable to accurately determine the total volume of
    secondary trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading
    conducted on our platform.



Industry
    Background

Fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments
    and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate
    of return. As of September 30, 2008 there were
    approximately $33.2 trillion of fixed-income securities
    outstanding in the U.S. market, including $6.1 trillion of
    U.S. corporate bonds. We are primarily active in six
    segments of the credit markets within the global fixed-income
    securities market: U.S. high-grade corporate bonds;
    European high-grade corporate bonds; emerging markets bonds;
    crossover and high-yield bonds; agency bonds; and CDS.

The past 18 months has been a period of significant turmoil
    in the U.S. and European credit markets, especially in
    short-term funding and floating rate note instruments. A
    widespread retrenchment in the credit markets resulted in
    increased credit spreads and significantly higher credit spread
    volatility across a wide range of asset classes. Credit yield
    spreads in U.S. corporate bonds, as measured by the Credit
    Suisse Liquid U.S. Corporate Index (“LUCI”),
    increased from 1.0% over U.S Treasuries in June 2007 to 5.3% in
    December 2008. Credit spread volatility in U.S. corporate
    bonds, as measured by the LUCI Index, increased from 0.7% in
    June 2007 to 11.7% in December 2008. The average daily trading
    volume of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds for the year
    ended December 31, 2008, as measured by TRACE, decreased by
    9.0% compared to 2007. We believe the resultant lack of
    liquidity in the credit markets led institutional investors to
    reduce overall bond trading activity and conduct a higher
    percentage of their trades directly with their broker-dealer
    counterparties via the telephone, resulting in lower volumes on
    our platform. We also believe that a stabilization of credit
    market conditions, at higher overall levels of credit spreads,
    is likely to favorably impact the volume of trades conducted
    over our platform.

U.S.
    High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The total amount of U.S. corporate bonds outstanding has
    grown from $3.0 trillion as of December 31, 1999 to $6.1
    trillion as of September 30, 2008. The average daily
    trading volume of U.S. corporate bonds (investment grade
    and high yield), as measured by TRACE, has decreased from
    approximately $17.9 billion in 2002 (the first calendar
    year for which such data are available) to $12.1 billion in
    2008. We believe that this decline in average daily trading
    volumes is due to cyclical credit market conditions, including
    the recent turmoil in the credit markets.

The U.S. corporate bond market consists of three broad
    categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called
    “high-grade”), which typically refers to debt rated
    BBB- or better by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 or
    better by Moody’s Investor Service; debt rated below
    investment-grade (so-called “high-yield”), which
    typically refers to debt rated lower than BBB- by
    Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s
    Investor Service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called
    “convertible debt”).

The U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents
    the largest subset of the U.S. corporate bond market, has
    undergone significant change over the last decade, which has
    been driven by a number of factors, including:

•

Improved price transparency

— In 2002, FINRA
    adopted TRACE reporting, which requires FINRA members to report
    secondary market transactions in certain fixed-income securities
    to FINRA. Since February 2005, the list of TRACE-eligible bonds
    has included 23,000 unique securities, representing 99% of the
    daily trading volume of high-grade bonds.

•

Introduction of electronic trading platforms

—
    Electronic trading platforms act as central facilities to bring
    together buyers and sellers. The actions of participants on
    these platforms are facilitated by an electronic medium that
    improves some of the manual processes that might otherwise be
    required, such as searching for securities with specific
    characteristics, the coordination of multiple bilateral
    telephone calls or electronic communications, the sorting and
    analysis of competing bids or offers, and the entry of orders
    into the trading system after verbal or

e-mail

trade
    agreement. As a result, these platforms typically provide a
    lower-cost and more efficient means of enhanced distribution and
    trade execution than previously possible.

•

Introduction of credit derivatives

— Credit
    derivatives can provide increased flexibility and liquidity for
    investors and lenders to diversify their credit exposures. The
    notional amount of outstanding CDS transactions grew rapidly
    between 2002 and 2007. According to the International Swaps and
    Derivatives Association, Inc. (“ISDA”), the total
    notional amount of CDS outstanding grew rapidly from
    approximately



$2.2 trillion at December 31, 2002 to approximately $62.2
    trillion at December 31, 2007. However, during 2008, growth
    in the CDS market stagnated due to concern over the risks
    associated with these products, in particular the counterparty
    credit risks. As a result, the notional amount outstanding
    declined in the first half of the year to $54.6 trillion as of
    June 30, 2008.

•

Growth in the total amount of debt
    outstanding

— The total size of the
    U.S. high-grade corporate bond market has increased
    significantly since 1998, when approximately $611 billion
    gross amount of new bonds were issued. By 2007, the amount of
    gross corporate issuance had grown to $1,128 billion, as
    illustrated in the chart below. During 2008, high-grade
    corporate bond issuance declined to $706 billion as risk
    aversion among corporate bond investors limited the ability of
    corporate bond issuers across a wide range of industries, in
    particular the financial services industry, to issue new
    corporate bonds.

European
    High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The European high-grade corporate bond market consists of a
    broad range of products, issuers and currencies. We define the
    European high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist
    of bonds intended to be distributed to European investors,
    primarily bonds issued by European corporations, excluding bonds
    that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging
    markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade
    in Europe. Examples include:

•

bonds issued by European corporations, denominated in any
    currency;

•

bonds generally denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or
    Pounds Sterling, excluding bonds that are issued by a
    corporation domiciled in an emerging market;

•

bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that
    include a number of central banks or government financial
    authorities, such as the World Bank), agencies and governments
    located in Europe, generally denominated in Euros,
    U.S. dollars or Pounds Sterling, provided that such
    currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was
    issued; and

•

floating-rate notes issued by European corporations.

We believe that the European high-grade corporate bond market is
    impacted by many of the same factors as the U.S. high-grade
    corporate bond market. In addition, we believe the following
    factors are unique to the European high-grade corporate bond
    market:

•

Adoption of the Euro

— The adoption of the Euro
    as the common currency in most European Union countries has
    reduced the importance of currency as an investment selection
    criterion and elevated the



importance of the credit risk of particular issuers. As a
    result, institutional investors have exhibited a greater
    interest in investing in a broader range of bonds issued by
    entities domiciled outside of their home countries.

•

Regulatory environment

— Certain European Union
    countries have eased restrictions that required institutional
    investors to invest primarily in domestic securities. This has
    provided European institutional investors with increased
    flexibility to invest in securities issued by entities domiciled
    in other countries within the European Union. On
    November 1, 2007, the Markets in Financial Instruments
    Directive (“MiFID”) came into effect. MiFID is
    designed to further harmonize the financial markets of the
    member states of the European Union and introduces new pre- and
    post-trade transparency requirements.

•

Common liquidity pool

— The larger capital pool
    created by the common currency and changes in the regulatory
    environment have facilitated bond issuance by European
    corporations.

Emerging
    Markets Bond Market

We define the emerging markets bond market generally to include
    U.S. dollar, Euro or local currency denominated bonds
    issued by sovereign entities or corporations domiciled in a
    developing country. These issuers are typically located in Latin
    America, Asia, or Central and Eastern Europe. Examples of
    countries we classify as emerging markets include: Brazil,
    Colombia, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, Russia, Turkey and
    Venezuela.

The institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds
    includes many crossover investors from the high-yield and
    high-grade investment areas. Institutional investors have been
    drawn to emerging markets bonds by their high returns and high
    growth potential. Demand for emerging markets bonds declined
    significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 as the turmoil in
    the credit markets and the world-wide recession impacted the
    emerging markets. As a result, emerging markets bond prices fell
    steeply, with the JPMorgan emerging markets sovereign external
    debt and corporate bond indices down 10.9% and 16.2%,
    respectively, during 2008.

Crossover
    and High-Yield Bond Market

We define the high-yield bond market generally to include all
    debt rated lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s
    or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service. We define the
    crossover market to include any debt issue rated below
    investment grade by one agency but investment grade by the
    other. The total amount of high-yield corporate bonds yearly
    issuance has grown from $130.9 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2003 to approximately $136.3 billion for
    the year ended December 31, 2007. During 2008, high-yield
    corporate bond issuance declined to $52.2 billion primarily
    due to the risk aversion among corporate bond investors that
    severely limited the ability of high-yield issuers to raise new
    debt.

FINRA began publicly disseminating real-time price information
    on approximately 12,000 high-yield corporate bond issues in
    2005. Trades in bonds rated BB and lower are subject to
    immediate dissemination if the trade size is less than
    $1 million, or greater than $1 million and trades an
    average of once or more a day. The disseminated set was expanded
    on February 1, 2005 to include reporting of certain
    transactions on a delayed basis. The average daily trading
    volume of high-yield bonds reported by FINRA for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 was $4.0 billion.

Agency
    Bond Market

We define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a
    U.S. government-sponsored enterprise. Some prominent
    issuers of agency bonds are the Federal National Mortgage
    Association (“Fannie Mae”) and Federal Home Loan
    Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”). The total amount
    of U.S. agency bonds outstanding has grown from $1.9
    trillion as of December 31, 2000 to $3.2 trillion as of
    September 30, 2008. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York
    reported average daily trading volume in federal agency and
    government sponsored enterprise coupon securities (excluding
    mortgage-backed securities) for 2008 of $19.9 billion.

Credit
    Default Swap Market

Credit default swaps are contracts on an underlying asset that
    transfer risk and return from one party to another without
    transferring ownership of the underlying asset, allowing market
    participants to obtain credit protection or



assume credit exposure associated with a broad range of issuers
    of fixed-income securities and other debt obligations. They are
    often designed to hedge other exposures and can be tied to
    particular events, such as a default, bankruptcy or ratings
    downgrade. CDS can provide increased flexibility and liquidity
    for investors and lenders to diversify their credit risk.
    Approximately half of the volume traded in CDS is index
    products, which give exposure to a defined basket of underlying
    CDS. The remainder is traded in single-name CDS. The trading
    volumes and notional amount outstanding in CDS transactions grew
    rapidly between 2002 and 2007. However, during 2008 growth in
    the CDS market stagnated due to concern over the risks
    associated with these products, in particular the counterparty
    credit risks. As a result, the notional amount of CDS
    outstanding decreased in the first half of 2008 from $62.2
    trillion as of December 31, 2007 to $54.6 trillion as of
    June 30, 2008. To address the counterparty credit concerns,
    structural changes have been proposed for the CDS market that
    include the creation of CDS clearing houses that will serve as
    central counterparties for CDS transactions. We believe that the
    introduction of the clearing houses is likely to result in more
    standardized contracts and greater price transparency. The total
    notional amount of outstanding CDS, is detailed in the chart
    below.

Our
    Competitive Strengths

Our electronic trading platform provides solutions to some of
    the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. The
    benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading
    cycle:

•

Pre-trade

— gathering real-time and historical
    pricing information, identifying interested buyers and sellers
    in a particular security, and obtaining research and analysis;

•

Trade

— single and multiple security trade
    execution; and

•

Post-trade

— trade detail matching, account
    allocation and automated audit trail.

We believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market
    position in electronic trading in our existing products and to
    extend our presence into new products and services by
    capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including:

Significant
    Trading Volumes with Participation by Leading Broker-Dealers and
    Institutional Investors

Our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity
    provided through the participation on our platform of 48,
    including the majority of the leading broker-dealers in global
    fixed-income trading, and 649 active institutional investor
    firms. We believe these broker-dealers represent the principal
    source of secondary market



liquidity for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European
    high-grade corporate bonds, emerging markets bonds and the other
    markets in which we operate. Our broker-dealer clients are
    motivated to continue to utilize our platform due to the
    presence on the platform of our large network of institutional
    investor clients. We believe that if we continue to grow the
    participation of our broker-dealer and institutional investor
    clients on our electronic trading platform, the benefits in
    liquidity on the platform to both broker-dealers and
    institutional investors will be amplified, further motivating
    them to use our platform. The number of our active institutional
    investor clients for the past seven years has been as follows:

Our total trading volume over the past seven years is indicated
    below:

Our volume in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds grew from
    approximately 6.4% of total U.S. high-grade corporate bond
    volume, excluding convertible bonds, in 2004 as reported by
    FINRA TRACE, which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as
    well as trading between institutional investors and
    broker-dealers, to approximately 9.4% in 2007. However,
    following the turmoil in the credit markets, our market share in
    2008 declined to approximately 6.6%. We believe the resultant
    lack of liquidity in the credit markets led institutional
    investors to reduce overall bond trading activity and conduct a
    higher percentage of their trades directly with their
    broker-dealer



counterparties via the telephone, resulting in lower volumes on
    our platform. Our approximate market share from 2004 to 2008 is
    shown in the chart below:

We have not identified a reliable source of data relating to the
    size of the other markets we serve and therefore we are unable
    to accurately determine the total volume of secondary trading of
    these bonds or the portion of such trading conducted on our
    platform.

Because FINRA TRACE began identifying inter-dealer as opposed to

client-to-dealer

trades in November 2008, we will be able to identify the portion
    of

client-to-dealer

trading conducted on our platform in future periods.

Execution
    Benefits to Clients

Benefits
    to Institutional Investor Clients

We believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional
    investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods,
    including:

Competitive Prices.

By enabling institutional
    investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our
    broker-dealer clients, we believe our electronic trading
    platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer
    clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional
    investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive
    price. For typical MarketAxess multi-dealer corporate bond
    inquiries prior to 2008, the range of competitive

spread-to-Treasury

responses was, on average, approximately 10 basis points (a
    basis point is


/


of 1% in yield), although in 2008 that range widened to
    35 basis points. As an example of the potential cost
    savings to institutional investors, a one basis point savings on
    a $1 million face amount trade of a bond with 10 years
    to maturity translates to aggregate savings of approximately
    $750.00.

Transparent Pricing on a Range of
    Securities.

The commingled multi-dealer inventory
    of bonds posted by our broker-dealer clients on our platform
    consists of a daily average of more than $80 billion in
    indicative bids and offers. Subject to applicable regulatory
    requirements, institutional investors can search bonds in
    inventory based on any combination of issuer, issue, rating,
    maturity,

spread-to-Treasury,

size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time
    it takes to do so manually. Institutional investor clients can
    also request executable bids and offers on our electronic
    trading platform on any debt security in a database of
    U.S. and European corporate bonds, although there can be no
    assurance as to the number of broker-dealers who will choose to
    provide an executable price. Our platform transmits bid and
    offer requests in real-time to broker-dealer clients, who may
    respond with executable prices within a time period specified by
    the institutional investor. Institutional investors may also
    elect to display live requests for bids or offers anonymously to
    all other users of our electronic trading platform, in order to



create broader visibility of their inquiry among market
    participants and increase the likelihood that the request
    results in a trade. We believe that broader participation in
    client inquiries will result in more trade matches and lower
    transaction costs.

Improved Cost Efficiency.

We believe that we
    provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor
    required to conduct broad product and price discovery.
    Single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists)
    inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple
    broker-dealers. In addition, our Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

eliminates the need for manually-intensive phone calls or

e-mail

communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning
    historical transaction prices.

Benefits
    to Broker-Dealer Clients

We also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer
    clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including:

Greater Sales Efficiency.

We offer our
    broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with their
    institutional investor clients. Through this connectivity, our
    broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their
    indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. We
    also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by
    participating in transactions to which they otherwise may not
    have had access. In addition, the ability to post prices and
    electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond
    sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their
    efforts on more profitable activities, such as higher
    value-added trades and more complex transactions.

More Efficient Inventory Management.

The
    posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to inquiries
    from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates an
    increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand for
    their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. As a
    result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory
    turnover, which may limit credit exposure.

Benefits
    to Both Institutional Investor and Broker-Dealer
    Clients

We offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income
    trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor
    and broker-dealer clients, including:

Greater Trading Accuracy.

Our electronic
    trading platform includes verification mechanisms at various
    stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy
    in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between
    institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. These
    verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending
    accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to
    verify they are trading the correct bond, at the

agreed-upon

price and size. Our platform assists our institutional investor
    clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the
    portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to
    back-office personnel. This automation provides more timely
    execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can
    result from information being manually entered into different
    systems.

Efficient Risk Monitoring and
    Compliance.

Institutional investors and their
    regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that best
    execution is achieved for fixed-income trades. Our electronic
    trading platform offers both institutional investors and
    broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the
    trading cycle. This enables compliance personnel to review
    information relating to trades more easily and with greater
    reliability. Trade information including time, price and

spread-to-Treasury

is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading
    platform. These data represent a valuable source of information
    for our clients’ compliance personnel. Importantly, we
    believe the automated audit trail, together with the competitive
    pricing that is a feature of our electronic trading platform,
    gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate that they have
    achieved best execution on behalf of their clients.



Other
    Service Offerings

In addition to services directly related to the execution of
    trades, we offer our clients several other services, including:

Information Services.

The information and
    analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make
    investment and trading decisions. Our Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

provides access to real-time and historical price, yield and
    MarketAxess estimated

spread-to-Treasuries

for publicly disseminated FINRA TRACE-eligible bonds. Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

combines publicly-available TRACE data with the prices for
    trades executed on our U.S. high-grade electronic trading
    platform, integrating the two data sources and providing
    real-time TRACE data with associated analytical tools that are
    not otherwise available. Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

provides

end-of-day

CDS pricing data combined with CDS analytics and screening tools
    that incorporate cash bond and equity market data. In November
    2008, we introduced an alliance with Markit Group Limited
    (“Markit”) enabling institutional investors to use
    Markit Quotes within the MarketAxess data and trading system to
    observe indicative CDS and corporate bond prices. In addition,
    Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

provides indicative prices for secondary loans, through
    arrangements with certain of our broker-dealer clients, and
    independent third-party credit research. Our electronic trading
    platform allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use
    information to discover investment opportunities that might have
    been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual
    information gathering process or other electronic services.

In November 2006, we added a comprehensive set of reports
    designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for
    institutional investor clients. It utilizes extensive TRACE
    information and has a flexible interface to run and save reports
    in a variety of formats for both compliance and management
    reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a
    view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic
    trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value
    of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows
    clients to monitor performance against their own best execution
    policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of
    each inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

Straight-Through Processing.

Straight-through
    processing (“STP”) refers to the integration of
    systems and processes to automate the trade process from

end-to-end —

trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without
    the need for manual intervention. Our electronic trading
    platform provides broker-dealers and institutional investors
    with the ability to automate portions of their transaction
    processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency.
    Through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit
    inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of execution from
    us, in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant
    trade details. Institutional investors can download trade
    messages, allocate trades to

sub-accounts

on whose behalf the trades were made and send the allocations to
    broker-dealers for confirmation.

Technology Products and Services.

In addition
    to our trading platform, we provide a suite of technology
    products. In November 2007, we formed a new subsidiary,
    MarketAxess Technologies Inc., which acquired certain assets of
    Trade West Systems, LLC (“TWS”). TWS is an Utah-based
    financial software and technology services provider focused on
    providing gateway adapters for connecting order management
    systems and trading systems to fixed-income trading venues. In
    March 2008, we acquired Greenline Financial Technologies, Inc.
    (“Greenline”), an Illinois-based provider of
    integration, testing and management solutions for FIX-related
    products and services designed to optimize the electronic
    trading of fixed-income, equity and other exchange-based
    products.

Robust,
    Scalable Technology

We have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure,
    fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current
    operations, as well as for substantial growth. Our highly
    scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume,
    products and clients with relatively little modification and low
    incremental costs.

Proven
    Innovator with an Experienced Management Team

Since our inception, we have been an innovator in the
    fixed-income securities markets. Our management team is
    comprised of executives with an average of more than
    20 years’ experience in the securities industry. We
    have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets
    we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of



fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships
    between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients,
    while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional
    trading methods. In 2008,

Credit

magazine recognized
    MarketAxess as “Best Multi-Dealer Credit Default Swaps
    Trading Platform” for the second consecutive year,
    “Best Multi-Dealer Corporate Bond Trading Platform”
    for the fourth consecutive year and “Best Market
    Innovation” in the U.S. We were recognized as the
    “Best Multi-Dealer Credit Default Swaps Trading
    Platform” in 2008 in Europe.

Some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading
    include:

•

the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for
    U.S. high-grade corporate bonds;

•

the first electronic Treasury benchmarking for
    U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades;

•

Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

,

    our information services product, combining FINRA TRACE bond
    data with MarketAxess data and analytical tools;

•

bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading,
    enabling institutional investors to request executable prices
    for multiple securities simultaneously;

•

the first disclosed client to multi-dealer trading platform for
    CDS indices;

•

DealerAxess

®

,

    an innovative

dealer-to-dealer

electronic trading platform for U.S. high-grade corporate
    bonds, emerging market bonds and CDS; and

•

public Market Lists for corporate bonds, giving institutional
    investors the ability to display their bid and offer lists
    anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community.

Our
    Strategy

Our objective is to provide the leading global electronic
    trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting
    broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and
    efficiently, while offering a broad array of information,
    trading and technology services to market participants across
    the trading cycle. The key elements of our strategy are:

Enhance
    the Liquidity of Securities Traded on Our Platform and Broaden
    Our Client Base in Our Existing Markets

We intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded
    on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income
    platform. Our ability to innovate and efficiently add new
    functionality and product offerings to the MarketAxess platform
    will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients,
    as well as expand our client base, which we believe will in turn
    lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the
    securities provided by our broker-dealer clients and available
    on our platform. We will seek to increase the number of active
    European institutional investor clients using our
    U.S. electronic trading platform, subject to regulatory
    requirements.

Leverage
    our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into
    New Sectors of the

Fixed-Income

Securities Market

We intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong
    broker-dealer and institutional investor relationships, to
    deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product
    segments within the fixed-income securities markets and deliver
    fixed-income securities-related technical services and products.
    As an example, in 2005 and 2006, respectively, we introduced CDS
    index trading and CDS single-name trading on our platform. Due
    in part to our highly scalable systems, we believe we will be
    able to enter new markets efficiently.

Leverage
    our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into
    New Client Segments

We intend to leverage our technology and client relationships to
    deploy our electronic trading platform into new client segments.
    As an example, in June 2006 we introduced our
    DealerAxess

®

service, which allows our broker-dealer clients to transact
    U.S. corporate bond, emerging markets bond and CDS trades
    on our platform with



other broker-dealer clients and, in 2008, we expanded the base
    of broker-dealers on our platform to include both regional and
    diversity dealers.

Continue
    to Strengthen and Expand our Trade-Related Service
    Offerings

We plan to continue building our existing service offerings so
    that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated
    into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients. We also plan to continue to add functionality
    to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully
    automated,

end-to-end

straight-through processing solution (automation from trade
    initiation to settlement). We are continually considering the
    introduction of new trading techniques. As an example, in the
    fourth quarter of 2008, we introduced public Market Lists for
    corporate bonds that give institutional investors the ability to
    display live requests for bids and offers anonymously to the
    entire MarketAxess trading community.

Expand
    our Data and Information Services Offerings

We regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to
    Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

in order to improve the value of the information we provide to
    our clients. In November 2006, we introduced compliance
    reporting tools for our institutional investor clients that
    assist them in monitoring best execution requirements for
    fixed-income trades. In November 2008, we introduced an alliance
    with Markit enabling institutional investors to use Markit
    Quotes. In December 2008, we announced an agreement with
    Investment Technology Group (“ITG”) to provide
    integrated access to our fixed-income compliance suite and to
    ITG’s equities transaction cost analysis product. We intend
    to continue to widen the user base of our data products and to
    continue adding new content and analytical capabilities. As the
    use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow, we
    believe that the amount and value of our proprietary trading
    data will also increase, further enhancing the value of our
    information services offerings to our clients.

Expand
    our Technology Services Offerings

We intend to leverage our technology expertise and our client
    relationships to provide technology solutions to our clients
    that enhance their electronic trading capabilities and
    facilitate the electronic communication of order information
    with their trading counterparties. In November 2007, we acquired
    TWS, a financial software and technology services provider
    focused on providing gateway adapters for connecting order
    management systems and trading systems to fixed-income trading
    venues. In March 2008, we acquired Greenline, an Illinois-based
    provider of integration, testing and management solutions for
    FIX-related products and services.

Pursue
    Strategic Alliances and Select Acquisitions

We plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal
    growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring
    businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new
    markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance
    the value of our platform to our clients. Examples of this are
    our alliances with Markit and ITG and our acquisitions of TWS
    and Greenline.

MarketAxess
    Electronic Trading Platform

Client-to-Dealer

Markets

U.S.
    High-Grade Corporate Bonds

Our U.S. high-grade corporate bond business consists of
    U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by
    corporations for distribution in the U.S. Both domestic and
    foreign institutional investors have access to
    U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic
    trading platform. We use the terms high-grade debt and
    investment-grade debt interchangeably in this annual report on

Form 10-K.

Our 2008 trading volume in the U.S. high-grade corporate
    bond market was $134.6 billion.

In the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, 36
    broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 17 of the top 20
    broker-dealers as ranked by 2008 investment grade new-issue
    underwriting volume. We added 19 regional and diversity dealers
    during 2008 but lost two dealers through bankruptcy and
    consolidation in the broker-dealer



community. Our broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately
    97% of the underwriting of newly-issued U.S. high-grade
    corporate bonds in 2008. We offer our institutional investor
    clients access to a broad inventory of U.S. high-grade
    corporate bonds, which is provided and updated daily by our
    broker-dealer clients. Our electronic trading platform is a
    multi-dealer disclosed counterparty model, which allows
    institutional investors to view bids and offers from one or more
    of our broker-dealer clients while permitting each party to know
    the identity of its counter-party throughout the trading
    process. By disclosing the counterparties, the inquiry system on
    which our trading platform is based combines the strength of
    existing offline client/dealer relationships with the efficiency
    and transparency of an electronic trading platform. This enables
    institutional investors to instantly direct trade inquiries and
    negotiations to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the
    overwhelming majority of the world’s leading broker-dealers
    who provide liquidity in these securities. Through our Market
    List functionality, we also offer institutional investors the
    ability to display their live requests for bids and offers lists
    anonymously to the entire MarketAxess trading community as a
    means of creating broader visibility of their inquiry among
    market participants and increasing the likelihood that the
    request results in a trade. Institutional investors have access
    to the commingled inventory of our broker-dealer clients,
    representing indicative bids and offers. Each line item of
    inventory represents an indicative bid

and/or

offer
    on a particular bond issue by a particular broker-dealer client.
    Institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading
    only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of the trades
    conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. To
    transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory,
    institutional investors can easily search our database and
    submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can
    respond with live, executable prices. While, on average,
    institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers
    from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some
    inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

Eurobonds

MarketAxess Europe Limited, our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary,
    commenced trading operations in August 2001. MarketAxess Europe
    Limited received Financial Services Authority (“FSA”)
    regulatory approval and began to offer European secondary
    trading functionality in U.S. dollar- and Euro-denominated
    European corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients in September 2001. In 2003, we added trading in
    other European high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds
    issued in Pounds Sterling and floating rate notes. In 2008, we
    introduced trading in European government bonds. As on our
    U.S. electronic trading platform, all trading on our
    European platform is done using a multi-dealer disclosed
    counterparty model. We offered the first platform in Europe with
    this capability for corporate bonds.

In the Eurobond credit market, defined as including European
    high-grade, high yield and government bonds, 18 broker-dealers
    utilize our platform, including 17 of the top 20 broker-dealers
    as ranked by 2008 European investment grade new-issue
    underwriting volume. On a typical day, institutional investors
    on our European corporate bond trading platform have access to
    10,000 line items of commingled inventory, representing an
    aggregate of approximately $36 billion of indicative bids
    and offers. In a single inquiry, institutional investors can
    request bids or offers from up to six of the broker-dealers who
    participate on the European platform. While many of the trades
    conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory,
    institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading
    only the bonds posted as inventory. To transact in a specific
    bond that does not appear in inventory, institutional investors
    can easily search our database and submit an online inquiry to
    their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with live,
    executable prices. While, on average, institutional investor
    clients receive several bids or offers from broker-dealers in
    response to trade inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any
    bids or offers. Our 2008 trading volume in the Eurobond market
    was $35.8 billion and principally related to trading in
    European high-grade corporate bonds.

Emerging
    Markets Bonds

Twenty-three of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our
    platform to trade emerging markets bonds. 248 active
    institutional investor clients (firms that executed at least one
    trade through our electronic trading platform between January
    2008 and December 2008) utilize our electronic trading
    platform to trade emerging markets bonds. These institutional
    investor clients are located in both the U.S. and Europe.
    The emerging markets countries whose bonds were most frequently
    traded on our platform in 2008 were Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela,
    Russia and Argentina.



In December 2007, we introduced local markets emerging market
    debt trading, which allows our institutional investor clients to
    transact Euroclear-eligible local currency denominated bonds
    issued by sovereign entities or corporations in countries that
    include Mexico, Brazil and Argentina.

Crossover
    and High-Yield Bonds

Thirty of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform
    to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. Trading in crossover
    and high-yield bonds uses many of the same features available in
    our U.S. high-grade corporate bond offering.

Agency
    Bonds

Seventeen of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our
    platform to trade agency bonds. Trading in agency bonds uses
    many of the same features available in our U.S. high-grade
    corporate bond offering.

Credit
    Default Swaps

We launched CDS index trading on our platform in September 2005
    and added the capacity to trade lists of single-name CDS in
    November 2006. In addition to the trading features, the index
    trading platform also offers STP connectivity for dealers and
    institutional investor clients. Six of our
    U.S. broker-dealer clients are live on our platform to
    trade CDS investment grade indices, nine for emerging market CDS
    indices and single-name lists and six for European credit CDS
    indices. In November 2008 we introduced an alliance with Markit
    enabling institutional investors to use Markit Quotes within the
    MarketAxess data and trading system to observe indicative CDS
    and corporate bond prices. Institutional investors can launch
    MarketAxess trade inquiries directly from Markit Quotes.

Dealer-to-Dealer

Markets

Emerging
    Markets Bonds

Ten of our broker-dealer clients use our
    DealerAxess

®

platform to trade emerging markets bonds with each other. The
    platform is primarily utilized for transactions in U.S
    dollar-denominated bonds issued by Latin American governments.
    DealerAxess

®

provides live inter-dealer markets utilizing proprietary
    cross-matching technology. Although
    DealerAxess

®

is a completely segregated trading platform, it uses the same
    core technology as our

client-to-dealer

platform. The platform provides a documented record of orders
    and executed trades with reporting that enables broker-dealer
    clients to track, analyze and evaluate their inter-dealer
    trading. Straight-through processing is available to reduce
    manual tasks and lower the number of errors. Bond trades on
    DealerAxess

®

are conducted with MarketAxess as riskless principal. Trades are
    cleared and settled by an independent clearing broker.

Credit
    Default Swaps

We launched CDS single-name trading for U.S. high-grade and
    index and single-name trading for emerging markets on our
    platform in May 2007. Ten of our U.S. broker-dealer clients
    are live on our platform to trade U.S. high-grade
    single-name CDS and 10 of our U.S. broker-dealer clients
    are live on our platform to trade emerging markets index and
    single-name CDS. CDS transactions are conducted on the
    DealerAxess

®

platform on a name

give-up

basis and are directly settled between the two trading
    counterparties.

U.S.
    High-Grade Corporate Bonds

Our
    DealerAxess

®

platform has not been used for U.S. high-grade corporate
    bond trades since the second quarter of 2008. The majority of
    inter-dealer trading in U.S. high grade corporate bonds is
    currently conducted by telephone through voice brokers.



Key
    Trading Functionalities

We currently offer both disclosed inquiry trading on our

client-to-dealer

platform and an anonymous cross-matching style of trading on our

dealer-to-dealer

platform. Our
    DealerAxess

®

dealer-to-dealer

trading platform provides anonymous live markets with executable
    bids and offers posted by participating dealers that are matched
    using proprietary cross-matching technology. The key trading
    functionalities on our

client-to-dealer

trading platform are detailed below.

Single
    Inquiry Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to
    request bids or offers in a single inquiry from up to 36 of our
    broker-dealer clients for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds,
    from up to six of our broker-dealer clients for European
    high-grade corporate bonds and from up to eight of our
    broker-dealer clients in emerging markets bonds. Institutional
    investors can obtain bids or offers on any security posted in
    inventory or included in the database available on our platform.

ASAP and
    Holding Bin Trading Functionalities

We provide both ASAP (“as soon as possible”) and
    Holding Bin trading protocols. In the Holding Bin trading
    protocol, institutional investor clients set the time when they
    would like all of the broker-dealers’ prices or spreads
    returned to them, in order to have the ability to see all
    executable prices available at the same time. In the ASAP
    trading protocol, institutional investor clients see each
    broker-dealer’s price or spread as soon as it is entered by
    the broker-dealer.

List
    Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to
    request bids or offers on a list of bonds, with the number of
    different bonds on each list varying between 8 and 40 items
    depending on the market. This facilitates efficient trading for
    institutional investors such as investment advisors, mutual
    funds and hedge funds. Institutional investors are able to have
    multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling
    them to manage their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and
    credit and sector exposure.

Swap
    Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to
    request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another
    bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed
    simultaneously, with payment based on the price or yield
    differential of the securities.

Market
    Lists

We offer institutional investors the ability to display live
    requests for bid and offer anonymously to the entire MarketAxess
    trading community through our Market List functionality, thereby
    creating broader visibility of their inquiry among market
    participants and increasing the likelihood that the request
    results in a trade.

Information
    and Analytical Tools

Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

provides real-time FINRA TRACE data and enhances it with
    MarketAxess trade data and analytical tools to provide
    professional market participants with a comprehensive set of
    corporate bond price information. The data include trade time
    and sales information, including execution prices, as well as
    MarketAxess-estimated

spread-to-Treasuries,

for trades disseminated by the FINRA TRACE system. The data also
    include actual execution prices and

spread-to-Treasury

levels for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades executed
    on the MarketAxess platform. Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

allows institutional investors to search for and sort bonds
    based upon specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of
    transaction, spread change, issuer or security. This search
    function allows institutional investors to compile information
    relating to potential securities trades in a fraction of the
    time that it takes to manually compile this information from
    disparate sources or other electronic databases,



including direct TRACE feeds. In addition, Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

provides independent third-party credit research as well as
    indicative prices for secondary markets in loans and CDS.

TRACE facilitates the mandatory reporting of

over-the-counter

secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income
    securities. All broker-dealers that are FINRA member firms have
    an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to TRACE
    under a set of rules approved by the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission (“SEC”). FINRA then publicly
    disseminates a portion of this data, which is available free of
    charge on a delayed basis through the FINRA website or available
    immediately for a set fee.

Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

is integrated directly into the MarketAxess electronic trading
    platform and can be seamlessly accessed, either when viewing
    securities inventory or when launching an inquiry. Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

is also available through the Internet for non-trading
    professional market participants, including, among others,
    research analysts and rating agencies, who can log in and access
    the information via an easy-to-use browser-based interface.

We provide Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

as an ancillary service to our trading clients and also to other
    industry participants. We derive revenues from our Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

service by charging for seat licenses per user at our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients, through
    distribution agreements with other information service providers
    and through bulk data sales to third parties. Seat license fees
    from institutional investor clients are waived for clients that
    transact a sufficient volume of trades through MarketAxess.

Additional analytical capabilities of our information services
    offerings aim to provide clients with more information regarding
    bond prices and market activity, including asset swap spreads,
    turnover percentage and liquidity ratios. These statistics
    measure a security’s trading activity relative to its
    amount outstanding and relative to the overall market,
    respectively, providing an additional perspective on relative
    liquidity. In addition, we provide pricing measures to help
    institutional investors better assess the relative value of a
    corporate bond, providing more consistent relative pricing
    information for institutional investors, such as offering spread
    data versus the interest rate swap curve and versus the
    U.S. Treasury curve. Users are also able to download a
    variety of MarketAxess-compiled trade reports containing a
    comprehensive review of trading activity. Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

is currently the source of corporate bond trading information
    for

The Wall Street Journal.

In November 2006, we added a comprehensive set of reports
    designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for
    institutional investor clients. It utilizes extensive TRACE
    information and has a flexible interface to run and save reports
    in a variety of formats for both compliance and management
    reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a
    view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic
    trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value
    of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows
    clients to monitor performance against their own best execution
    policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of
    each inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

In November 2007, we added

end-of-day

CDS pricing data to Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

that is provided by Credit Market Analysis Ltd.

End-of-day

screening tools combine the CDS data with market data from cash
    bonds and equities to provide relative value analysis to our
    clients.

In 2008, we launched European
    BondTicker

TM

,

    which displays market standard pricing data with MarketAxess
    enrichments. The product covers both European and Sterling
    denominated debt and provides the user with both price and
    MarketAxess-calculated spreads to benchmark government bonds.
    European
    BondTicker

TM

displays

intra-day

indicative prices for more than 2,300 issues, including
    government bonds, state-guaranteed bonds and corporate bonds.
    The market standard pricing data is comprised of high quality
    price quotes from leading financial institutions. Many of the
    same features available on Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

are also available on European
    BondTicker

TM

.

My
    Portfolio

Institutional investors are able to upload their corporate bond
    portfolio to our electronic trading platform utilizing the
    “My Portfolio” trading feature. Institutional
    investors who utilize “My Portfolio” benefit from the
    ability to automatically match inventory on our platform to
    bonds held in their portfolio, allowing them to more



efficiently launch an inquiry and transact in these securities.
    Users of this feature can also directly access Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

to obtain the trading history of the securities in their
    portfolio.

Straight-Through
    Processing

Straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems
    and processes to automate the trade process from

end-to-end —

trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without
    the need for manual intervention. There are two elements of
    straight-through processing: internal straight-through
    processing and external straight-through processing. Internal
    straight-through processing relates to the trade and settlement
    processes that are internal to an industry participant. For
    example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes
    authorization of orders, placement of orders with
    broker-dealers, receipt of execution details and allocation of
    trades. External straight-through processing refers to
    connecting seamlessly to all external counterparts in the
    trading and settlement process.

Automation by way of straight-through processing improves
    efficiency throughout the trade cycle. We provide broker-dealers
    and institutional investors with a range of tools that
    facilitate straight-through processing, including order upload,
    easy-to-use online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade
    messaging features that enable institutional investors to
    communicate electronically between front- and back-office
    systems, thereby integrating the order, portfolio management and
    accounting systems of our broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients in real time. Our straight-through processing
    tools can be customized to meet specific needs of clients. We
    continue to build industry partnerships to assist our clients in
    creating connectivity throughout the trade cycle. Through these
    partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can
    quickly be deployed within our clients’ trading operations.

Usage of our straight-through processing tools increased
    significantly during 2008. The number of investor client STP
    connections increased to 198 as of December 31, 2008 from
    134 as of December 31, 2007. In our U.S. high-grade
    corporate bond business between 2006 and 2008, the number of
    trades completed through our straight-through processing
    capabilities increased from 32,056 to 96,957. The number of
    online allocations increased from 83,501 to 100,495 between 2006
    and 2008.

Dealer
    API

We offer Application Programming Interface (“API”)
    services to our broker-dealer clients for pre-trade, trade
    negotiation and post-trade services. This allows for
    straight-through processing, which improves efficiency and
    reduces errors in processing.

Technology
    Services

In November 2007, we formed a new subsidiary company,
    MarketAxess Technologies Inc., which acquired TWS, a financial
    software and technology services company focused on providing
    gateway adapters to connect order management and trading systems
    to fixed-income trading venues.

In March 2008, we acquired Greenline, an Illinois-based provider
    of integration, testing and management solutions for FIX related
    products and services. The Financial Information eXchange (FIX)
    protocol is a messaging standard developed specifically for the
    real-time electronic exchange of securities transaction
    information. Greenline’s CertiFIX product enables firms to
    provide a reliable FIX certification environment for their
    trading counterparties. The VeriFIX product is a testing suite
    that allows firms to thoroughly test counterparty FIX
    interfaces, protocol formats and supported messages.
    Greenline’s MagniFIX product allows firms to monitor their
    enterprise-wide FIX installations on a real-time basis. In
    addition, Greenline provides strategic consulting and custom
    development for their clients.

We also provide technology consulting and customized development
    services to our clients that leverage our trading technology
    expertise and our existing technology solutions. Fees for such
    services are charged based upon the complexity and extent of the
    services provided.



Sales and
    Marketing

We promote our products and services using a variety of direct
    and indirect sales and marketing strategies. Our sales force is
    responsible for client acquisition activity and for increasing
    use of our platform by our existing clients. Their goal is to
    train and support existing and new clients on how to use the
    system and to educate them as to the benefits of utilizing an
    electronic fixed-income trading platform. We employ various
    strategies, including advertising, direct marketing, promotional
    mailings and participation in industry conferences, to increase
    awareness of our brand and our electronic trading platform. For
    example, we have worked with

The Wall Street Journal

to
    establish Corporate
    BondTicker

tm

as the source of information for its daily corporate bond and
    high-yield tables.

Competition

The electronic trading industry is highly competitive and we
    expect competition to intensify in the future. We face five main
    areas of competition:

•

Telephone

— We compete with bond trading
    business conducted over the telephone between broker-dealers and
    their institutional investor clients. Institutional investors
    have historically purchased fixed-income securities by
    telephoning bond sales professionals at one or more
    broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of
    individual bonds. This remains the manner in which the majority
    of corporate bonds are still traded between institutional
    investors and broker-dealers.

•

E-mail

—
    We compete with bond trading business conducted via

e-mail

between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients.

E-mail

provides an efficient means of initiating product and price
    discovery with a large universe of potential trading partners.

•

Other electronic trading platforms

— There are
    numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in
    existence. These include: Thomson TradeWeb, a multi-dealer to
    institutional investor trading platform that has historically
    focused on government bond trading; Bloomberg, which provides
    electronic trading functionality; and the New York Stock
    Exchange, which launched a retail corporate bond trading
    platform in April 2007. In 2002, Thomson TradeWeb launched an
    electronic corporate bond trading platform. In January 2008,
    nine dealers purchased a 15% stake in TradeWeb’s
    established markets and provided additional funding for asset
    class expansion. In addition, some broker-dealers operate
    proprietary electronic trading systems that enable institutional
    investors to trade directly with a broker-dealer over an
    electronic medium. We believe that we are currently the only
    platform primarily focused on multi-party disclosed trading of
    credit products between broker-dealers and institutional
    investors, though others have or may seek to expand their
    product offerings to compete in this market. Additionally, as we
    expand our business into new products, we will likely come into
    more direct competition with other electronic trading platforms
    or firms offering traditional services. For instance, our
    DealerAxess

®

platform competes with services offered by inter-dealer
    brokerage firms including BGC Partners L.P., Creditex (a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Intercontinental Exchange), GFI Group Inc.,
    ICAP plc and Tullet Prebon plc.

•

Market data and information vendors

— Several
    large market data and information providers currently have a
    data and analytics relationship with virtually every
    institutional firm. Some of these entities currently offer
    varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities,
    mostly on a single-dealer basis. Some of these entities have
    announced their intention to expand their electronic trading
    platforms or to develop new platforms. These entities are
    currently direct competitors to our information services
    business and may in the future become direct competitors to our
    electronic trading platform.

•

Technology vendors

— We compete with numerous
    providers of FIX message management tools and connectivity
    solutions. The market for our technology products and services
    is fragmented and includes FIX engine providers, testing,
    monitoring, certification and professional services firms and
    in-house technology and development groups at virtually every
    institutional firm.

Competitors, including companies in which some of our
    broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic
    trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore
    the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or
    will compete with us. Furthermore, our broker-dealer clients
    have made, or may in the future make investments in or enter
    into agreements with other businesses that directly or
    indirectly compete with us.



In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors,
    including:

•

broad network of broker-dealer and institutional investor
    clients using our electronic trading platform;

•

liquidity provided by the participating broker-dealers;

•

magnitude and frequency of price improvement;

•

facilitating the quality and speed of execution;

•

compliance benefits;

•

total transaction costs;

•

technology capabilities, including the reliability and ease of
    use of our electronic trading platform; and

•

range of products and services offered.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these
    factors and continue to proactively build technology solutions
    that serve the needs of the credit markets.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and
    integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor
    clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems.
    We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we
    serve in the development of our platform, working closely with
    our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs.

Our broker-dealer clients have invested in building API’s
    with us for inventory contributions, electronic trading,
    government bond benchmark pricing and post-trade messaging. We
    believe that we have successfully built deep roots with our
    broker-dealer clients, increasing our level of service to them
    while at the same time increasing their commitment to our
    services.

Furthermore, 198 of our institutional investor clients have
    built interfaces to enable them to communicate electronically
    between our platform and their order, portfolio management and
    accounting systems. We believe that this increases the reliance
    of these institutional investor clients on our services and
    creates significant competitive barriers to entry.

Technology

The design and quality of our technology are critical to our
    growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. Our
    electronic trading platform has been designed with secure,
    scalable client-server architecture that makes broad use of
    distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault
    tolerance. The platform is built on industry-standard
    technologies and has been designed to handle many multiples of
    our current trading volume.

All critical server-side components, primarily our networks,
    application servers and databases, have backup equipment running
    in the event that the main equipment fails. This offers fully
    redundant system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the
    potential for loss of transaction data in the event of an
    internal failure. We also seek to minimize the impact of
    external failures by automatically recovering connections in the
    event of a communications failure. The majority of our
    broker-dealer clients have dedicated high-speed T-1
    communication lines to our network in order to provide fast data
    transfer. Our security measures include industry-standard
    communications encryption.

We have designed our application with an easy-to-use,
    Windows-based interface. Through a secure, single sign-on, our
    clients are able to access our electronic trading platform.
    Clients are also able to execute transactions over our platform
    directly from their order management systems. We provide users
    an automatic software update feature that does not require
    manual intervention.

Intellectual
    Property

We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret
    and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect
    our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual
    property. Our software code,



elements of our electronic trading platform, Web site and other
    proprietary materials are protected by copyright laws. We
    currently have six patent applications pending, covering certain
    aspects of our business.

The written agreements upon which we rely to protect our
    proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property
    include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets.
    Examples of these written agreements include third party
    nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions
    assignment agreements, and agreements with customers,
    contractors and strategic partners. Other written agreements
    upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology,
    processes and intellectual property take many forms and contain
    provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark or trade
    secret rights.

We have obtained U.S. federal registration of the
    MarketAxess

®

name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered
    in several foreign jurisdictions. We have pending registrations
    for the
    MarketAxess

®

name and logo in several other foreign jurisdictions. In
    addition, we have obtained U.S. federal registration for
    the marks
    AutoSpotting

®

,

    BondLink

®

,

    FrontPage

®

,

    Actives

®

,

    DealerAxess

®

and associated designs and have a number of other registered
    trademarks, service marks and trademark applications. Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

is a trademark we use, but it has not been registered.

In addition to our efforts to register our intellectual
    property, we believe that factors such as the technological and
    creative skills of our personnel, new product and service
    developments, frequent enhancements and reliability with respect
    to our services are essential to establishing and maintaining a
    technology and market leadership position.

Government
    Regulation

The securities industry and financial markets in the
    U.S. and elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. As
    a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the
    U.S. and the rest of the world are charged with
    safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial
    markets and with protecting the interests of investors
    participating in those markets. Our active broker-dealer
    subsidiaries fall within the scope of their regulations.

Regulation
    of the U.S. Securities Industry and Broker-Dealers

In the U.S., the SEC is the governmental agency responsible for
    the administration of the federal securities laws. One of our
    U.S. subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation, is registered
    with the SEC as a broker-dealer. It is also a member of FINRA, a
    self-regulatory organization to which most broker-dealers
    belong. In addition, MarketAxess Corporation is a member of the
    Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides
    certain protection for clients’ accounts in the event of a
    liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such accounts
    are held by the broker-dealer.

Additionally, MarketAxess Corporation is registered with certain
    states and the District of Columbia as a broker-dealer. The
    individual states and the District of Columbia are responsible
    for the administration of their respective “blue sky”
    laws, rules and regulations.

Regulation
    of the

Non-U.S.

Securities Industries and Investment Service
    Providers

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.K., the
    European Union and elsewhere are subject to extensive
    regulation. MarketAxess Europe Limited may fall within the scope
    of those regulations depending upon the extent to which it is
    characterized as providing a regulated investment service.

Our principal regulator in the U.K. is the FSA. Our subsidiary,
    MarketAxess Europe Limited, is registered as a Multilateral
    Trading Facility (“MTF”) with the FSA.

The securities industry in the member states of the European
    Union is regulated by agencies in each member state. European
    Union measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory
    agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant
    of a single authorization for providers of investment services,
    which, in general, is valid throughout the European Union. As an
    FSA-approved MTF, MarketAxess Europe Limited receives the
    benefit of this authorization.



In May 2003, we incorporated a Canadian subsidiary, MarketAxess
    Canada Limited. It is registered as an Alternative Trading
    System under the Securities Act of Ontario and is a member of
    the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada.

Employees

As of December 31, 2008, we had 185 employees, 158 of
    whom were based in the U.S. and 27 of whom were based
    outside of the U.S., principally in the U.K. None of our
    employees is represented by a labor union. We consider our
    relationships with our employees to be good and have not
    experienced any interruptions of operations due to labor
    disagreements.

Company
    Information

Our Internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. Through our
    Internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the
    following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after
    electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC:
    our annual report on

Form 10-K;

our quarterly reports on

Form 10-Q;

our current reports on

Form 8-K;

and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our
    Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings are also available
    through our Internet website. Our Internet website and the
    information contained therein or connected thereto are not
    intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

You may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by
    writing to:

MarketAxess Holdings Inc.

140 Broadway

New York, NY 10005

Attn: Investor Relations

Our Board of Directors has standing Audit, Compensation and
    Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. Each of these
    committees has a written charter approved by our Board of
    Directors. Our Board of Directors has also adopted a set of
    Corporate Governance Guidelines. Copies of each committee
    charter, along with the Corporate Governance Guidelines, are
    also posted on our website.

You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the
    SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE,
    Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at

1-800-SEC-0330

for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains
    an Internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current
    reports, proxy and information statements and other information
    that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with
    the SEC. The SEC’s internet website is www.sec.gov.

We have obtained federal registration of the
    MarketAxess

®

name and logo, as well as for the marks
    Auto-Spotting

®

,

    BondLink

®

,

    Actives

®

,

    FrontPage

®

and
    DealerAxess

®

.

    We also have a number of other registered trademarks, service
    mark applications and trademark applications. Other trademarks
    and service marks appearing in this annual report on

Form 10-K

are the property of their respective holders.



Item 1A.

Risk
    Factors.

Risks
    Related to Our Business

We
    face substantial competition that could reduce our market share
    and harm our financial performance.

The fixed-income securities industry generally, and the
    electronic financial services markets in which we operate in
    particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to
    intensify in the future. We will continue to compete with bond
    trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their
    institutional investor clients over the telephone or
    electronically. In addition, our current and prospective
    competitors are numerous and include:

•

other multi-dealer trading companies;

•

market data and information vendors;

•

securities and futures exchanges;

•

inter-dealer brokerage firms;

•

electronic communications networks;

•

technology, software, information and media or other companies
    that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers
    or institutional investors; and

•

other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the
    securities business.

Many of our current and potential competitors are more
    established and substantially larger than we are and have
    substantially greater market presence, as well as greater
    financial, technical, marketing and other resources. These
    competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into
    market segments in which we have a leadership position today,
    potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in
    other fixed-income or equity securities. In addition, many of
    our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader
    name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. Some
    of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving
    opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we
    can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional
    activities.

Any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures
    or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by
    us. Current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a
    relatively low cost. Others may acquire the capabilities
    necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. We expect
    that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies
    with respect to each product or service we offer. If we are not
    able to compete successfully in the future, our business,
    financial condition and results of operations would be adversely
    affected.

Neither
    the sustainability of our current level of business nor any
    potential growth can be assured. Even if we do experience
    growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow
    profitably.

The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our
    ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and
    institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading
    platform. Our business strategy also depends on increasing the
    use of our platform by these clients. Individuals at
    broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting
    interests, which may discourage their use of our platform.

Our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our
    revenue base. We currently derive approximately half of our
    revenues from secondary trading in U.S. high-grade
    corporate bonds. The percentage of our commissions from such
    trading declined from 57.3% in 2006 to 50.0% in 2008. Our
    long-term business strategy is dependent on expanding our
    service offerings and increasing our revenues from other
    fixed-income products and other sources. We cannot assure you
    that our efforts will be successful or result in increased
    revenues or continued profitability.



Because
    we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, it is difficult to
    evaluate our business and prospects.

We expect to encounter risks and difficulties frequently
    experienced by companies operating in rapidly evolving
    industries, such as the electronic financial services industry.
    These risks and difficulties include, but are not limited to,
    our ability to:

•

attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on
    a cost-effective basis;

•

expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and
    service offerings to our clients;

•

respond effectively to competitive pressures;

•

diversify our sources of revenues;

•

maintain adequate control of our expenses;

•

operate, support, expand and develop our operations, website,
    software, communications and other systems;

•

manage growth in personnel and operations;

•

increase awareness of our brand or market positioning;

•

expand our sales and marketing programs; and

•

respond to regulatory changes or demands.

If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing
    our business strategy, our business, financial condition and
    results of operations may suffer.

Further
    decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets
    generally or on our platform would further harm our business and
    profitability.

We have experienced significant decreases in overall trading
    volume over the past 18 months, and may continue to
    experience decreases in trading volume in the future. Declines
    in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in
    market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate
    volatility, result in lower revenues from commissions for trades
    executed on our electronic trading platform and fees generated
    from related activities.

Likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the
    fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in
    trading volume to segments of clients which we have not
    penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform
    and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. During
    recent periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the
    use of electronic trading platforms by market participants
    decreased dramatically as institutional investors sought to
    obtain additional information during the trade process through
    conversations with broker-dealers. In addition, during rapidly
    moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices
    electronically.

A further decline in trading volumes on our platform for any
    reason will continue to have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may
    enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult
    to evaluate.

We anticipate that from time to time we will introduce new fee
    plans for the U.S. high-grade corporate bond, Eurobond and
    other market segments in which we operate. Any new fee plan may
    include different fee structures or provide volume incentives.

We cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an
    increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform
    or that our revenues will increase as a result of the
    implementation of any such fee plans. Furthermore, resistance to
    the new fee plans by our broker-dealer or institutional investor
    clients or a reduction in the number of dealers participating on
    our platform could have an adverse impact on our distribution
    fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.



We are
    exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by
    counterparties to certain transactions executed between our
    clients in which we act as an intermediary in matching back-to
    back bond trades.

In June 2006, we began executing riskless principal bond
    transactions between our broker-dealer clients on the
    DealerAxess

®

platform, and during 2008 we extended our riskless principal
    role to include the execution of certain bond transactions
    between institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. We
    (through our subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation) act as an
    intermediary in these transactions by serving as counterparty to
    both the buyer and the seller in matching

back-to-back

trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing
    organization. Settlement typically occurs within one to three
    trading days after the trade date. Cash settlement of the
    transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying
    instrument that was traded.

We are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading
    counterparty to our clients executing bond trades on our
    platform, whether on the
    DealerAxess

®

platform or otherwise. We are exposed to the risk that third
    parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not
    perform their obligations. These parties may default on their
    obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity,
    operational failure or other reasons. Adverse movements in the
    prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions
    can increase our risk. Where the unmatched position or failure
    to deliver is prolonged there may also be regulatory capital
    charges required to be taken by us. The policies and procedures
    we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. There
    can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will
    effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk.

We are
    dependent on our broker-dealer clients, three of which were also
    our stockholders as of January 1, 2008, who are not
    restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities,
    directly or through their own proprietary or third-party
    platforms, with institutional investors.

We rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and
    liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond
    prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and
    responding to institutional investor client inquiries. The
    contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are
    minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. Our
    broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities
    through traditional methods, including by telephone and

e-mail

messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. Some
    of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading
    networks which compete with us or have announced their intention
    to explore the development of such electronic trading networks,
    and most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients
    are involved in other ventures, including other electronic
    trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading
    participants

and/or

as
    investors. These competing trading platforms may offer some
    features that we do not currently offer. Accordingly, there can
    be no assurance that such broker-dealers’ primary
    commitments will not be to one of our competitors.

Any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by
    our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different
    bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on
    our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our
    platform by our institutional investor clients. The occurrence
    of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We
    derive a significant percentage of our total revenues, and an
    even greater percentage of our commissions, from broker-dealer
    clients who are also our stockholders.

We have historically earned a substantial portion of our
    commissions from broker-dealer clients that were our
    stockholders. For the year ended December 31, 2008,
    $12.5 million or 17.0% of our commissions, for the year
    ended December 31, 2007, $31.4 million or 39.2% of our
    commissions, and for the year ended December 31, 2006,
    $35.6 million or 49.9% of our commissions, were generated
    by these stockholder broker-dealer clients. None of our
    broker-dealer clients is contractually or otherwise obligated to
    continue to use our electronic trading platform. Reduced
    involvement of these broker-dealer clients due to the reduction
    in the level of their equity ownership may cause them to reduce
    or discontinue their use of our electronic trading platform and
    other services, which could negatively impact the use of our
    platform by our institutional investor clients. The loss of, or
    a significant reduction of, participation on our platform by
    these broker-dealer clients may have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



If we
    experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or
    fail to meet revenues and earnings expectations, our stock price
    may fall rapidly and without advance notice.

Due to the continuing global credit crisis, the unpredictability
    of our industry and our evolving business model, we have and may
    continue to experience significant fluctuations in our operating
    results. We base our current and future expense levels and our
    investment plans on estimates of future revenues and future rate
    of growth. Our expenses and investments are, to a large extent,
    fixed and we expect that these expenses will increase in the
    future. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough
    if our revenues fall short of our expectations.

Our revenues and operating results may also fluctuate due to
    other factors, including:

•

our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients and attract new broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients;

•

our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic
    trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and
    institutional investor clients;

•

changes in our pricing policies;

•

the introduction of new features on our electronic trading
    platform;

•

the effectiveness of our sales force;

•

new product and service introductions by our competitors;

•

fluctuations in overall market trading volume;

•

technical difficulties or interruptions in our service;

•

general economic conditions in our geographic markets;

•

additional investment in our services or operations; and

•

regulatory compliance costs.

As a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly
    on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our
    stock price.

We may
    not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic
    trading platform, new services and/or service enhancements in a
    timely or acceptable manner, which could harm our competitive
    position.

Our business environment is characterized by rapid technological
    change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands
    and evolving industry standards. Our future will depend on our
    ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new
    versions of, our electronic trading platform. The success of new
    features and versions depends on several factors, including the
    timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the
    feature or version. In addition, the market for our electronic
    trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require
    customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling
    to provide. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the
    demand for new services, products and technologies and develop
    new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading
    platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on
    a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

As we
    enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract
    clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use
    in those markets.

Our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform
    to enter new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able
    to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology
    for use in other markets. Even if we do adapt our software and
    technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract
    clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. We
    cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of
    any of these opportunities will be successful. If these efforts
    are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings,



which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of
    our common stock. Furthermore, these efforts may divert
    management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources.

Rapid
    technological changes may render our technology obsolete or
    decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients.

We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading
    platform. The electronic financial services industry is
    characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly
    complex systems and infrastructures and new business models. If
    new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing
    technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become
    obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. Our future
    success will depend on our ability to:

•

enhance our existing products and services;

•

develop

and/or

license new products and technologies that address the
    increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer
    and institutional investor clients and prospective
    clients; and

•

respond to technological advances and emerging industry
    standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.

Developing our electronic trading platform and other technology
    entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new
    technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our
    electronic trading platform, information databases and network
    infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client
    requirements or emerging industry standards. For example, our
    electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches
    and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical
    part of our service, and it may become

out-of-date

or insufficient from our broker-dealer clients’ or
    institutional investor clients’ perspective and in relation
    to the inquiry functionality of our competitors’ systems.
    If we face material delays in introducing new services, products
    and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor
    clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our
    competitors.

Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking or
    telecommunications technologies may require us to devote
    substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement
    new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and
    transaction-processing systems to client requirements or
    emerging industry standards. We cannot assure you that we will
    be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market
    conditions or client requirements.

We
    depend on third-party suppliers for key products and
    services.

We rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our
    trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and
    other equipment, and related support and maintenance. We cannot
    assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue
    to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective
    manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately
    expand their services to meet our needs. If we are unable to
    make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical
    products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product
    or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing
    service provider, our business, financial condition and results
    of operations could be materially adversely affected.

In particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our
    corporate bond reference database. Disruptions in the services
    provided by that third party to us, including as a result of
    their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products
    that are critical to the success of our business, could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.

We also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on
    third parties for various computer and communications systems,
    such as telephone companies, online service providers, data
    processors, and software and hardware vendors. Other third
    parties provide, for instance, our data center,
    telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems
    and software licensing, support and maintenance services. Any
    interruption in these or other third-party services or
    deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of
    our service. We cannot be certain of the financial viability of
    all of the third parties on which we rely.



We license software from third parties, much of which is
    integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. We
    also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality
    assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading
    platform and other systems. Continued access to these licensors
    and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to
    alternative software and information technology contractors is
    important to our operations. Adverse changes in any of these
    relationships could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

We attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service,
    confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing
    and other terms in our contracts with our service providers.
    These contracts usually have multi-year terms. However, there is
    no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we
    will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements
    with alternate service providers on competitive terms. Further,
    the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to
    terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and
    our competitors advance their own operations and contracts.

Our
    success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic
    trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer
    systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business
    interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause
    us to lose clients.

In order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time
    access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer
    and institutional investor clients. If our electronic trading
    platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service
    or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which
    would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

As our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to
    improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and
    infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order
    message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new
    and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of
    new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and
    ancillary products and services. The expansion of our electronic
    trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will
    continue to require, substantial financial, operational and
    technical resources. These resources will typically need to be
    committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading
    volumes and order messages. We cannot assure you that our
    estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be
    accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate
    actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or
    degradation of performance. Furthermore, we use new technologies
    to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these
    new technologies also entails technical, financial and business
    risks. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement
    new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading
    platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging
    industry standards. The inability of our electronic trading
    platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order
    messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business.

We cannot assure you that we will not experience systems
    failures. Our electronic trading platform, computer and
    communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to
    damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other
    things:

•

irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during
    peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility;

•

power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or
    software errors;

•

human error;

•

computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting
    potential lapses in security), both internal and external;

•

natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of God;

•

acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostility; and

•

loss of support services from third parties, including those to
    whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure
    critical to our business.



In the event that any of our systems, or those of our
    third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any
    one or more of the following to occur:

•

unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients;

•

slower response times or delays in our clients’ trade
    execution;

•

incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of
    trades;

•

financial losses and liabilities to clients;

•

litigation or other claims against us, including formal
    complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and

•

regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions.

Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or
    decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures
    caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage
    our reputation, business and brand name and lead our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or
    cease their use of our electronic trading platform.

In these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster
    recovery plans may not be adequate. Similarly, although many of
    our contracts with our service providers require them to have
    disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be
    adequate or implemented properly. In addition, our business
    interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for
    losses that may occur.

We also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to
    properly respond to system problems. We internally support and
    maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including
    those underlying our electronic trading platform. Our failure to
    monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary,
    to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and
    cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.

If our
    security measures are breached and unauthorized access is
    obtained to our electronic trading platform, broker-dealers and
    institutional investors may become hesitant to use, or reduce or
    stop their use of, our trading platform.

Our electronic trading platform involves the storage and
    transmission of our clients’ proprietary information. The
    secure transmission of confidential information over public
    networks is a critical element of our operations. Security
    breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information,
    litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are
    breached as a result of third-party action, employee error,
    malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains
    unauthorized access to trading or other confidential
    information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may
    suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because
    techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage
    computer systems change frequently and generally are not
    recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to
    anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive
    measures. If an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our
    security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of
    our security measures could be harmed and could cause our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to reduce or
    stop their use of our electronic trading platform. We may be
    required to expend significant resources to protect against the
    threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including
    reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches.
    Although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard
    security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will
    be sufficient.

We may
    not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or
    technology effectively, which would allow competitors to
    duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. This
    could adversely affect our ability to compete.

Intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to
    compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property
    rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our
    technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent,
    copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States
    and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements,
    third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other
    contractual provisions and technical



measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We attempt
    to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership
    provisions in our contracts and also require employees,
    consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into
    confidentiality agreements in order to protect the
    confidentiality of our proprietary information. We have filed
    six patent applications covering aspects of our technology

and/or

business, but can make no assurances that any such patents will
    be issued or, if issued, will protect our business and processes
    from competition. Additionally, laws and our contractual terms
    may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or
    theft by third parties. For instance, a third party might
    reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology
    without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby
    infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or
    replicate our products. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that
    these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors
    from independently developing technologies that are
    substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.

We may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert
    against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but
    lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex
    and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. In
    addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the
    future provide our services may not protect software and
    intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of
    the United States.

Defending
    against intellectual property infringement or other claims could
    be expensive and disruptive to our business. If we are found to
    infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required
    to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license
    agreements with third parties.

In the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based
    on allegations of infringement or other violations of
    intellectual property rights. As the number of participants in
    our market increases and the number of patents and other
    intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility
    of an intellectual property claim against us grows. Although we
    have never been the subject of a material intellectual property
    dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert
    in the future that our technology or the manner in which we
    operate our business violates its intellectual property rights.
    From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we
    may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to
    the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that
    third parties may assert intellectual property claims against
    us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our
    business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases
    and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. Any
    claims, whether with or without merit, could:

•

be expensive and time-consuming to defend;

•

prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our
    business;

•

cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part
    of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the
    challenged intellectual property;

•

require us to redesign our products or services, which may not
    be feasible;

•

result in significant monetary liability;

•

divert management’s attention and resources; and

•

require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements
    in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies,
    which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms.

We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert
    infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our
    electronic trading platform or any of our other current or
    future products or services or that any such assertion will not
    require us to cease providing such services or products, try to
    redesign our products or services, enter into royalty
    arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could
    be costly to us. Any of these events could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.



If we
    acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies,
    we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our
    financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the
    anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such
    transactions.

If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire
    or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that
    we believe are strategic. We may not be able to identify,
    negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment
    successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in
    a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and
    investments involve a number of risks, including:

•

we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further
    our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or
    assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition
    decision may change;

•

we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or
    products with our existing electronic trading platform, products
    and services;

•

we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel
    of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the
    acquired business;

•

there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those
    of the acquired company;

•

our ongoing business and management’s attention may be
    disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and
    the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse
    enterprises;

•

we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls,
    procedures and policies across locations;

•

an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated
    employees or third parties; and

•

we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated
    with product quality, technology and legal contingencies.

These factors could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or
    multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to
    time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or
    investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such
    negotiations could result in significant diversion of management
    time, as well as

out-of-pocket

costs.

The consideration paid in connection with an investment or
    acquisition also affects our financial results. If we were to
    proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the
    consideration included cash, we could be required to use a
    substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any
    acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or
    other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or
    other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings
    per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in
    the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of
    acquired in-process research and development costs, and
    restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and
    other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests,
    which could result in future impairment charges as was the case
    in 2008 with the write-down of certain TWS-related intangible
    assets.

We may
    be limited in our use of our U.S. net operating loss
    carryforwards.

As of December 31, 2008, we had U.S. net operating
    loss carryforwards of approximately $103.3 million that
    will begin to expire in 2019. A net operating loss carryforward
    enables a company to apply net operating losses incurred during
    a current period against future periods’ profits in order
    to reduce tax liability in those future periods.

Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code provides that when
    a company undergoes an “ownership change,” that
    company’s use of its net operating losses is limited
    annually in each subsequent year. An “ownership
    change” occurs when, as of any testing date, the sum of the
    increases in ownership of each shareholder that owns five
    percent or more of the value of a company’s stock as
    compared to that shareholder’s lowest percentage ownership
    during the preceding three-year period exceeds
    50 percentage points. For purposes of this rule, certain
    shareholders who own less than five percent of a company’s
    stock are aggregated and treated as a single five-percent
    shareholder.

In 2000 and 2001, MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and MarketAxess
    Corporation had an “ownership change.” Net operating
    loss carryforwards of $37.6 million existed as of the date
    of ownership change. However, only $5.2 million



are deemed utilizable and recognized in the net operating loss
    carryforward figure. MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Greenline
    Financial Technologies, Inc. experienced ownership changes in
    2007 and 2008, respectively. We do not believe that these
    ownership changes significantly impact our ability to utilize
    existing or acquired net operating loss carryforwards.

The issuance or repurchase of a significant number of shares of
    stock or purchases or sales of stock by significant shareholders
    could result in an additional “ownership change.” For,
    example, we may issue a substantial number of shares of our
    stock in connection with offerings, acquisitions and other
    transactions in the future and we could repurchase a significant
    number of shares in connection with a stock repurchase program,
    although no assurance can be given that any such offering,
    acquisition, other transaction or repurchase program will be
    undertaken. In addition, the exercise of outstanding options to
    purchase shares of our common stock may require us to issue
    additional shares of our common stock. The extent of the actual
    future use of our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards is
    subject to inherent uncertainty because it depends on the amount
    of otherwise taxable income we may earn. We cannot give any
    assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future
    years to use any of our federal net operating loss carryforwards
    before they would otherwise expire.

We are
    dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member
    of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan
    in a timely manner.

Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our
    executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Richard
    M. McVey, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of
    Directors. The terms of Mr. McVey’s employment
    agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us
    and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject
    to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested
    equity options, performance shares and restricted stock. Any
    loss or interruption of Mr. McVey’s services or that
    of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel
    could result in our inability to manage our operations
    effectively

and/or

pursue our business strategy.

Because
    competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to
    attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to
    support our business.

We strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to
    establish and maintain long-term relationships with our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. Our ability to
    provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well
    as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends
    in large part upon our employees. We must attract and retain
    highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is
    intense, especially for software engineers with extensive
    experience in designing and developing software and
    Internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians,
    product managers and senior sales executives.

The market for qualified personnel continues to be competitive
    despite overall economic conditions, as electronic commerce has
    experienced growth. Many of the companies with which we compete
    for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have
    and are longer established in the marketplace. In addition, in
    making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet,
    high-technology and financial services industries, job
    candidates often consider the total compensation package
    offered, including the value of the stock- based compensation
    they are to receive in connection with their employment.
    Significant volatility in the price of our common stock may
    adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees.
    The expensing of stock-based compensation may discourage us from
    granting the size or type of stock-based compensation that job
    candidates may require to join our company.

We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts
    to recruit and retain the required personnel. The failure to
    attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current
    personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.

Termination
    of employees may result in additional costs

We are currently involved in an arbitration case filed by a
    former employee. We believe that the claims are without merit
    and we intend to vigorously defend against them. However, an
    adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types
    of claims may have an adverse effect on our financial condition
    or results of operations.



Regardless of the outcome of this case, we may incur significant
    expense and management time dealing with these and other such
    claims. In addition, we have paid severance amounts in
    connection with the involuntary termination of employees in the
    past and may offer severance packages in connection with future
    reductions in force, if any.

Our
    business is subject to increasingly extensive government and
    other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer
    clients may subject us to increasing regulatory
    scrutiny.

The financial industry is extensively regulated by many
    governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations,
    including the SEC and FINRA. As a matter of public policy, these
    regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity
    of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the
    interests of investors in those markets. These regulatory bodies
    have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and
    sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations.

Most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly
    regulated, including:

•

the way we deal with our clients;

•

our capital requirements;

•

our financial and regulatory reporting practices;

•

required record-keeping and record retention procedures;

•

the licensing of our employees; and

•

the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates.

We cannot assure you that we

and/or

our
    directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply
    with these laws, rules and regulations. If we fail to comply
    with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject
    to censure, fines,

cease-and-desist

orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or
    other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in FINRA
    and registration as a broker-dealer.

We have two major operating subsidiaries, MarketAxess
    Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited. MarketAxess
    Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited are subject to
    U.S. and U.K. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and
    as a multilateral trading facility, respectively, which prohibit
    repayment of borrowings from the Company or affiliates, paying
    cash dividends, making loans to the Company or affiliates or
    otherwise entering into transactions that result in a
    significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial
    resources, without prior notification to or approval from such
    subsidiary’s principal regulator.

In addition, as a result of the global financial crisis and
    other events in the financial industry over the past
    18 months, there is a greater likelihood of legislative and
    regulatory action to increase government oversight of the
    financial services industry. Changes in laws or regulations or
    in governmental policies, including the rules relating to the
    maintenance of specific levels of net capital applicable to our
    broker-dealer subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
    Our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory
    changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in
    the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which
    could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause
    the development of affected markets to become impractical. In
    addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is
    likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and
    regulations. We cannot predict the extent to which any future
    regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and
    operations.

Our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to
    regulation as an alternative trading system under
    Regulation ATS. A determination by the SEC to treat our
    trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to
    Regulation ATS would subject us to additional reporting
    obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our
    business, many of which could be material. Our anonymous

dealer-to-dealer

trading service,
    DealerAxess

®

,

    is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to
    Regulation ATS.

As an enterprise founded and historically controlled by
    broker-dealer competitors, we may be subject to ongoing
    regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not
    likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. In November
    2000, we received a Civil Investigative Demand from the
    U.S. Department of Justice in



connection with the Antitrust Division’s investigation of
    electronic bond and other consortia trading systems. After
    compliance with all information requests, we received notice
    from the U.S. Department of Justice in 2004 that the
    investigation had been officially closed. As the use of our
    electronic trading platform grows and represents a greater share
    of the trading volume of fixed-income securities, the risk that
    other regulatory investigations could commence in the future
    increases. Additionally, the involvement of individuals
    affiliated with certain of our broker-dealer clients on our
    Board of Directors and as stockholders may subject us to
    increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. At any time, the
    outcome of investigations and other regulatory scrutiny could
    lead to compulsory changes to our business model, conduct or
    practices, or our relationships with our broker-dealer clients,
    or additional governmental scrutiny or private lawsuits against
    us, any of which could materially harm our revenues, impair our
    ability to provide access to the broadest range of fixed-income
    securities and impact our ability to grow and compete
    effectively, particularly as we implement new initiatives
    designed to enhance our competitive position.

The activities and consequences described above may result in
    significant distractions to our management and could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.

We
    expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the
    United States; however, we may face special economic and
    regulatory challenges that we may not be able to
    meet.

We operate an electronic trading platform in Europe and we plan
    to further expand our operations throughout Europe and other
    regions. There are certain risks inherent in doing business in
    international markets, particularly in the financial services
    industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions
    outside the United States. These risks include:

•

less developed technological infrastructures and generally
    higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of
    our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading
    platform;

•

difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for
    planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any
    approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the
    operation of our business;

•

the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory
    requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly
    evolving and subject to unexpected change;

•

difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;

•

fluctuations in exchange rates;

•

reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights;

•

seasonal reductions in business activity; and

•

potentially adverse tax consequences.

Our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely
    affect our business and limit our ability to expand our
    international operations, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.

We
    cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain
    additional financing if we need it.

Our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate
    funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory
    requirements. Although we believe that our available cash
    resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated
    liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at
    least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to
    raise additional funds to, among other things:

•

support more rapid growth of our business;

•

develop new or enhanced services and products;

•

fund operating losses;

•

respond to competitive pressures;



•

acquire complementary companies or technologies;

•

enter into strategic alliances;

•

increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our
    operations; or

•

respond to unanticipated capital requirements.

We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in
    amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, particularly in
    light of the recent economic turmoil which has, among other
    consequences, led to a depression in stock prices and the
    tightening of available credit. Our existing investors,
    including our broker-dealer clients and their affiliates, have
    no obligation to make further investments in us, and we do not
    anticipate that they will do so. If sufficient funds are not
    available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our
    ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of acquisition
    opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or
    otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be
    significantly limited. These limitations could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

The
    requirements of being a public company may strain our resources,
    divert management’s attention and affect our ability to
    attract and retain qualified board members.

As a public company, we are subject to the reporting
    requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and NASDAQ rules promulgated in
    response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirements of these
    rules and regulations have imposed legal and financial
    compliance costs, made some activities more difficult,
    time-consuming or costly and may in the future place undue
    strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934 requires, among other things, that we file annual,
    quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and
    financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among
    other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and
    procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In
    order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our
    disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
    financial reporting, significant resources and management
    oversight are required. As a result, management’s attention
    may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.

These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult
    for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of
    our Board of Directors. Additionally, we expect these rules and
    regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us
    to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be
    required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially
    higher costs to obtain coverage. NASDAQ rules also require that
    a majority of our Board of Directors and all of the members of
    certain

sub-committees

of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors. We
    cannot assure you that our Board of Directors will continue to
    include a majority of independent directors to comply with the
    requirements of these rules.

We are
    subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws
    liability.

Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients,
    involve substantial risks of liability. Dissatisfied clients may
    make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly
    settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their
    service providers. We and our clients may become subject to
    these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our
    electronic trading platform and services provided by us. We
    could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even
    those without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuits or
    claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risks
    Related to Our Industry

If the
    use of electronic trading platforms does not continue to
    increase, we will not be able to achieve our business
    objectives.

The success of our business plan depends in part on our ability
    to create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of
    fixed-income products. Historically, fixed-income securities
    markets operated through telephone



communications between institutional investors and
    broker-dealers. The utilization of our products and services
    depends on the acceptance, adoption and growth of electronic
    means of trading securities. We cannot assure you that the
    growth and acceptance of electronic means of trading securities
    will continue.

Economic,
    political and market factors beyond our control could reduce
    demand for our services and harm our business, and our
    profitability could suffer.

The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky
    and volatile and is directly affected by many national and
    international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of
    these factors may cause a substantial decline in the
    U.S. and global financial services markets, resulting in
    reduced trading volume. These events could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations. These factors include:

•

economic and political conditions in the United States and
    elsewhere;

•

adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures
    or other disruptions in trading;

•

consolidation or contraction in the number of broker-dealers;

•

actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed
    hostilities;

•

concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels;

•

the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and
    other wholesale and retail investors;

•

the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency
    exchange rates; and

•

legislative and regulatory changes.

Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced
    activity and prices in the securities markets generally. Our
    revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly
    during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading
    volume in the U.S. and global financial markets.

Risks
    Related to Our Common Stock

Market
    volatility may cause our stock price and the value of your
    investment to decline.

The market price of our common stock may be significantly
    affected by volatility in the markets in general. The market
    price of our common stock likely will continue to fluctuate in
    response to factors including the following:

•

the other risk factors described in this annual report on

Form 10-K;

•

prevailing interest rates;

•

the market for similar securities;

•

additional issuances of common stock;

•

general economic conditions; and

•

our financial condition, performance and prospects, including
    our ability or inability to meet analyst expectations.

Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, the
    stock markets in general, including the NASDAQ Global Select
    Market, have experienced and continue to experience significant
    price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted
    in volatility in the market prices of securities for companies
    such as ours that often has been unrelated or disproportionate
    to changes in the operating performance of the affected
    companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may
    affect adversely the market price of our common stock regardless
    of our operating performance.



We do
    not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the
    foreseeable future.

We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders
    of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly,
    investors must rely on the sale of their common stock after
    price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to
    realize any future gains on their investment.

If
    securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our
    business or if they downgrade our common stock, the price of our
    common stock could decline.

The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the
    research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish
    about us or our business. These analysts work independently of
    us. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock,
    our stock price could decline rapidly. If one or more of these
    analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility
    in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to
    decline.

Provisions
    in our stockholders rights plan, amended and restated
    certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or
    Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of
    control of our company or changes in our management, and
    therefore, depress the trading price of our common
    stock.

Our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholders rights plan,
    commonly referred to as a “poison pill.” This plan
    entitles existing stockholders to rights, including the right to
    purchase shares of common stock, in the event of an acquisition
    of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. Our stockholders
    rights plan could prevent stockholders from profiting from an
    increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a
    change of control of us by delaying or preventing a change of
    control.

In addition, provisions of our charter documents and bylaws may
    make it substantially more difficult for a third party to
    acquire control of us and may prevent changes in our management,
    including provisions that:

•

prevent stockholders from calling special meetings;

•

allow the directors to amend the bylaws without stockholder
    approval; and

•

set forth procedures for nominating directors and submitting
    proposals for consideration at stockholders’ meetings.

Provisions of Delaware law may also inhibit potential
    acquisition bids for us or prevent us from engaging in business
    combinations. In addition, we have severance agreements with
    several employees and a change of control severance plan that
    could require an acquiror to pay a higher price. Either
    collectively or individually, these provisions may prevent
    holders of our common stock from benefiting from what they may
    believe are the positive aspects of acquisitions and takeovers,
    including the potential realization of a higher rate of return
    on their investment from these types of transactions.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2.

Properties.

Our corporate headquarters and principal U.S. offices are
    located at 140 Broadway, New York, New York, where we lease
    29,300 square feet under a lease expiring in February 2010.
    We also collectively lease approximately 22,900 square feet
    for our other office locations in the U.S. and the United
    Kingdom under various leases expiring between May 2010 and March
    2019. In addition, we lease another 17,000 square feet at
    350 Madison Avenue, New York, New York, which we currently
    sublet; the lease and sublease expire in April 2011.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings.

In January 2007, a former employee of MarketAxess Corporation
    commenced an arbitration proceeding before FINRA arising out of
    the May 2006 termination of such individual’s employment
    with MarketAxess Corporation. This individual subsequently
    amended his statement of claim to add MarketAxess Holdings Inc.
    as a



party to the arbitration proceeding. FINRA consolidated all of
    the former employee’s claims into a single proceeding.

The former employee alleges that we acted wrongfully as a result
    of, and in connection with, the decision by the Compensation
    Committee of our Board of Directors not to accede to the
    employee’s demand for alteration of the terms of certain
    stock option and restricted stock agreements in order to award
    the employee additional rights and benefits upon the termination
    of his employment,

i.e.

, accelerated vesting of all of
    his then unvested options and shares of restricted stock and
    waiver of the

90-day

time
    period within which he was contractually required to exercise
    his vested options. This former employee further alleges that he
    is entitled to a bonus for the approximately five months that he
    worked for MarketAxess Corporation during 2006. The alleged
    damages sought by the claimant total approximately
    $0.9 million, plus statutory interest, and an unstated
    amount of punitive damages, costs and expenses.

The FINRA hearing, which had been scheduled for early February
    2009, has been postponed until a new hearing date can be
    rescheduled. We believe that these claims are wholly without
    merit and have vigorously defended against them. Based on
    currently available information, we believe that the likelihood
    of a material loss is not probable. Accordingly, no amount has
    been provided in the financial statements. However, arbitration
    is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings
    could occur.

Item 4.

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

None.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Price
    Range

Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under
    the symbol “MKTX”. The range of closing price
    information for our common stock, as reported by NASDAQ, was as
    follows:

2008:

High

Low

January 1, 2008 to March 31, 2008

$

12.28

$

8.83

April 1, 2008 to June 30, 2008

$

10.35

$

7.47

July 1, 2008 to September 30, 2008

$

10.78

$

6.19

October 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008

$

8.16

$

4.31

2007:

High

Low

January 1, 2007 to March 31, 2007

$

16.95

$

12.41

April 1, 2007 to June 30, 2007

$

18.20

$

16.00

July 1, 2007 to September 30, 2007

$

19.32

$

14.00

October 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007

$

16.34

$

11.70

On February 26, 2009, the last reported closing price of
    our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $7.93.

Holders

There were 96 holders of record of our common stock as of
    February 26, 2009.

Dividend
    Policy

We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital
    stock since our inception and do not anticipate paying any cash
    dividends in the foreseeable future.

In the event we decide to declare dividends on our common stock
    in the future, such declaration will be subject to the
    discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board may take into
    account such matters as general business conditions, our
    financial results, capital requirements, contractual, legal, and
    regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by us to our
    stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us and any such other
    factors as our Board may deem relevant.

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities

None.

Securities
    Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
    Plans

Please see the section entitled “Equity Compensation Plan
    Information” in Item 12.



Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities

During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, we repurchased
    the following shares of common stock:

Total Number of

Dollar Value of

Shares Purchased

Shares That May

Total Number of

Average Price Paid

as Part of Publicly

Yet Be Purchased

Period

Shares Purchased

per Share

Announced Plans

Under the Plans

(In thousands)

October 1, 2008 — October 31, 2008

11,369

$

7.21

—

$

—

November 1, 2008 — November 30, 2008

—

—

—

—

December 1 , 2008 — December 31, 2008

—

—

—

—

11,369

$

7.21

—

During the three months ended December 31, 2008, a total of
    11,369 shares were forfeited by employees to us to satisfy
    employee withholding tax obligations upon the vesting of
    restricted shares.



STOCK
    PERFORMANCE GRAPH

The following graph shows a comparison from November 5,
    2004 (the date our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ
    Global Select Market) through December 31, 2008 of
    (i) the cumulative total return for our common stock,
    (ii) the NASDAQ Composite Index, (iii) the NASDAQ
    Global Select Market Composite Index and (iv) the Dow Jones
    US Financial Services Index.

The NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite Index, introduced in
    July 2006, is a market capitalization weighted index that
    measures all NASDAQ domestic and international based common type
    stocks listed in the Global Select tier of the NASDAQ Stock
    Market. The index carries the index history of the NASDAQ
    National Market Composite Index.

The figures in this graph assume an initial investment of $100
    in our common stock at the closing price of $17.49 on
    November 5, 2004, the date our common stock commenced
    trading on the NASDAQ National Market (now the NASDAQ Global
    Select Market), and an initial investment of $100 on
    October 31, 2004 in each of the three indexes.

The returns illustrated below are based on historical results
    during the period indicated and should not be considered
    indicative of future stockholder returns. Data for the NASDAQ
    Composite Index, the NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite Index
    and the Dow Jones US Financial Services Index assume
    reinvestment of dividends. We have never paid dividends on our
    common stock and have no present plans to do so. All performance
    data have been provided by Research Data Group, Inc.

COMPARISON
    OF 50 MONTH CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN

*

On November 2, 2004, the registration statement relating to
    our initial public offering at a price of $11.00 per share was
    declared effective. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ
    National Market (now the NASDAQ Global Select Market) on
    November 5, 2004 and, as required by SEC regulations, the
    above graph begins with the closing price of our common stock on
    that date of $17.49.



Item 6.

Selected
    Financial Data.

The selected statement of operations data for each of the years
    ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and the selected
    balance sheet data as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 have
    been derived from our audited financial statements included
    elsewhere in this

Form 10-K.

The selected statement of operations data for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the balance sheet data as
    of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 have been derived from
    our audited financial statements not included in this

Form 10-K.

Year Ended December 31,






(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Statement of Operations Data:

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade(1)

$

46,547

$

52,541

$

47,752

$

45,615

$

45,465

Eurobond

18,146

18,828

15,368

14,078

15,142

Other(2)

8,835

8,845

8,310

7,225

7,565

Total commissions

73,528

80,214

71,430

66,918

68,172

Technology products and services(3)

8,555


—

—

—

Information and user access fees

6,025

5,877

5,477

4,435

2,713

Interest income

3,478

5,242

4,595

3,160


Other(4)

1,499

1,568

1,814

4,047

4,030

Total revenues

93,085

93,643

83,316

78,560

75,797

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits(5)

43,810

43,051

42,078

35,445

33,146

Depreciation and amortization

7,879

7,170

6,728

5,649

3,468

Technology and communications

8,311

7,463

7,704

7,401

6,402

Professional and consulting fees

8,171

7,639

8,072

9,355

4,908

Warrant-related expense(6)

—

—

—

—

2,524

Occupancy

2,891

3,275

3,033

2,365

1,842

Marketing and advertising

2,781

1,905

1,769

2,581

2,530

Moneyline revenue share

—

—

—

—

1,240

General and administrative

6,408

5,889

5,328

4,203

2,421

Total expenses

80,251

76,392

74,712

66,999

58,481

Income before income taxes

12,834

17,251

8,604

11,561

17,316

Provision (benefit) for income taxes(7)

4,935

6,931

3,183

3,419

(40,271

)

Net income

$

7,899

$

10,320

$

5,421

$

8,142

$

57,587

Net income per common share(8):

Basic

$

0.23

$

0.32

$

0.18

$

0.29

$

6.76

Diluted

$

0.22

$

0.30

$

0.15

$

0.23

$

1.88

Weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding:

Basic

32,830,923

32,293,036

30,563,437

28,156,505

7,097,682

Diluted

35,737,379

34,453,195

35,077,348

35,512,346

30,638,644



As of December 31,






(In thousands)

Balance Sheet Data:

Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and securities
    available-for-sale

$

142,550

$

124,290

$

131,015

$

118,145

$

103,449

Working capital(9)

137,390

120,656

135,268

120,016

103,996

Total assets

246,428

198,366

204,278

190,462

175,646



Item 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.

You should read the following discussion and analysis of our
    financial condition and results of operations in conjunction
    with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated
    financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in
    this

Form 10-K.

In addition to historical information, this discussion and
    analysis contains forward-looking statements relating to future
    events and the future performance of MarketAxess that are based
    on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and
    projections about us and our industry. These forward-looking
    statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results
    and timing of various events could differ materially from those
    anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of a
    variety of factors, as more fully described in this section, in
    “Item 1A. — Risk Factors” and elsewhere
    in this

Form 10-K.

We undertake no obligation to update publicly any
    forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new
    information becomes available or other events occur in the
    future.

Executive
    Summary

MarketAxess operates one of the leading platforms for the
    electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of
    fixed-income securities. Through our platform, 649 active
    institutional investor client firms (firms that executed at
    least one trade in U.S. or European fixed-income securities
    through our electronic trading platform between January 2008 and
    December 2008) can access the aggregate liquidity provided
    by the collective interest of our 48 broker-dealer clients in
    buying or selling bonds through our platform. Our active
    institutional investor clients include investment advisers,
    mutual funds, insurance companies, public and private pension
    funds, bank portfolios and hedge funds. Our
    DealerAxess

®

trading service allows dealers to trade fixed-income securities
    and credit default swaps with each other on our platform.
    Through our Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

service, we provide fixed-income market data, analytics and
    compliance tools that help our clients make trading decisions.
    In addition, we provide FIX (Financial Information eXchange)
    message management tools, connectivity solutions and ancillary
    technology services that facilitate the electronic communication
    of order information between trading counterparties. Our
    revenues are primarily generated from the trading of
    U.S. and European high-grade corporate bonds.

Our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional
    investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable
    bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades
    with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that
    choose to respond. We offer our broker-dealer clients a solution
    that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional
    investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. In
    addition to U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European
    high-grade corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, including
    both investment-grade and non-investment grade debt, we also
    offer our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield
    bonds, agency bonds, new issues and credit default swap indices.

The majority of our revenues are derived from monthly
    distribution fees and commissions for trades executed on our
    platform that are billed to our broker-dealer clients on a
    monthly basis. We also derive revenues from technology products
    and services, information and user access fees, investment
    income and other income. Our expenses consist of employee
    compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization,
    technology and communication expenses, professional and
    consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising and other
    general and administrative expenses.

We seek to grow and diversify our revenues by capitalizing on
    our status as the operator of a leading platform for the
    electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of
    fixed-income securities. The key elements of our strategy are:

•

to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product
    offerings to the MarketAxess platform that we believe will help
    to increase our market share with existing clients, as well as
    expand our client base;

•

to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer
    and institutional investor relationships, to deploy our
    electronic trading platform into additional product segments
    within the fixed-income securities markets, deliver fixed-income
    securities-related technical services and products and deploy
    our electronic trading platform into new client segments;

•

to continue building our existing service offerings so that our
    electronic trading platform is fully integrated into the
    workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients
    and to continue to add functionality



to allow our clients to achieve a fully automated end-to-end
    straight-through processing solution (automation from trade
    initiation to settlement);

•

to add new content and analytical capabilities to Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

in order to improve the value of the information we provide to
    our clients; and

•

to continue to supplement our internal growth by entering into
    strategic alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies
    that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products
    or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to
    our clients.

Critical
    Factors Affecting Our Industry and Our Company

Economic,
    Political and Market Factors

The global fixed-income securities industry is risky and
    volatile and is directly affected by a number of economic,
    political and market factors that may result in declining
    trading volume. These factors could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. These factors include, among others, credit market
    conditions, the current interest rate environment, including the
    volatility of interest rates and investors’ forecasts of
    future interest rates, economic and political conditions in the
    United States, Europe and elsewhere, and consolidation or
    contraction in the number of broker-dealers.

Competitive
    Landscape

The global fixed-income securities industry generally, and the
    electronic financial services markets in which we engage in
    particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to
    intensify in the future. Sources of competition for us will
    continue to include, among others, bond trading conducted
    directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor
    clients over the telephone or electronically and other
    multi-dealer trading companies. Competitors, including companies
    in which some of our broker-dealer clients have invested, have
    developed electronic trading platforms or have announced their
    intention to explore the development of electronic platforms
    that may compete with us.

In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors,
    including, among others, the liquidity provided on our platform,
    the magnitude and frequency of price improvement enabled by our
    platform and the quality and speed of execution. We believe that
    we compete favorably with respect to these factors. We continue
    to proactively build technology solutions that serve the needs
    of the credit markets.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and
    integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor
    clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems.
    We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we
    serve in the development of our platform, working closely with
    our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs.

Regulatory
    Environment

Our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory
    changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in
    the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which
    could require us to incur significant costs.

Our U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation, is a
    registered broker-dealer with the SEC and is a member of FINRA.
    Our U.K. subsidiary, MarketAxess Europe Limited, is registered
    as a multilateral trading facility dealer with the FSA in the
    U.K. MarketAxess Canada Limited, a Canadian subsidiary that we
    incorporated in May 2003, is registered as an Alternative
    Trading System dealer under the Securities Act of Ontario and is
    a member of the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
    Canada. Relevant regulations prohibit repayment of borrowings
    from these subsidiaries or their affiliates, paying cash
    dividends, making loans to us or our affiliates or otherwise
    entering into transactions that result in a significant
    reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources,
    without prior notification to or approval from such regulated
    entity’s principal regulator.

As a public company, we are subject to the reporting
    requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and NASDAQ rules promulgated in
    response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The



requirements of these rules and regulations impose legal and
    financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult,
    time-consuming or costly and may also place a strain on our
    systems and resources. In order to maintain and improve the
    effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and
    internal control over financial reporting, significant resources
    and management oversight are required.

Rapid
    Technological Changes

We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading
    platform. The electronic financial services industry is
    characterized by increasingly complex systems and
    infrastructures and new business models. Our future success will
    depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and
    services, develop

and/or

license new products and technologies that address the
    increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer
    and institutional investor clients and prospective clients and
    respond to technological advances and emerging industry
    standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.

Trends in
    Our Business

The majority of our revenues are derived from monthly
    distribution fees and commissions for transactions executed on
    our platform between our institutional investor and
    broker-dealer clients. We believe that there are five key
    variables that impact the notional value of such transactions on
    our platform and the amount of commissions and distribution fees
    earned by us:

•

the number of institutional investor clients that participate on
    the platform and their willingness to originate transactions
    through the platform;

•

the number of broker-dealer clients on the platform and the
    frequency and competitiveness of the price responses they
    provide to the institutional investor clients;

•

the number of markets for which we make trading available to our
    clients;

•

the overall level of activity in these markets; and

•

the level of commissions that we collect for trades executed
    through the platform.

We believe that overall corporate bond market trading volume is
    affected by various factors including the absolute levels of
    interest rates, the direction of interest rate movements, the
    level of new issues of corporate bonds and the volatility of
    corporate bond spreads versus U.S. Treasury securities.
    Because a significant percentage of our revenue is tied directly
    to the volume of securities traded on our platform, it is likely
    that a general decline in trading volumes, regardless of the
    cause of such decline, would reduce our revenues and have a
    significant negative impact on profitability.

The past 18 months has been a period of significant turmoil
    in the U.S. and European credit markets, especially in
    short-term funding and floating rate note instruments. A
    widespread retrenchment in the credit markets resulted in
    increased credit spreads and significantly higher credit spread
    volatility across a wide range of asset classes. Credit yield
    spreads in U.S. corporate bonds, as measured by the Credit
    Suisse Liquid U.S. Corporate Index (“LUCI”),
    increased from 1.0% over U.S Treasuries in June 2007 to 5.31% in
    December 2008. Credit spread volatility in U.S. corporate
    bonds, as measured by the LUCI Index, increased from 0.7% in
    June 2007 to 11.7% in December 2008. The average daily trading
    volume of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds for the year
    ended December 31, 2008, as measured by TRACE, decreased by
    9.0% compared to 2007. We believe the resultant lack of
    liquidity in the credit markets led institutional investors to
    reduce overall bond trading activity and conduct a higher
    percentage of their trades directly with their broker-dealer
    counterparties via the telephone, resulting in lower volumes on
    our platform. We also believe that a stabilization of credit
    market conditions, at higher overall levels of credit spreads,
    is likely to favorably impact the volume of trades conducted
    over our platform. The lower volumes on our platform were
    partially offset by higher average variable transactions fees
    per million that were $129 in 2008 compared to $103 in 2007 and
    $114 in 2006. The increase in average variable transaction fees
    per million in 2008 was principally the result of the longer
    maturity of U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades executed
    on our platform, for which we charge higher commissions, and a
    larger percentage of Other volume in products that carry higher
    fees per million, principally high yield.



Commission
    Revenue

Commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the
    notional dollar volume of bonds traded on our platform and vary
    based on the type, size, yield and maturity of the bond traded.
    The commission rates are based on a number of factors, including
    fees charged by inter-dealer brokers in the respective markets,
    average bid-offer spreads in the products we offer and
    transaction costs through alternative channels including the
    telephone. Under our transaction fee plans, bonds that are more
    actively traded or that have shorter maturities are generally
    charged lower commissions, while bonds that are less actively
    traded or that have longer maturities generally command higher
    commissions.

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bond
    Commissions.

Our U.S. high-grade corporate
    bond fee plans generally incorporate various monthly
    distribution fees and variable transaction fees billed to our
    broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. We expect the
    U.S. high-grade distribution fees to decrease as a result
    of the recent merger and bankruptcy activity involving several
    of our broker-dealer clients. The fee plan incorporates volume
    incentives to our broker-dealer clients that are designed to
    increase the volume of transactions effected on our platform.
    Under the fee plan, we electronically add the transaction fee to
    the spread quoted by the broker-dealer client. For trades on our
    DealerAxess

®

dealer-to-dealer electronic trading platform, we typically
    charge a fee to the broker-dealer client involved in the
    transaction that is based on the size of the transaction and the
    maturity of the bond traded.

Eurobond Commissions.

On June 1, 2007, we
    introduced a new fee plan for Eurobond trades for the majority
    of our European dealers. Similar to the U.S. high-grade
    plan, our European fee plan incorporates monthly distribution
    fees and a transaction fee that is lower than the transaction
    fee under the previous European high-grade plan and incorporates
    incentives to our broker-dealer clients that are designed to
    increase the volume of transactions effected on our platform.
    The transaction fee under the new plan is dependent on the type
    of bond traded and the maturity of the issue. The combination of
    the distribution fees and transaction fees in the new plan
    results in higher total revenue to us at current or lower volume
    levels. If volume grows, total revenues could be less under the
    new plan than the previous plan due to the lower transaction
    fees. Under the fee plan in effect prior to June 1, 2007,
    broker-dealer transaction fees varied based on the type of bond
    traded and the maturity of the issue. This fee schedule applied
    a tiered fee structure, which reduced the fee per trade upon the
    attainment of certain specified amounts of monthly commissions
    generated by a particular broker-dealer and did not carry a
    monthly distribution fee.

Other Commissions.

Commissions for other bond
    and credit default swap trades generally vary based on the type
    and the maturity of the instrument traded. We generally operate
    using standard fee schedules that may include both transaction
    fees and monthly distribution fees that are charged to the
    participating dealers.

We anticipate that average fees per million may change in the
    future. Consequently, past trends in commissions are not
    necessarily indicative of future commissions.

Other
    Revenue

In addition to the commissions discussed above, we earn revenue
    from technology products and services, information services fees
    paid by institutional investor and broker-dealer clients, income
    on investments and other income.

Technology Products and Services.

Technology
    products and services includes software licenses, maintenance
    and support services and professional consulting services, In
    March 2008, we acquired Greenline Financial Technologies, Inc.
    (“Greenline”), an Illinois-based provider of
    integration, testing and management solutions for FIX-related
    products and services. In November 2007, we acquired certain
    assets of Trade West Systems, LLC (“TWS”), a
    Utah-based financial software and technology services provider
    focused on providing gateway adapters for connecting order
    management systems and trading systems to fixed-income trading
    venues.

Information and User Access Fees.

We charge
    information services fees for Corporate BondTickerTM to our
    broker-dealer clients, institutional investor clients and
    data-only subscribers. The information services fee is a flat
    monthly fee, based on the level of service. We also generate
    information services fees from the sale of bulk data to certain
    institutional investor clients and data-only subscribers.
    Institutional investor clients trading U.S. high-grade
    corporate bonds are charged a monthly user access fee for the
    use of our platform. The fee, billed quarterly, is charged to
    the client based on the number of the client’s users. To
    encourage institutional investor clients to execute



trades on our U.S. high-grade corporate bond platform, we
    reduce these information and user access fees for such clients
    once minimum quarterly trading volumes are attained.

Investment Income.

Investment income consists
    of income earned on our investments.

Other.

Other revenues include fees from
    telecommunications line charges to broker-dealer clients and
    other miscellaneous revenues.

Expenses

In the normal course of business, we incur the following
    expenses:

Employee Compensation and Benefits.

Employee
    compensation and benefits is our most significant expense and
    includes employee salaries, stock compensation costs, other
    incentive compensation, employee benefits and payroll taxes.

Depreciation and Amortization.

We depreciate
    our computer hardware and related software, office hardware and
    furniture and fixtures and amortize our capitalized software
    development costs on a straight-line basis over a three-year or
    five-year period. We amortize leasehold improvements on a
    straight-line basis over the lesser of the life of the
    improvement or the remaining term of the lease. Intangible
    assets with definite lives, including purchased technologies,
    customer relationships and other intangible assets, are
    amortized over their estimated useful lives, ranging from five
    to ten years. Intangible assets are assessed for impairment when
    events or circumstances indicate a possible impairment pursuant
    to the provisions of SFAS No. 144, “Accounting
    for Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed
    Of.”

Technology and Communications.

Technology and
    communications expense consists primarily of costs relating to
    maintenance on software and hardware, our internal network
    connections, data center hosting costs and data feeds provided
    by outside vendors or service providers. The majority of our
    broker-dealer clients have dedicated high-speed communication
    lines to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. We
    charge our broker-dealer clients a monthly fee for these
    connections, which is recovered against the relevant expenses we
    incur.

Professional and Consulting Fees.

Professional
    and consulting fees consist primarily of accounting fees, legal
    fees and fees paid to information technology and non-information
    technology consultants for services provided for the maintenance
    of our trading platform and information services products.

Occupancy.

Occupancy costs consist primarily
    of office and equipment rent, utilities and commercial rent tax.

Marketing and Advertising.

Marketing and
    advertising expense consists primarily of print and other
    advertising expenses we incur to promote our products and
    services. This expense also includes costs associated with
    attending or exhibiting at industry-sponsored seminars,
    conferences and conventions, and travel and entertainment
    expenses incurred by our sales force to promote our trading
    platform and information services.

General and Administrative.

General and
    administrative expense consists primarily of general travel and
    entertainment, board of directors expenses, charitable
    contributions, provision for doubtful accounts, and various
    state franchise and U.K. value-added taxes.

Expenses may grow in the future, primarily due to investment in
    new products, notably in employee compensation and benefits,
    professional and consulting fees, and general and administrative
    expense, but we believe that operating leverage can be achieved
    by increasing volumes in existing products and adding new
    products without substantial additions to our infrastructure.

Critical
    Accounting Estimates

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations discusses our Consolidated
    Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance
    with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
    States, also referred to as U.S. GAAP. The preparation of
    these financial statements requires management to make estimates
    and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses
    during the reporting periods. We base our estimates and
    judgments on historical experience and on various other factors
    that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual



results may differ from these estimates under varying
    assumptions or conditions. Note 2 of the Notes to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements includes a summary of the
    significant accounting policies and methods used in the
    preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Use of
    Estimates

On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and
    judgments, particularly as they relate to accounting policies
    that management believes are critical. That is, these accounting
    policies are most important to the portrayal of our financial
    condition and results of operations and they require
    management’s most difficult, subjective or complex
    judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about
    the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts

We continually monitor collections and payments from our
    customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts. The
    allowance for doubtful accounts is based upon the historical
    collection experience and specific collection issues that have
    been identified.

Software
    Development Costs

We capitalize certain costs associated with the development of
    internal use software at the point at which the conceptual
    formulation, design and testing of possible software project
    alternatives have been completed. We capitalize employee
    compensation and related benefits and third party consulting
    costs incurred during the preliminary software project stage.
    Once the product is ready for its intended use, such costs are
    amortized on a straight-line basis over three years. We review
    the amounts capitalized for impairment whenever events or
    changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of
    the assets may not be recoverable.

Revenue
    Recognition

The majority of our revenues are derived from monthly
    distribution fees and commissions for trades executed on its
    platform that are billed to its broker-dealer clients on a
    monthly basis. We also derive revenues from technology products
    and services, information and user access fees, investment
    income and other income.

Commission revenue.

Commissions are generally
    calculated as a percentage of the notional dollar volume of
    bonds traded on the platform and vary based on the type and
    maturity of the bond traded. Under our transaction fee plans,
    bonds that are more actively traded or that have shorter
    maturities are generally charged lower commissions, while bonds
    that are less actively traded or that have longer maturities
    generally command higher commissions.

Technology products and services.

We recognize
    revenues from technology software licenses, maintenance and
    support services (referred to as post-contract technical support
    or “PCS”) and professional consulting services in
    accordance with the provisions of the American Institute of
    Certified Public Accountants’ Statement of Position
    (“SOP”)

97-2,

“Software Revenue Recognition”

(“SOP 97-2”)

as amended by

SOP 98-4

and

SOP 98-9

and clarified by Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”)
    101, SAB No. 104 and Emerging Issues Task Force
    (“EITF”)

00-21

and

SOP 81-1,

“Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
    Certain Production-Type Contracts”

(“SOP 81-1”).

Revenue is generally recognized when persuasive evidence of an
    arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or
    determinable, and collection is considered probable. We
    generally sell software licenses and services together as part
    of multiple-element arrangements. We also enter into contracts
    for technology integration consulting services unrelated to any
    software product. When we enter into a multiple-element
    arrangement, we use the residual method to allocate the total
    fee among the elements of the arrangement. Under the residual
    method, license revenue is recognized upon delivery when
    vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value exists for all
    of the undelivered elements in the arrangement, but does not
    exist for one or more of the delivered elements in the
    arrangement. Each license arrangement requires that we analyze
    the individual elements in the transaction and estimate the fair
    value of each undelivered element, which typically includes PCS
    and professional services. License revenue consists of license
    fees charged for the use of our products under perpetual and, to
    a lesser extent, term license arrangements. License revenue from
    a perpetual arrangement is generally recognized upon delivery
    while license revenue from a term arrangement is recognized
    ratably over the duration of the arrangement



on a straight-line basis. If the professional services are
    essential to the functionality of the software product, the
    license revenue is recognized upon customer acceptance or
    satisfaction of the service obligation.

Professional services are generally separately priced, are
    available from a number of suppliers and are typically not
    essential to the functionality of our software products.
    Revenues from these services are recognized separately from the
    license fee if the arrangements qualify as “service
    transactions” as defined by

SOP 97-2.

Generally, revenue from

time-and-materials

consulting contracts is recognized as services are performed.

PCS includes telephone support, bug fixes and unspecified rights
    to product upgrades and enhancements, and is recognized ratably
    over the term of the service period, which is generally
    12 months. We estimate the fair value of the PCS portion of
    an arrangement based on the price charged for PCS when sold
    separately. We sell PCS on a separate, standalone basis when
    customers renew PCS.

Revenues from contracts for technology integration consulting
    services are recognized on the percentage-of-completion method
    in accordance with

SOP 81-1.

Percentage-of-completion accounting involves calculating the
    percentage of services provided during the reporting period
    compared to the total estimated services to be provided over the
    duration of the contract. If estimates indicate that a contract
    loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in
    which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable.
    Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the
    estimated direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the
    estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract.
    There were no contract loss provisions recorded as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007. Revenues recognized in excess
    of billings are recorded as unbilled services. Billings in
    excess of revenues recognized are recorded as deferred revenues
    until revenue recognition criteria are met.

Stock-Based
    Compensation

We measure and recognize compensation expense for all
    share-based payment awards in accordance with
    SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based
    Payment” (“SFAS 123R”). This statement
    requires that compensation expense for all share-based awards be
    recognized based on their estimated fair values measured as of
    the grant date. These costs are recognized as an expense in the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations over the requisite service
    period, which is typically the vesting period, with an
    offsetting increase to additional paid-in capital. We adopted
    SFAS 123R using the modified prospective transition method
    effective January 1, 2006.

Income
    Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability
    method in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
    “Accounting for Income Taxes”
    (“SFAS 109”). Deferred income taxes reflect the
    net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial
    reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are
    measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in
    effect when such differences are expected to reverse. The effect
    on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates
    is recognized in income in the period that includes the
    enactment date. A valuation allowance is recognized against
    deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such
    assets will not be realized in future years.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,
    “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an
    Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”
    (“FIN 48”), which applies to all tax positions
    accounted for under SFAS 109. A “tax position”
    includes current or future reductions in taxable income reported
    or expected to be reported on a tax return. FIN 48
    supplements SFAS 109 by defining the confidence level that
    a tax position must meet in order to be recognized in the
    financial statements. The interpretation requires that the tax
    effects of a position be recognized only if it is
    “more-likely-than-not” (i.e., greater than 50%
    likelihood) to be sustained based solely on its technical merits
    as of the reporting date. In making this assessment, a company
    must assume that the taxing authorities will examine the
    position. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48
    effective January 1, 2007, we recognized an increase in
    deferred tax assets of $3.0 million related to previously
    unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as an
    increase to additional paid-in capital of $0.3 million and
    an increase in accrued expenses of $2.7 million.
    Unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2008 were
    $2.7 million. If recognized, this entire amount would
    impact the effective tax rate.



Business
    Combinations, Goodwill and Intangibles Assets

We account for business acquisitions under the purchase method
    of accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 141,
    “Business Combinations.” The total cost of an
    acquisition is allocated to the underlying net assets based on
    their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the
    purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets
    acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of
    certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in
    nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and
    assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash
    flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives.

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets,” we no longer amortize goodwill
    and other intangibles with indefinite lives. We perform an
    impairment review of goodwill on an annual basis and more
    frequently if circumstances change. Intangible assets with
    definite lives, including purchased technologies, customer
    relationships and other intangible assets, are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, ranging
    from five to ten years. Intangible assets are assessed for
    impairment when events or circumstances indicate a possible
    impairment pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 144,
    “Accounting for Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets
    to be Disposed Of.”

Segment
    Results

As an electronic, multi-dealer platform for trading fixed-income
    securities, our operations constitute a single business segment
    pursuant to SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about
    Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.” Because
    of the highly integrated nature of the financial markets in
    which we compete and the integration of our worldwide business
    activities, we believe that results by geographic region,
    products or types of clients are not necessarily meaningful in
    understanding our business.



Results
    of Operations

Financial
    Results

The following table presents our consolidated operating results
    expressed in U.S. dollars and as a percentage of total
    revenues for each of the years presented:

Year Ended December 31,




$

% of Revenues

$

% of Revenues

$

% of Revenues

($ in thousands)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade

$

46,547

50.0

%

$

52,541

56.1

%

$

47,752

57.3

%

Eurobond

18,146

19.5

18,828

20.1

15,368

18.4

Other

8,835

9.5

8,845

9.4

8,310

10.0

Total commissions

73,528

79.0

80,214

85.7

71,430

85.7

Technology products and services

8,555

9.2


0.8

—

0.0

Information and user access fees

6,025

6.5

5,877

6.3

5,477

6.6

Interest income

3,478

3.7

5,242

5.6

4,595

5.5

Other

1,499

1.6

1,568

1.7

1,814

2.2

Total revenues

93,085

100.0

93,643

100.0

83,316

100.0

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

43,810

47.1

43,051

46.0

42,078

50.5

Depreciation and amortization

7,879

8.5

7,170

7.7

6,728

8.1

Technology and communications

8,311

8.9

7,463

8.0

7,704

9.2

Professional and consulting fees

8,171

8.8

7,639

8.2

8,072

9.7

Occupancy

2,891

3.1

3,275

3.5

3,033

3.6

Marketing and advertising

2,781

3.0

1,905

2.0

1,769

2.1

General and administrative

6,408

6.9

5,889

6.3

5,328

6.4

Total expenses

80,251

86.2

76,392

81.6

74,712

89.7

Income before taxes

12,834

13.8

17,251

18.4

8,604

10.3

Provision for income taxes

4,935

5.3

6,931

7.4

3,183

3.8

Net income

$

7,899

8.5

%

$

10,320

11.0

%

$

5,421

6.5

%



Statistical
    Information

Our trading volume for each of the years presented was as
    follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Trading Volume Data (in billions)

U.S. high-grade

$

134.6

$

209.2

$

195.4

Eurobond

35.8

77.4

87.6

Other

56.0

73.3

56.6

Total

$

226.4

$

359.9

$

339.6

Number of U.S. Trading Days




Number of U.K. Trading Days




For volume reporting purposes, transactions in foreign
    currencies are converted to U.S. dollars at average monthly
    rates. Prior to September 1, 2008, no fees were charged on
    U.S. high-grade single-dealer inquiries. Such single-dealer
    inquiry trading volume amounted to $6.3 billion,
    $15.1 billion and $19.0 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Effective
    September 1, 2008, single-dealer inquiry trades are charged
    commissions in accordance with the U.S. high-grade
    corporate bond fee plan. Credit default swap trading volume data
    are included in Other. Trading volume data related to
    DealerAxess

®

bond trading between broker-dealer clients are included in
    either U.S. high-grade or Other trading volumes, as
    appropriate.

Our active institutional investor clients (firms that executed
    at least one trade in U.S. or European fixed-income
    securities through our electronic platform during the applicable
    year) and our broker-dealer clients as of December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:

December 31,




Institutional Investor Clients:

U.S. products




European products




Total




Broker-Dealer Clients




Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2007

Overview

Total revenues decreased by 0.6% to $93.1 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2008 from $93.6 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007. This decrease in total
    revenues was primarily due to a decline in U.S. high-grade
    revenues of $6.0 million, European high-grade revenues of
    $0.7 million and investment income of $1.8 million,
    offset by an increase in technology products and services
    revenues of $7.8 million. Technology products and services
    revenues reflect the impact of the Greenline and TWS
    acquisitions.

Total expenses increased by $3.9 million or 5.1% to
    $80.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $76.4 million for the year ended December 31,
    2007. The Greenline acquisition increased expenses by
    $7.2 million, including $3.5 million of employee
    compensation and benefits. The $3.9 million increase in
    total expenses was primarily due to higher employee compensation
    and benefits of $0.8 million, depreciation and amortization
    of $0.7 million, technology and communications of
    $0.8 million and marketing and advertising of
    $0.9 million.

Income before taxes decreased by $4.4 million or 25.6% to
    $12.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    from $17.3 million for the year ended December 31,
    2007. Net income decreased by $2.4 million or 23.5% to
    $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    from $10.3 million for the year ended December 31,
    2007.



Recent
    Developments

On February 4, 2009, we issued a press release announcing
    our results of operations for the three months and year ended
    December 31, 2008. The press release included consolidated
    condensed balance sheet data as of December 31, 2008 and
    2007. Subsequent to the issuance of the press release, we
    concluded that it was appropriate to adjust the deferred tax
    balance and goodwill associated resulting from the Greenline
    acquisition, which affected certain December 31, 2008
    balance sheet accounts. As a result, the deferred tax asset
    balance decreased by $0.7 million and the goodwill balance
    increased by $0.7 million from the amounts reported in the
    press release. The adjustment had no effect on the Consolidated
    Statements of Operations or earnings per share reported in the
    press release, nor did it affect our cash position.

Revenues

Our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
    2007, and the resulting dollar and percentage changes, were as
    follows:

Year Ended December 31,



% of

% of

$

$

Revenues

$

Revenues

Change

% Change

($ in thousands)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade

$

46,547

50.0

%

$

52,541

56.1

%

$

(5,994

)

(11.4

)%

Eurobond

18,146

19.5

18,828

20.1

(682

)

(3.6

)

Other

8,835

9.5

8,845

9.4

(10

)

(0.1

)

Total commissions

73,528

79.0

80,214

85.7

(6,686

)

(8.3

)

Technology products and services

8,555

9.2


0.8

7,813

1,053.0

Information and user access fees

6,025

6.5

5,877

6.3


2.5

Investment income

3,478

3.7

5,242

5.6

(1,764

)

(33.7

)

Other

1,499

1.6

1,568

1.7

(69

)

(4.4

)

Total revenues

$

93,085

100.0

%

$

93,643

100.0

%

$

(558

)

(0.6

)%

Commissions.

Total commissions decreased by
    $6.7 million or 8.3% to $73.5 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 from $80.2 million for 2007.
    The following table shows the extent to which the decrease in
    commissions for the year ended December 31, 2008 was
    attributable to changes in transaction volumes, transaction fees
    per million, monthly distribution fees and
    DealerAxess

®

minimum fees:

Change from Year Ended

December 31, 2007

U.S.

High-Grade

Eurobond

Other

Total

(In thousands)

Volume (decrease)

$

(6,277

)

$

(5,740

)

$

(2,088

)

$

(14,105

)

Transaction fee per million increase (decrease)

4,935

(937

)

2,078

6,076

Monthly distribution fees (decrease) increase

(1,173

)

5,995

—

4,822

DealerAxess

®

minimum fees (decrease)

(3,479

)

—

—

(3,479

)

Total commissions (decrease)

$

(5,994

)

$

(682

)

$

(10

)

$

(6,686

)



Our average fee per million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007 was as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Average Fee Per Million

U.S. high-grade

Transaction

$


$


Total



Eurobond

Transaction



Total



Other



All Products

Transaction



Total



U.S. high-grade volume decreased by 35.6% for the year
    ended December 31, 2008, compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2007. The decrease in U.S. high-grade
    volume was due primarily to a decline in the Company’s
    estimated market share of total U.S. high-grade corporate
    bond volume as reported by FINRA TRACE from 9.4% for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 to 6.6% for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, coupled with a decline in overall market
    volume as measured by FINRA TRACE. Estimated FINRA TRACE
    U.S. high-grade volume decreased by 9.0% from
    $2,227 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 to
    $2,028 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008.
    We believe the resultant lack of liquidity in the credit markets
    led institutional investors to reduce overall bond trading
    activity and conduct a higher percentage of their trades
    directly with their broker-dealer counterparties via the
    telephone, resulting in lower volumes on our platform. The
    U.S. high-grade distribution fees were $30.3 million
    for the year ended December, 2008, compared to
    $31.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
    The U.S. high-grade distribution fees may decrease as a
    result of recent merger and bankruptcy activity involving
    several of our broker-dealer clients. The
    DealerAxess

®

monthly minimum fees were zero and $3.5 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
    majority of the
    DealerAxess

®

minimum fee commitments expired as of June 30, 2007. The
    total U.S. high-grade average fee per million is calculated
    for each period presented using both the transaction fees and
    the monthly distribution fees, including the
    DealerAxess

®

monthly minimum fees, paid by our broker-dealer clients. The
    variable U.S. high-grade average transaction fee per
    million increased from $84 per million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 to $121 per million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 due to the longer maturity of trades
    executed on the platform, for which we charge higher commissions.

Eurobond volume decreased by 53.8%, net of the unfavorable
    effect of foreign currency changes, for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2007. During 2008, we believe that the
    European credit markets experienced market conditions similar to
    the U.S. On June 1, 2007, we introduced a new fee plan
    for European corporate bond trades. Similar to the
    U.S. high-grade plan, the new European high-grade corporate
    bond fee plan incorporates a monthly distribution fee and a
    transaction fee that is dependent on the type of bond traded and
    the maturity of the issue. The European high-grade distribution
    fee was $14.2 million for year ended December 31,
    2008, compared to $8.1 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. The total Eurobond average fee per
    million is calculated for each period presented using both the
    transaction fees and the monthly distribution fees paid by our
    broker-dealer clients. The European high-grade average
    transaction fee per million decreased from $138 per million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007 to $112 per million for
    the year ended December 31, 2008, principally from the
    introduction of the new European high-grade fee plan.

Other volume decreased by 23.5% for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2007. The decrease was primarily due to lower
    emerging market, agencies and credit default swap volume offset
    partially by increased high yield volume. Other average fee per
    million increased from $121 per million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 to $158 per million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 primarily due to a higher percentage of
    volume in products that carry higher fees per million,
    principally high yield.



Technology Products and Services.

Technology
    products and services revenues increased by $7.8 million to
    $8.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The
    increase was primarily a result of the Greenline acquisition.

Information and User Access Fees.

Information
    and user access fees increased by $0.1 million or 2.5% to
    $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Investment Income.

Investment income decreased
    by $1.8 million or 33.7% to $3.5 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 from $5.2 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007. This decrease was primarily due to
    lower interest rates.

Other.

Other revenues decreased by
    $0.1 million or 4.4% to $1.5 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 from $1.6 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007.

Expenses

Our expenses and expenses as a percentage of revenues for the
    years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the resulting
    dollar and percentage changes, were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



% of

% of

$

Revenues

$

Revenues

$ Change

% Change

($ in thousands)

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

$

43,810

47.1

%

$

43,051

46.0

%

$


1.8

%

Depreciation and amortization

7,879

8.5

7,170

7.7


9.9

Technology and communications

8,311

8.9

7,463

8.0


11.4

Professional and consulting fees

8,171

8.8

7,639

8.2


7.0

Occupancy

2,891

3.1

3,275

3.5

(384

)

(11.7

)

Marketing and advertising

2,781

3.0

1,905

2.0


46.0

General and administrative

6,408

6.9

5,889

6.3


8.8

Total expenses

$

80,251

86.2

%

$

76,392

81.6

%

$

3,859

5.1

%

Employee Compensation and Benefits.

Employee
    compensation and benefits increased by $0.8 million or 1.8%
    to $43.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $43.1 million for the year ended December 31,
    2007. This increase was primarily attributable to higher wages
    of $2.4 million, severance costs of $1.0 million and
    stock-based compensation expense of $1.4 million, offset by
    reduced incentive compensation of $3.6 million. The higher
    wages were primarily a result of the Greenline acquisition. The
    total number of employees increased to 185 as of
    December 31, 2008 from 182 as of December 31, 2007. As
    a percentage of total revenues, employee compensation and
    benefits expense increased to 47.1% for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 from 46.0% for the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

Depreciation and Amortization.

Depreciation
    and amortization expense increased by $0.7 million or 9.9%
    to $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $7.2 million for the year ended December 31,
    2007. An increase in amortization of intangible assets of
    $1.3 million and TWS impairment charge of $0.7 million
    were offset by a decline in depreciation and amortization of
    hardware and software development costs of $1.3 million.
    The intangible asset amortization increase was due to the
    $8.3 million of definite-life intangibles created in 2008
    in connection with the Greenline acquisition. The TWS impairment
    charge was recorded to reflect negative current period operating
    results and reduced revenue expectations for connectivity
    solutions principally delivered to broker-dealers. For the year
    ended December 31, 2008, we capitalized $2.4 million
    of software development costs and $1.7 million of computer
    and related equipment purchases.

Technology and Communications.

Technology and
    communications expense increased by $0.8 million or 11.4%
    to $8.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
    from $7.5 million for the year ended December 31,
    2007. This increase was attributable to higher expenses
    associated with the purchase of production and market data.



Professional and Consulting Fees.

Professional
    and consulting fees increased by $0.5 million or 7.0% to
    $8.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The
    increase was principally due to higher information technology
    consultant costs of $0.7 million and audit and tax fees of
    $0.2 million, offset by lower recruiting fees of
    $0.5 million.

Occupancy.

Occupancy costs decreased by
    $0.4 million or 11.7% to $2.9 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 from $3.3 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007. The decline was principally due to
    exiting certain leased office space in 2008.

Marketing and Advertising.

Marketing and
    advertising expense increased by $0.9 million or 46.0% to
    $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    primarily due to higher travel and entertainment expenses.

General and Administrative.

General and
    administrative expense increased by $0.5 million or 8.8% to
    $6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
    $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    primarily due to increased charges for doubtful accounts of
    $0.8 million.

Provision
    for Income Tax

We recorded an income tax provision of $4.9 million and
    $6.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
    2007, respectively. The decrease in the tax provision was
    primarily attributable to the $4.4 million decrease in
    pre-tax income. With the exception of the payment of certain
    foreign and state and local taxes, the provision for income
    taxes was a non-cash expense since we had available net
    operating loss carryforwards and tax credits to offset the cash
    payment of taxes.

Our consolidated effective tax rate for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 was 38.5% compared to 40.2% for the year
    ended December 31, 2007. The 2008 effective tax rate
    reflects a higher portion of earnings generated in lower tax
    rate jurisdictions. The 2007 provision includes an adjustment to
    the deferred tax asset balance of $0.5 million to reflect
    the tax rate anticipated to be in effect when the temporary
    differences are expected to reverse, as well as changes in
    enacted state and foreign tax rates. Our consolidated effective
    tax rate can vary from period to period depending on, among
    other factors, the geographic and business mix of our earnings
    and changes in tax legislation and tax rates. Due to our net
    deferred tax asset balance, a decrease in tax rates results in a
    reduction in our deferred tax balance and an increase in tax
    expense.

As of December 31, 2008, we had net operating loss
    carryforwards of $105.1 million and tax credit
    carryforwards of $3.3 million for income tax purposes. The
    deferred tax asset of $35.7 million at December 31,
    2008, includes a valuation allowance of $0.6 million
    arising from certain tax credit and foreign tax loss
    carryforwards. This valuation allowance was deemed appropriate
    due to available evidence indicating that some of the deferred
    tax assets might not be realized in future years.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2006

Overview

Total revenues increased by $10.3 million or 12.4% to
    $93.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $83.3 million for the year ended December 31,
    2006. This increase in total revenues was primarily due to
    increases in total commissions of $8.8 million, technology
    products and services of $0.7 million and investment income
    of $0.6 million.

Total expenses increased by $1.7 million or 2.2% to
    $76.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $74.7 million for the year ended December 31,
    2006. This increase was primarily due to higher employee
    compensation and benefits of $1.0 million.

Income before taxes increased by $8.6 million or 100.5% to
    $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    from $8.6 million for the year ended December 31,
    2006. Net income increased by $4.9 million or 90.4% to
    $10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    from $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.



Revenues

Our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
    2006, and the resulting dollar and percentage changes, were as
    follows:

Year Ended December 31,



% of

% of

$

Revenues

$

Revenues

$ Change

% Change

($ in thousands)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade

$

52,541

56.1

%

$

47,752

57.3

%

$

4,789

10.0

%

Eurobond

18,828

20.1

15,368

18.4

3,460

22.5

Other

8,845

9.4

8,310

10.0


6.4

Total commissions

80,214

85.7

71,430

85.7

8,784

12.3

Technology products and services


0.8

—

0.0


N/A

Information and user access fees

5,877

6.3

5,477

6.6


7.3

Investment income

5,242

5.6

4,595

5.5


14.1

Other

1,568

1.7

1,814

2.2

(246

)

(13.6

)

Total revenues

$

93,643

100.0

%

$

83,316

100.0

%

$

10,327

12.4

%

Commissions.

Total commissions increased by
    $8.8 million or 12.3% to $80.2 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $71.4 million for 2006.
    The following table shows the extent to which the increase in
    commissions for the year ended December 31, 2007 was
    attributable to changes in transaction volumes, transaction fees
    per million, monthly distribution fees and
    DealerAxess

®

minimum fees:

Change from Year Ended

December 31, 2006

U.S.

High-Grade

Eurobond

Other

Total

(In thousands)

Volume increase (decrease)

$

1,069

$

(1,789

)

$

2,452

$

1,731

Transaction fee per million increase (decrease)

1,399

(2,899

)

(1,917

)

(3,416

)

Monthly distribution fees increase

1,675

8,148

—

9,823

DealerAxess

®

minimum fees increase


—

—


Total commissions increase

$

4,789

$

3,460

$


$

8,784



Our average fee per million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006 was as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Average Fee Per Million

U.S. high-grade

Transaction

$


$


Total



Eurobond

Transaction



Total



Other



All Products

Transaction



Total



U.S. high-grade volume increased by 7.1% for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase in U.S. high-grade
    volume was due primarily to an improvement in the Company’s
    estimated market share of total U.S. high-grade corporate
    bond volume as reported by FINRA TRACE from 8.5% for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 to 9.4% for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, offset by a decline in overall market
    volume as measured by FINRA TRACE. Estimated FINRA TRACE
    U.S. high-grade volume decreased by 3.0% from
    $2,295 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 to
    $2,227 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007.
    We believe that the credit market turmoil experienced in the
    second half of 2007 negatively impacted overall FINRA TRACE
    volume. The fixed monthly U.S. high-grade distribution fees
    were $31.5 million for the year ended December, 2007,
    compared to $29.8 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The
    DealerAxess

®

monthly minimum fees were $3.5 million and
    $2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. The majority of the
    DealerAxess

®

minimum fee commitments expired as of June 30, 2007. The
    variable U.S. high-grade average fee per million increased
    from $77 per million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    to $84 per million for the year ended December 31, 2007 due
    to the longer maturity of trades executed on the platform, for
    which we charge higher commissions.

European high-grade volume decreased by 11.6%, net of the
    favorable effect of foreign currency changes, for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. During the second half of 2007, we
    believe that the European credit markets experienced market
    conditions similar to the U.S. On June 1, 2007, we
    introduced a new fee plan for European high-grade corporate bond
    trades. Similar to the U.S. high-grade plan, the new
    European high-grade corporate bond fee plan incorporates a fixed
    monthly fee and a variable fee that is dependent on the type of
    bond traded and the maturity of the issue. The fixed monthly
    European high-grade distribution fee was $8.1 million for
    year ended December 31, 2007. The European high-grade
    average fee per million decreased from $175 per million for the
    year ended December 31, 2006 to $138 per million the year
    ended December 31, 2007 resulted principally from the
    introduction of the new European high-grade fee plan.

Other volume increased by 29.5% for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily due to higher
    credit default swap, high-yield and agencies volume. Other
    average fee per million declined from $147 per million for the
    year ended December 31, 2006 to $121 per million for the
    year ended December 31, 2007 primarily due to higher volume
    in products that carry lower fees per million, including credit
    default swap indexes and agencies.

Technology Products and Services.

Revenues for
    technology products and services in 2007 primarily relate to
    $0.6 million in revenue recognized under a technology
    development contract with a broker-dealer client.

Information and User Access Fees.

Information
    and user access fees increased by $0.4 million or 7.3% to
    $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
    This increase was primarily due to an increase in the number of
    data sales and higher pricing for our Corporate
    BondTicker

tm

service.



Investment Income.

Investment income increased
    by $0.6 million or 14.1% to $5.2 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $4.6 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006. This increase was primarily due to
    higher cash and cash equivalents and securities

available-for-sale

balances and a rise in interest rates during the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

Other.

Other revenues decreased by
    $0.2 million or 13.6% to $1.6 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $1.8 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006. This decrease was attributable to
    a decline in the amortization of previously received license
    fees. We anticipate that license fees will be an insignificant
    source of revenues for us on a going-forward basis.

Expenses

Our expenses and expenses as a percentage of revenues for the
    years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the resulting
    dollar and percentage changes, were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



% of

% of

$

Revenues

$

Revenues

$ Change

% Change

($ in thousands)

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

$

43,051

46.0

%

$

42,078

50.5

%

$


2.3

%

Depreciation and amortization

7,170

7.7

6,728

8.1


6.6

Technology and communications

7,463

8.0

7,704

9.2

(241

)

(3.1

)

Professional and consulting fees

7,639

8.2

8,072

9.7

(433

)

(5.4

)

Occupancy

3,275

3.5

3,033

3.6


8.0

Marketing and advertising

1,905

2.0

1,769

2.1


7.7

General and administrative

5,889

6.3

5,328

6.4


10.5

Total expenses

$

76,392

81.6

%

$

74,712

89.7

%

$

1,680

2.2

%

Employee Compensation and Benefits.

Employee
    compensation and benefits increased by $1.0 million or 2.3%
    to $43.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $42.1 million for the year ended December 31,
    2006. This increase was primarily attributable to higher
    incentive compensation costs of $2.6 million and employee
    benefits and payroll taxes of $1.0 million, offset by a
    reduction in employee severance costs of $1.3 million,
    salary expense of $1.1 million and stock compensation costs
    of $0.7 million. The total number of employees increased to
    182 as of December 31, 2007 from 176 as of
    December 31, 2006. As a percentage of total revenues,
    employee compensation and benefits expense decreased to 46.0%
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from 50.5% for the
    year ended December 31, 2006.

Depreciation and Amortization.

Depreciation
    and amortization expense increased by $0.4 million or 6.6%
    to $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $6.7 million for the year ended December 31,
    2006. This increase was attributable to increased amortization
    of capitalized software development costs for our credit default
    swap and
    DealerAxess

®

products. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we
    capitalized $3.4 million of software development costs and
    $1.5 million of computer and related equipment purchases.

Technology and Communications.

Technology and
    communications expense decreased by $0.2 million or 3.1% to
    $7.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
    This decrease was attributable to lower maintenance and office
    hardware costs.

Professional and Consulting Fees.

Professional
    and consulting fees decreased by $0.4 million or 5.4% to
    $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
    This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in audit and tax
    fees of $0.9 million and technology and non-technology
    consulting costs of $0.6 million, offset by higher
    recruiting fees of $0.7 million and legal costs of
    $0.6 million.



Occupancy.

Occupancy costs increased by
    $0.2 million or 8.0% to $3.3 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $3.0 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to rent expense for
    additional leased space in New York City.

Marketing and Advertising.

Marketing and
    advertising expense increased by $0.1 million or 7.7% to
    $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
    This increase was primarily due to higher promotion and public
    relations costs.

General and Administrative.

General and
    administrative expense increased by $0.6 million or 10.5%
    to $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $5.3 million for the year ended December 31,
    2006. This increase was primarily due to higher travel and
    entertainment expenses of $0.5 million and relocation
    expenses of $0.4 million, offset by reduced sales tax of
    $0.4 million and provision for bad debts of
    $0.2 million.

Provision
    for Income Tax

We recorded an income tax provision of $6.9 million and
    $3.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. The increase in the tax provision was
    primarily attributable to the $8.6 million increase in
    pre-tax income. With the exception of the payment of certain
    foreign taxes, the provision for income taxes was a non-cash
    expense since we had available net operating loss carryforwards
    and tax credits to offset the cash payment of taxes.

Our consolidated effective tax rate for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 was 40.2% compared to 37.0% for the year
    ended December 31, 2006. The 2007 provision includes an
    adjustment to the deferred tax asset balance of
    $0.5 million to reflect the tax rate anticipated to be in
    effect when the temporary differences are expected to reverse,
    as well as changes in enacted state and foreign tax rates. Our
    consolidated effective tax rate can vary from period to period
    depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business
    mix of our earnings and changes in tax legislation and tax
    rates. Due to our net deferred tax asset balance, a decrease in
    tax rates results in a reduction in our deferred tax balance and
    an increase in tax expense.

Quarterly
    Results of Operations

Our quarterly results have varied significantly as a result of:

•

changes in trading volume due to market conditions, a decrease
    in the number of trading days in certain quarters, and
    seasonality effects caused by slow-downs in trading activity
    during certain periods;

•

increases in the number of broker-dealers and institutional
    investors using our trading platform as well as increased usage
    by existing clients;

•

expansion of the products we offer to our clients; and

•

variance in our expenses.



The following table sets forth certain consolidated quarterly
    income statement data for the eight quarters ended
    December 31, 2008. In our opinion, this unaudited
    information has been prepared on a basis consistent with our
    annual financial statements and includes all adjustments
    (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary for
    a fair statement of the unaudited quarterly data. This
    information should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated
    Financial Statements and related Notes included in this Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K.

The results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily
    indicative of results that we may achieve for any subsequent
    periods.

Three Months Ended

Mar 31,

Jun 30,

Sep 30,

Dec 31,

Mar 31,

Jun 30,

Sep 30,

Dec 31,









(In thousands)

(Unaudited)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade(1)

$

13,682

$

14,532

$

11,982

$

12,345

$

12,402

$

12,554

$

10,777

$

10,814

Eurobond(2)

4,754

4,456

4,889

4,729

4,589

5,120

4,427

4,010

Other(3)

2,257

2,468

2,107

2,013

2,304

2,464

2,015

2,052

Total commissions

20,693

21,456

18,978

19,087

19,295

20,138

17,219

16,876

Technology products and services(4)






2,676

2,646

2,466

Information and user access fees(5)

1,354

1,468

1,535

1,520

1,481

1,442

1,562

1,540

Interest income(6)

1,222

1,258

1,332

1,430





Other(7)









Total revenues

23,765

25,304

22,198

22,376

22,939

25,637

22,681

21,828

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

11,503

11,010

10,258

10,280

11,018

11,576

11,173

10,043

Depreciation and amortization

1,911

1,879

1,686

1,694

1,780

1,816

2,494

1,789

Technology and communications

1,763

1,935

1,897

1,868

2,106

2,048

2,007

2,151

Professional and consulting fees

1,836

1,786

1,883

2,134

2,153

2,521

1,822

1,675

Occupancy









Marketing and advertising









General and administrative

1,181

1,320

1,481

1,907

1,568

1,495

1,781

1,564

Total expenses

19,296

19,265

18,555

19,276

19,975

20,878

20,583

18,816

Income before income taxes

4,469

6,039

3,643

3,100

2,964

4,759

2,098

3,012

Provision for income taxes

2,019

2,487

1,233

1,192

1,368

1,911


1,076

Net income

$

2,450

$

3,552

$

2,410

$

1,908

$

1,596

$

2,848

$

1,519

$

1,936



The following tables set forth trading volume and average fee
    per million traded for the eight quarters ended
    December 31, 2008.

Three Months Ended

Mar 31,

Jun 30,

Sep 30,

Dec 31,

Mar 31,

Jun 30,

Sep 30,

Dec 31,









(In billions)

(Unaudited)

Trading Volume Data

U.S. high-grade

$

60.8

$

67.5

$

39.9

$

40.9

$

38.8

$

42.7

$

27.5

$

25.6

Eurobond

28.3

23.8

14.8

10.6

8.1

11.8

8.6

7.2

Other

15.3

20.1

21.0

16.9

17.6

15.3

12.9

10.4

Total

$

104.4

$

111.4

$

75.7

$

68.4

$

64.5

$

69.8

$

49.0

$

43.2

Three Months Ended

Mar 31,

Jun 30,

Sep 30,

Dec 31,

Mar 31,

Jun 30,

Sep 30,

Dec 31,









(Unaudited)

Average Fee Per Million

U.S. high-grade

Transaction

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Total

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Eurobond

Transaction

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Total

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Other

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


All Products

Transaction

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Total

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Number of U.S. trading days









Number of U.K. trading days









Liquidity
    and Capital Resources

During the past three years, we have met our funding
    requirements through cash on hand, internally generated funds
    and the issuance of Series B Preferred Stock. Cash and cash
    equivalents and securities available-for-sale totaled
    $142.6 million at December 31, 2008,
    $124.3 million at December 31, 2007 and
    $131.0 million at December 31, 2006. Other than a
    capital lease obligation amounting to $0.7 million as of
    December 31, 2008, we have no long-term or short-term debt
    and do not maintain bank lines of credit.



Our cash flows were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

27,634

$

29,120

$

17,101

Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities

(22,499

)

(11,179

)

4,231

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

30,311

(27,015

)

2,818

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash

(834

)

(215

)

(339

)

Net increase (decrease) for the period

$

34,612

$

(9,289

)

$

23,811

Operating
    Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities of $27.6 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 consisted of net
    income of $7.9 million, adjusted for non-cash charges,
    primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of
    $7.9 million, stock-based compensation expense of
    $7.1 million, deferred taxes of $4.8 million and
    provision for bad debts of $1.3 million, offset by an
    increase in cash used for working capital of $1.3 million.
    The use of working capital primarily resulted from a decrease in
    accrued employee compensation of $4.2 million and a
    decrease in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other
    liabilities of $3.2 million, offset by a decrease in
    accounts receivable of $5.8 million.

Net cash provided by operating activities of $29.1 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 consisted of net
    income of $10.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges,
    primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of
    $7.2 million, stock-based compensation expense of
    $5.6 million and deferred taxes of $4.7 million and a
    decrease in working capital of $0.9 million. The decrease
    in working capital primarily resulted from an increase in
    accrued employee compensation of $1.5 million, offset by an
    increase in accounts receivable of $1.4 million.

Net cash provided by operating activities of $17.1 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 consisted of net
    income of $5.4 million, adjusted for non-cash charges,
    primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization of
    $6.7 million, stock-based compensation expense of
    $6.4 million, deferred taxes of $0.9 million and a
    provision for bad debts of $0.7 million, offset by an
    increase in cash used for working capital of $3.0 million.
    The use of working capital primarily resulted from an increase
    in accounts receivable of $3.3 million.

Investing
    Activities

Net cash used in investing activities of $22.5 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily consisted of
    $34.9 million for the acquisition of Greenline, net
    maturities of securities available-for-sale of
    $16.3 million, purchases of furniture, equipment and
    leasehold improvements of $1.7 million and capitalization
    of software development costs of $2.4 million.

Net cash used in investing activities of $11.2 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily consisted of the
    acquisition of TWS for $3.1 million, net purchases of
    securities available-for-sale of $2.5 million, purchases of
    furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements of
    $1.5 million and capitalization of software development
    costs of $3.4 million.

Net cash provided by investing activities of $4.2 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 consisted of net
    proceeds of securities available-for-sale of $11.0 million,
    offset by purchases of furniture, equipment and leasehold
    improvements of $2.7 million and capitalization of software
    development costs of $4.1 million.

Financing
    Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities of $30.3 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily consisted of
    the net proceeds from the issuance of the Series B
    Preferred Stock and related common stock purchase warrants of
    $33.5 million, offset by the purchase of treasury stock of
    $2.8 million.



Net cash used in financing activities of $27.0 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily consisted of
    $34.6 million for the purchase of treasury stock, offset by
    proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $5.2 million
    and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of
    $2.2 million.

Net cash provided by financing activities of $2.8 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 consisted of proceeds
    from the exercise of stock options of $3.8 million and
    excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of
    $1.7 million, offset by the purchase of treasury stock of
    $2.7 million.

Other
    Factors Influencing Liquidity and Capital
    Resources

We are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, three of which
    are also our stockholders, who are not restricted from buying
    and selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their
    own proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional
    investors. None of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or
    otherwise obligated to continue to use our electronic trading
    platform. The loss of, or a significant reduction in the use of
    our electronic platform by, our broker-dealer clients could
    reduce our cash flows, affect our liquidity and have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

We believe that our current resources are adequate to meet our
    liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at
    least the next 12 months. However, our future liquidity and
    capital requirements will depend on a number of factors,
    including expenses associated with product development and
    expansion and new business opportunities that are intended to
    further diversify our revenue stream. We may also acquire or
    invest in technologies, business ventures or products that are
    complementary to our business. In the event we require any
    additional financing, it will take the form of equity or debt
    financing. Any additional equity offerings may result in
    dilution to our stockholders. Any debt financings, if available
    at all particularly in light of the recent economic turmoil
    which has, among other consequences, led to a depression in
    stock prices and the tightening of available credit, may involve
    restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of
    additional capital and other financial and operational matters
    related to our business.

We have three regulated subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation,
    MarketAxess Europe Limited and MarketAxess Canada Ltd.
    MarketAxess Corporation is a registered broker-dealer in the
    U.S., MarketAxess Europe Limited is a registered multilateral
    trading facility in the U.K. and MarketAxess Canada Ltd. is a
    registered Alternative Trading System in the Province of
    Ontario. As such, they are subject to minimum regulatory capital
    requirements imposed by their respective market regulators that
    are intended to ensure general financial soundness and liquidity
    based on certain minimum capital requirements. The relevant
    regulations prohibit a registrant from repaying borrowings from
    its parent or affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to
    its parent or affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions
    that result in a significant reduction in its regulatory net
    capital position without prior notification to or approval from
    its principal regulator. The capital structures of our
    subsidiaries are designed to provide each with capital and
    liquidity consistent with its business and regulatory
    requirements. The following table sets forth the capital
    requirements, as defined, that the Company’s subsidiaries
    were required to maintain as of December 31, 2008:

MarketAxess

MarketAxess

MarketAxess

Corporation

Europe Limited

Canada Limited

(In thousands)

Net capital

$

25,194

$

15,965

$


Minimum net capital required


2,550


Excess net capital

$

24,304

$

13,415

$


MarketAxess Corporation operates an anonymous matching service
    for its broker-dealer clients and during 2008 extended its
    trading counterparty role to include the execution of certain
    bond transactions between institutional investor and
    broker-dealer clients. MarketAxess Corporation executes all such
    trades on a riskless principal basis, which are cleared and
    settled by an independent clearing broker. Under a securities
    clearing agreement with the independent third party, MarketAxess
    Corporation maintains a collateral deposit with the clearing
    broker in the form of cash or U.S. government securities.
    As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the collateral deposit
    included in securities and cash provided as collateral in the
    Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition was
    $0.5 million. MarketAxess Corporation is exposed to credit
    risk in the event a counterparty does not fulfill its



obligation to complete a transaction. Pursuant to the terms of
    the securities clearing agreement between MarketAxess
    Corporation and the independent clearing broker, the clearing
    broker has the right to charge MarketAxess Corporation for
    losses resulting from a counterparty’s failure to fulfill
    its contractual obligations. The losses are not capped at a
    maximum amount and apply to all trades executed through the
    clearing broker. At December 31, 2008, MarketAxess
    Corporation had not recorded any liabilities with regard to this
    right.

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contracts that
    contain a variety of representations, warranties and general
    indemnifications. Our maximum exposure from any claims under
    these arrangements is unknown, as this would involve claims that
    have not yet occurred. However, based on past experience, we
    expect the risk of loss to be remote.

Effects
    of Inflation

Because the majority of our assets are liquid in nature, they
    are not significantly affected by inflation. However, the rate
    of inflation may affect our expenses, such as employee
    compensation, office leasing costs and communications expenses,
    which may not be readily recoverable in the prices of our
    services. To the extent inflation results in rising interest
    rates and has other adverse effects on the securities markets,
    it may adversely affect our financial position and results of
    operations.

Contractual
    Obligations and Commitments

As of December 31, 2008, we had the following contractual
    obligations and commitments:

Payments due by period

Less than

More than

Total

1 year

1-3 years

3-5 years

5 years

(In thousands)

Operating leases

$

7,507

$

2,270

$

1,775

$

1,247

$

2,215

Capital leases





—

Earn-out obligation

1,368

1,368

—

—

—

Foreign currency forward contract

19,777

19,777

—

—

—

$

29,476

$

23,583

$

2,111

$

1,567

$

2,215

As of December 31, 2008, we had unrecognized tax benefits
    of $2.7 million. Due to the nature of the underlying
    positions, it is not currently possible to schedule the future
    payment obligations by period. In addition, in connection with
    the acquisition of Greenline, the sellers are eligible to
    receive up to an additional of $1.5 million in cash,
    subject to Greenline attaining certain earn-out targets in 2009.
    The amount of the earn-out ultimately payable, if any, is
    currently unknown.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”).
    SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
    measuring fair value and requires enhanced disclosures about
    fair value measurements. Effective January 1, 2008, we
    adopted SFAS 157 for all financial assets and liabilities
    and for non-financial assets and liabilities recognized or
    disclosed at fair value at least annually. In February 2008, the
    FASB issued Staff Position

No. 157-2,

which delayed the effective date of SFAS 157 to fiscal
    years beginning after November 15, 2008 for non-financial
    assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or
    disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. We are currently
    evaluating the impact of SFAS 157 on valuation of all other
    non-financial assets and liabilities. In October 2008, the FASB
    issued FASB Staff Position

No. 157-3,

“Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset Is Not Active” (“FSP

No. 157-3”),

to provide guidance on determining the fair value of financial
    instruments in inactive markets. FSP

No. 157-3

became effective for us upon issuance. The adoption of
    SFAS 157 and FSP

No. 157-3

had no material effect on the Consolidated Statements of
    Financial Condition and Consolidated Statements of Operations.



In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
    “Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159
    permits companies to elect to measure eligible financial
    instruments, commitments and certain other arrangements at fair
    value at specified election dates, with changes in fair value
    recognized in earnings at each subsequent reporting period. We
    did not elect the fair value option for any of its existing
    financial instruments. Accordingly, adoption of SFAS 159
    had no material effect on the Consolidated Statements of
    Financial Condition and Consolidated Statements of Operations.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised), “Business Combinations”
    (“SFAS 141R”). The standard changes the
    accounting for business combinations, including the measurement
    of acquirer shares issued in consideration for a business
    combination, the recognition of contingent consideration, the
    accounting for pre-acquisition gain and loss contingencies, the
    recognition of capitalized in-process research and development,
    the accounting for acquisition-related restructuring cost
    accruals, the treatment of acquisition-related transaction costs
    and the recognition of changes in the acquirer’s income tax
    valuation allowance. SFAS 141R is effective for fiscal
    years beginning after December 15, 2008.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
    “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51”
    (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 160 establishes
    accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling
    interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a
    subsidiary. SFAS 160 is effective for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008. We do not expect
    SFAS 160 to have a material impact on its Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,
    “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities — An Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 133” (‘” SFAS 161”).
    SFAS 161 expands the disclosure requirements for derivative
    instruments and hedging activities. SFAS 161 is effective
    for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. We do
    not expect SFAS 161 to have a material impact on its
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse
    changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and
    foreign currency exchange rates.

Market
    Risk

The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky
    and volatile and is directly affected by many national and
    international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of
    these factors may cause a substantial decline in the
    U.S. and global financial services markets, resulting in
    reduced trading volume and revenues. These events could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.

As of December 31, 2008, we had a $35.2 million
    investment in securities available-for-sale. Adverse movements,
    such as a 10% decrease in the value of these securities or a
    downturn or disruption in the markets for these securities,
    could result in a substantial loss. In addition, principal gains
    and losses resulting from these securities could on occasion
    have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our
    financial condition and results of operations for any particular
    reporting period.

See Item 1A

. Risk Factors

, “Risks Related to
    Our Industry —

Economic, political and market
    factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services
    and harm our business, and our profitability could
    suffer

.”

Interest
    Rate Risk

Interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate
    changes with respect to the money market instruments,
    U.S. Treasury obligations and short-term fixed-income
    securities in which we invest. As of December 31, 2008, our
    cash and cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale
    amounted to $142.6 million and were primarily invested in
    money market instruments, federal agency issues and municipal
    securities. We do not maintain an inventory of bonds that are
    traded on our platform.



Derivative
    Risk

Our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the
    foreign currency forward contract market. We use this market to
    mitigate our U.S. dollar versus Pound Sterling exposure
    that arises from the activities of our U.K. subsidiary. As of
    December 31, 2008, the notional value of our foreign
    currency forward contracts was $20.0 million. We do not
    speculate in any derivative instruments.

Credit
    Risk

We act as a riskless principal through our subsidiary,
    MarketAxess Corporation, in certain transactions that we execute
    between clients. We act as an intermediary in these transactions
    by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in
    matching back-to-back bond trades, which are then settled
    through a third-party clearing organization. Settlement
    typically occurs within one to three trading days after the
    trade date. Cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon
    receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded.

We are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading
    counterparty to our clients. We are exposed to the risk that
    third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will
    not perform their obligations. These parties may default on
    their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity,
    operational failure or other reasons. Adverse movements in the
    prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions
    can increase our risk. Where the unmatched position or failure
    to deliver is prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital
    charges required to be taken by us. The policies and procedures
    we use to manage this credit risk are new and untested. There
    can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will
    effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk.



Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.

MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

INDEX TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Management’s Report on Internal Control
    Over Financial Reporting


Audited Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm


Consolidated Statements of Financial
    Condition — As of December 31, 2008 and 2007


Consolidated Statements of Operations —
    For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006


Consolidated Statements of Changes in
    Stockholders’ Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive
    Loss — For the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows —
    For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The unaudited supplementary data regarding consolidated
    quarterly income statement data are incorporated by reference to
    the information set forth in Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations,” in the section
    captioned “Quarterly Results of Operations.”



MANAGEMENT’S
    REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management of MarketAxess Holdings Inc. is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting as defined in

Rules 13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles. The Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting includes those policies and
    procedures that:

(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
    reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
    transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;

(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the Company; and

(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
    of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect
    on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, management
    used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission in

Internal
    Control — Integrated Framework

.

Based on our assessment and those criteria, management concluded
    that the Company maintained effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2008.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.



Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MarketAxess Holdings Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
    the financial position of MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and its
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results
    of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity
    with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
    States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained,
    in all material respects, effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
    criteria established in

Internal Control —
    Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company’s management is responsible for these financial
    statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
    accompanying “Management’s Report on Internal Control
    over Financial Reporting.” Our responsibility is to express
    opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting based on our
    integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with
    the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
    statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
    supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/

PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 25, 2009



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

As of December 31



(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)

ASSETS

Cash and cash equivalents

$

107,323

$

72,711

Securities available-for-sale

35,227

51,579

Securities and cash provided as collateral

4,316

4,455

Accounts receivable, including receivables from related parties
    of $1,930 and $6,290, respectively, net of allowance of $1,012
    and $912 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively

13,283

18,397

Furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements, net of
    accumulated depreciation and amortization

3,369

2,931

Software development costs, net of accumulated amortization

4,521

5,759

Goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization

39,546

3,389

Prepaid expenses and other assets

3,177

1,938

Deferred tax assets, net

35,666

37,207

Total assets

$

246,428

$

198,366

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Liabilities

Accrued employee compensation

$

10,439

$

14,311

Deferred revenue

2,303


Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities,
    including payables to related parties of $11 and $177 as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively

8,878

8,832

Total liabilities

21,620

23,969

Commitments and Contingencies (Note 13)

Series B Preferred Stock, $.001 par value,
    35,000 shares authorized, issued and outstanding as of
    December 31, 2008, liquidation preference of $1,000 per
    share

30,315

—

Stockholders’ equity

Preferred stock, $0.001 par value, 4,855,000 shares
    authorized, no shares issued and outstanding as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007

—

—

Series A Preferred Stock, $0.001 par value,
    110,000 shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding
    as of December 31, 2008 and 2007

—

—

Common stock voting, $0.003 par value,
    110,000,000 shares authorized as of December 31, 2008
    and 2007; 33,971,309 shares and 33,082,371 shares
    issued as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively



Common stock non-voting, $0.003 par value,
    10,000,000 shares authorized and 2,585,654 shares
    issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and 2007



Additional paid-in capital

305,508

289,988

Receivable for common stock subscribed

(951

)

(834

)

Treasury stock — Common stock voting, at cost,
    2,864,120 shares and 2,642,714 shares as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively

(40,000

)

(37,227

)

Accumulated deficit

(68,855

)

(76,754

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(1,320

)

(884

)

Total stockholders’ equity

194,493

174,397

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

246,428

$

198,366

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade, including $7,746, $21,840 and $23,701 from
    related parties for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively

$

46,547

$

52,541

$

47,752

Eurobond, including $3,207, $4,960 and $6,630 from related
    parties for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively

18,146

18,828

15,368

Other, including $1,513, $4,641 and $5,295 from related parties
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively

8,835

8,845

8,310

Total commissions

73,528

80,214

71,430

Technology products and services, including $33, $0 and $0 from
    related parties for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively

8,555


—

Information and user access fees, including $276, $798 and
    $1,177 from related parties for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively

6,025

5,877

5,477

Investment income, including $1,165, $2,062 and $1,007 from
    related parties for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively

3,478

5,242

4,595

Other, including $169, $452, and $510 from related parties for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively

1,499

1,568

1,814

Total revenues

93,085

93,643

83,316

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

43,810

43,051

42,078

Depreciation and amortization

7,879

7,170

6,728

Technology and communications

8,311

7,463

7,704

Professional and consulting fees

8,171

7,639

8,072

Occupancy

2,891

3,275

3,033

Marketing and advertising

2,781

1,905

1,769

General and administrative, including $57, $207 and $64 to
    related parties for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively

6,408

5,889

5,328

Total expenses

80,251

76,392

74,712

Income before income taxes

12,834

17,251

8,604

Provision for income taxes

4,935

6,931

3,183

Net income

$

7,899

$

10,320

$

5,421

Net income per common share

Basic

$

0.23

$

0.32

$

0.18

Diluted

$

0.22

$

0.30

$

0.15

Weighted average shares outstanding

Basic

32,830,923

32,293,036

30,563,437

Diluted

35,737,379

34,453,195

35,077,348

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND
    ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS

Treasury

Common

Receivable

Stock-

Accumulated

Common

Stock

Additional

for Common

Common

Other

Total

Stock

Non-

Paid-In

Unearned

Stock

Stock

Accumulated

Comprehensive

Stockholders’

Voting

Voting

Warrants

Capital

Compensation

Subscribed

Voting

Deficit

Loss

Equity

(In thousands)

Balance at December 31, 2005

$


$


$

17,693

$

249,122

$

(2,021

)

$

(1,042

)

$

—

$

(92,495

)

$

(482

)

$

170,864

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

5,421

—

5,421

Cumulative translation adjustment and foreign currency exchange
    hedge, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(327

)

(327

)

Unrealized net gains on securities available-for-sale, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—



Total comprehensive income

5,170

Stock-based compensation


—

—

6,432

—

—

—

—

6,435

Exercise of stock options and grants of restricted stock


—

—

3,792

—

—

—

—

—

3,795

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

—

—

—

1,674

—

—

—

—

—

1,674

Conversion from non-voting to voting common stock


(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

(6,035

)

6,031

—

—

—

—

—

—

Purchase of treasury stock

(2,653

)

(2,653

)

Reclassification of unearned compensation related to
    implementation of SFAS 123R

—

—

—

(2,021

)

2,021

—

—

—

—

—

Balance at December 31, 2006



11,658

265,030

—

(1,042

)

(2,653

)

(87,074

)

(733

)

185,285

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

10,320

—

10,320

Cumulative translation adjustment and foreign currency exchange
    hedge, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(213

)

(213

)

Unrealized net gains on securities available-for-sale, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—



Total comprehensive income

10,169

Effect of adoption of FIN 48

—

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Stock-based compensation

—

—

—

5,634

—

—

—

—

—

5,634

Exercise of stock options and grants of restricted stock


—

—

5,189

—

—

—

—

—

5,191

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

—

—

—

2,160

—

—

—

—

—

2,160

Conversion from non-voting to voting common stock


(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

(11,658

)

11,651

—

—

—

—

—

—

Repayment of promissory notes

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—


Purchase of treasury stock

—

—

—

—

—

—

(34,574

)

—

—

(34,574

)

Balance at December 31, 2007



—

289,988

—

(834

)

(37,227

)

(76,754

)

(884

)

174,397

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

7,899

—

7,899

Cumulative translation adjustment and foreign currency exchange
    hedge, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(410

)

(410

)

Unrealized net loss on securities available-for-sale, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(26

)

(26

)

Total comprehensive income

7,463

Stock-based compensation

—

—

—

7,061

—

—

—

—

—

7,061

Issuance of common stock related to the acquisition of Greenline
    Financial Technologies, Inc.


—

—

5,773

—

—

—

—

—

5,775

Exercise of stock options and grants of restricted stock, net of
    withholding tax


—

—

(318

)

—

—

—

—

—

(317

)

Decrement in windfall from stock-based compensation

—

—

—

(191

)

—

—

—

—

—

(191

)

Issuance of common stock purchase warrant

—

—

—

3,195

—

—

—

—

—

3,195

Repayment of promissory notes and adjustment of prior year
    principal and interest balances

—

—

—

—

—

(117

)

—

—

—

(117

)

Purchase of treasury stock

—

—

—

—

—

—

(2,773

)

—

—

(2,773

)

Balance at December 31, 2008

$


$


$

—

$

305,508

$

—

$

(951

)

$

(40,000

)

$

(68,855

)

$

(1,320

)

$

194,493

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities

Net income

$

7,899

$

10,320

$

5,421

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

7,879

7,170

6,728

Stock-based compensation expense

7,061

5,634

6,432

Deferred taxes

4,819

4,696


Provision for bad debts

1,260



Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of businesses
    acquired:

Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable, including decreases
    (increases) of $4,360, $2,289 and ($1,828) from related parties
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively

5,785

(1,362

)

(3,294

)

(Increase) decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets

(221

)



(Decrease) increase in accrued employee compensation

(4,228

)

1,480


Increase (decrease) in deferred revenue


(97

)

(460

)

(Decrease) increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and
    other liabilities, including (decrease) increase of ($166), $67
    and $22 to related parties for the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively

(3,238

)


(919

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

27,634

29,120

17,101

Cash flows from investing activities

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (Note 3)

(34,918

)

(3,139

)

—

Securities available-for-sale:

Proceeds from maturities and sales

46,281

46,242

91,127

Purchases

(29,959

)

(48,722

)

(80,110

)

Securities and cash provided as collateral


(657

)


Purchases of furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements

(1,677

)

(1,533

)

(2,661

)

Capitalization of software development costs

(2,365

)

(3,370

)

(4,126

)

Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities

(22,499

)

(11,179

)

4,231

Cash flows from financing activities

Issuance of Series B Preferred Stock and common stock
    purchase warrants

33,510

—

—

Proceeds from exercise of stock options and grants of restricted
    stock, net of withholding tax

(317

)

5,191

3,797

(Decrement in windfall) excess tax benefits from stock-based
    compensation

(191

)

2,160

1,674

Purchase of treasury stock — common stock voting

(2,773

)

(34,574

)

(2,653

)

Other



—

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

30,311

(27,015

)

2,818

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash

(834

)

(215

)

(339

)

Cash and cash equivalents

Net increase (decrease) for the period

34,612

(9,289

)

23,811

Beginning of period

72,711

82,000

58,189

End of period

$

107,323

$

72,711

$

82,000

Supplemental cash flow information:

Cash paid during the year

Cash paid for income taxes

$


$


$


Non-cash activity

Issuance of common stock in connection with business acquisition

$

5,775

$

—

$

—

Capital lease obligation

$


$

—

$

—

Exercise of warrants and issuance of common stock

$

—

$

11,658

$

6,035

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.

Organization
    and Principal Business Activity

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (the “Company”) was
    incorporated in the State of Delaware on April 11, 2000.
    Through its subsidiaries, the Company operates an electronic
    trading platform for corporate bonds and certain other types of
    fixed-income securities through which the Company’s active
    institutional investor clients can access the liquidity provided
    by its broker-dealer clients. The Company’s multi-dealer
    trading platform allows its institutional investor clients to
    simultaneously request competitive, executable bids or offers
    from multiple broker-dealers, and to execute trades with the
    broker-dealer of their choice. The Company offers its clients
    the ability to trade U.S. high-grade corporate bonds,
    European high-grade corporate bonds, credit default swaps,
    agencies, high yield and emerging markets bonds. The
    Company’s
    DealerAxess

®

trading service allows dealers to trade fixed-income securities
    and credit default swaps with each other on its platform.
    Through its Corporate
    BondTicker

tm

service, the Company provides fixed-income market data,
    analytics and compliance tools that help its clients make
    trading decisions. In addition, the Company provides FIX
    (Financial Information eXchange) message management tools,
    connectivity solutions and ancillary technology services that
    facilitate the electronic communication of order information
    between trading counterparties.

The Company’s stockholder broker-dealer clients as of
    January 1, 2008 were BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse and
    JPMorgan. These broker-dealer clients constitute related parties
    of the Company (together, the “Stockholder Broker-Dealer
    Clients”). For 2007 and 2006, a total of seven dealers and
    nine dealers, respectively, were considered to be Stockholder
    Broker-Dealer Clients. See Note 10, “Related
    Parties.”

2.

Significant
    Accounting Policies

Basis
    of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    the Company and its subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions
    and balances have been eliminated.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash maintained at
    U.S. and U.K. banks and in money market funds. The Company
    defines cash equivalents as short-term interest-bearing
    investments with maturities at the time of purchase of three
    months or less.

Securities
    and Cash Provided as Collateral

Securities provided as collateral consist of
    U.S. government obligations and cash. Collectively, these
    amounts are used as collateral for standby letters of credit,
    electronic bank settlements, foreign currency forward contracts
    to hedge the Company’s net investments in certain foreign
    subsidiaries and a broker-dealer clearance account.

Securities
    Available-for-Sale

The Company classifies its marketable securities as
    available-for-sale securities. Unrealized marketable securities
    gains and losses are reflected as a net amount under the caption
    of accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated
    Statements of Financial Condition. Realized gains and losses are
    recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in other
    revenues. For the purpose of computing realized gains and
    losses, cost is determined on a specific identification basis.

The Company assesses whether an other-than-temporary impairment
    loss on the investments has occurred due to declines in fair
    value or other market conditions. Declines in fair values that
    are considered other-than-temporary are recorded as charges in
    the Consolidated Statements of Operations. No charges for
    other-than-temporary declines were recorded during 2008, 2007
    and 2006.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts

The Company continually monitors collections and payments from
    its clients and maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts.
    The allowance for doubtful accounts is based upon the historical
    collection experience and specific collection issues that have
    been identified. Additions to the allowance for doubtful
    accounts are charged to bad debt expense, which is included in
    general and administrative expense in the Company’s
    Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The allowance for doubtful accounts was $1.0 million,
    $0.9 million and $0.8 million as of December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The provision for bad debts
    was $1.3 million, $0.4 million and $0.7 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Write-offs and other charges against the allowance
    for doubtful accounts were $0.9 million, $0.3 million
    and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Depreciation
    and Amortization

Fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
    The Company uses the straight-line method of depreciation over
    three or five years. Leasehold improvements are stated at cost
    and are amortized using the straight-line method over the lesser
    of the life of the improvement or the remaining term of the
    lease.

Software
    Development Costs

The Company capitalizes certain costs associated with the
    development of internal use software at the point at which the
    conceptual formulation, design and testing of possible software
    project alternatives have been completed. The Company
    capitalizes employee compensation and related benefits and third
    party consulting costs incurred during the preliminary software
    project stage. Once the product is ready for its intended use,
    such costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over three
    years. The Company reviews the amounts capitalized for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
    that the carrying amounts of the assets may not be recoverable.

Foreign
    Currency Translation and Forward Contracts

Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
    translated using exchange rates at the end of the period;
    revenues and expenses are translated at average monthly rates.
    Gains and losses on foreign currency translation are a component
    of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the Consolidated
    Statements of Financial Condition. Transaction gains and losses
    are recorded in general and administrative expense in the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to
    hedge its net investment in its U.K. subsidiary. In accordance
    with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (“SFAS”) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities,” gains and losses on
    these transactions are deferred and included in accumulated
    other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of
    Financial Condition.

Revenue
    Recognition

The majority of the Company’s revenues are derived from
    monthly distribution fees and commissions for trades executed on
    its platform that are billed to its broker-dealer clients on a
    monthly basis. The Company also derives revenues from technology
    products and services, information and user access fees,
    investment income and other income.

Commission revenue.

Commissions are generally
    calculated as a percentage of the notional dollar volume of
    bonds traded on the platform and vary based on the type and
    maturity of the bond traded. Under the Company’s
    transaction fee plans, bonds that are more actively traded or
    that have shorter maturities are generally charged lower
    commissions, while bonds that are less actively traded or that
    have longer maturities generally command higher commissions.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Technology products and services.

The Company
    recognizes revenues from technology software licenses,
    maintenance and support services (referred to as post-contract
    technical support or “PCS”) and professional
    consulting services in accordance with the provisions of the
    American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’
    Statement of Position (“SOP”)

97-2,

“Software Revenue Recognition”

(“SOP 97-2”)

as amended by

SOP 98-4

and

SOP 98-9

and clarified by Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”)
    101, SAB No. 104 and Emerging Issues Task Force
    (“EITF”)

00-21

and

SOP 81-1,

“Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
    Certain Production-Type Contracts”

(“SOP 81-1”).

Revenue is generally recognized when persuasive evidence of an
    arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or
    determinable, and collection is considered probable. The Company
    generally sells software licenses and services together as part
    of multiple-element arrangements. The Company also enters into
    contracts for technology integration consulting services
    unrelated to any software product. When the Company enters into
    a multiple-element arrangement, it uses the residual method to
    allocate the total fee among the elements of the arrangement.
    Under the residual method, license revenue is recognized upon
    delivery when vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value
    exists for all of the undelivered elements in the arrangement,
    but does not exist for one or more of the delivered elements in
    the arrangement. Each license arrangement requires that the
    Company analyze the individual elements in the transaction and
    estimate the fair value of each undelivered element, which
    typically includes PCS and professional services. License
    revenue consists of license fees charged for the use of the
    Company’s products under perpetual and, to a lesser extent,
    term license arrangements. License revenue from a perpetual
    arrangement is generally recognized upon delivery while license
    revenue from a term arrangement is recognized ratably over the
    duration of the arrangement on a straight-line basis. If the
    professional services are essential to the functionality of the
    software product, the license revenue is recognized upon
    customer acceptance or satisfaction of the service obligation.

Professional services are generally separately priced, are
    available from a number of suppliers and are typically not
    essential to the functionality of the Company’s software
    products. Revenues from these services are recognized separately
    from the license fee if the arrangements qualify as
    “service transactions” as defined by

SOP 97-2.

Generally, revenue from

time-and-materials

consulting contracts is recognized as services are performed.

PCS includes telephone support, bug fixes and unspecified rights
    to product upgrades and enhancements, and is recognized ratably
    over the term of the service period, which is generally
    12 months. The Company estimates the fair value of the PCS
    portion of an arrangement based on the price charged for PCS
    when sold separately. The Company sells PCS on a separate,
    standalone basis when customers renew PCS.

Revenues from contracts for technology integration consulting
    services are recognized on the percentage-of-completion method
    in accordance with

SOP 81-1.

Percentage-of-completion accounting involves calculating the
    percentage of services provided during the reporting period
    compared to the total estimated services to be provided over the
    duration of the contract. If estimates indicate that a contract
    loss will occur, a loss provision is recorded in the period in
    which the loss first becomes probable and reasonably estimable.
    Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the
    estimated direct and indirect costs of the contract exceed the
    estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract.
    There were no contract loss provisions recorded as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007. Revenues recognized in excess
    of billings are recorded as unbilled services. Billings in
    excess of revenues recognized are recorded as deferred revenues
    until revenue recognition criteria are met.

Stock-Based
    Compensation

The Company measures and recognizes compensation expense for all
    share-based payment awards in accordance with
    SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based
    Payment” (“SFAS 123R”). This statement
    requires that compensation expense for all share-based awards be
    recognized based on their estimated fair values measured as of
    the grant date. These costs are recognized as an expense in the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations over the requisite service
    period, which is typically the vesting period, with an
    offsetting increase to additional paid-in capital. The Company
    adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective transition
    method, which required the



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

application of the accounting standard as of January 1,
    2006. In accordance with the modified prospective transition
    method, the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for
    prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not
    include, the impact of SFAS 123R.

Income
    Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability
    method in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
    “Accounting for Income Taxes”
    (“SFAS 109”). Deferred income taxes reflect the
    net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial
    reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are
    measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in
    effect when such differences are expected to reverse. The effect
    on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates
    is recognized in income in the period that includes the
    enactment date. A valuation allowance is recognized against
    deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such
    assets will not be realized in future years.

Business
    Combinations, Goodwill and Intangible assets

Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
    method of accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 141,
    “Business Combinations.” The total cost of an
    acquisition is allocated to the underlying net assets based on
    their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the
    purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets
    acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of
    certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed is judgmental in
    nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and
    assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash
    flows, discount rates, growth rates and asset lives.

In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets,” goodwill and other intangibles
    with indefinite lives are no longer amortized. An impairment
    review of goodwill is performed on an annual basis and more
    frequently if circumstances change. Intangible assets with
    definite lives, including purchased technologies, customer
    relationships and other intangible assets, are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, ranging
    from five to ten years. Intangible assets are assessed for
    impairment when events or circumstances indicate a possible
    impairment pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 144,
    “Accounting for Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets
    to be Disposed Of.”

Earnings
    Per Share

Earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated in accordance
    with SFAS No, 128, “Earnings Per Share” and

EITF 03-6,

“Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method
    under FASB Statement No. 128”

(“EITF 03-6”).

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net income
    attributable to common stock by the weighted-average number of
    shares of common stock outstanding for the period, including
    consideration of the two-class method to the extent that
    participating securities were outstanding during the period.
    Under the two-class method, undistributed net income is
    allocated to common stock and participating securities based on
    their respective right to share in dividends. The Series B
    Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of common stock and
    also includes a right whereby, upon the declaration or payment
    of a dividend or distribution on the common stock, a dividend or
    distribution must also be declared or paid on the Series B
    Preferred Stock based on the number of shares of common stock
    into which such securities were convertible at the time. Due to
    these rights, under

EITF 03-6,

the Series B Preferred Stock is considered a participating
    security requiring the use of the two-class method for the
    computation of basic EPS.

Diluted EPS is computed using the more dilutive of the
    (a) if-converted method or (b) two-class method. Since
    the Series B Preferred Stock participates equally with the
    common stock in dividends and unallocated income, diluted EPS
    under the if-converted method is equivalent to the two-class
    method. Weighted-average shares outstanding of common stock
    reflects the dilutive effect that could occur if convertible
    securities or other contracts to issue common stock were
    converted into or exercised for common stock.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Use of
    Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires
    management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
    reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
    contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
    statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
    during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from
    those estimates.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”).
    SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
    measuring fair value and requires enhanced disclosures about
    fair value measurements. Effective January 1, 2008, the
    Company adopted SFAS 157 for all financial assets and
    liabilities and for non-financial assets and liabilities
    recognized or disclosed at fair value at least annually. In
    February 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position

No. 157-2,

which delayed the effective date of SFAS 157 to fiscal
    years beginning after November 15, 2008 for non-financial
    assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or
    disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 157 on valuation of
    all other non-financial assets and liabilities. In October 2008,
    the FASB issued FASB Staff Position

No. 157-3,

“Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the
    Market for That Asset Is Not Active” (“FSP

No. 157-3”),

to provide guidance on determining the fair value of financial
    instruments in inactive markets. FSP

No. 157-3

became effective for the Company upon issuance. The adoption of
    SFAS 157 and FSP

No. 157-3

had no material effect on the Consolidated Statements of
    Financial Condition and Consolidated Statements of Operations.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
    “Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159
    permits companies to elect to measure eligible financial
    instruments, commitments and certain other arrangements at fair
    value at specified election dates, with changes in fair value
    recognized in earnings at each subsequent reporting period. The
    Company did not elect the fair value option for any of its
    existing financial instruments. Accordingly, adoption of
    SFAS 159 had no material effect on the Consolidated
    Statements of Financial Condition and Consolidated Statements of
    Operations.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised), “Business Combinations”
    (“SFAS 141R”). The standard changes the
    accounting for business combinations, including the measurement
    of acquirer shares issued in consideration for a business
    combination, the recognition of contingent consideration, the
    accounting for pre-acquisition gain and loss contingencies, the
    recognition of capitalized in-process research and development,
    the accounting for acquisition-related restructuring cost
    accruals, the treatment of acquisition-related transaction costs
    and the recognition of changes in the acquirer’s income tax
    valuation allowance. SFAS 141R is effective for fiscal
    years beginning after December 15, 2008.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
    “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51”
    (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 160 establishes
    accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling
    interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a
    subsidiary. SFAS 160 is effective for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company does not
    expect SFAS 160 to have a material impact on its
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,
    “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities — An Amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 133” (“SFAS 161”). SFAS 161
    expands the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments
    and hedging activities. SFAS 161 is effective for fiscal
    years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company does
    not expect SFAS 161 to have a material impact on its
    Consolidated Financial Statements.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior
    years’ financial statements in order to conform to the
    current year presentation. Such reclassifications had no effect
    on previously reported net income.

3.

Acquisitions

On March 5, 2008, the Company acquired all of the
    outstanding capital stock of Greenline Financial Technologies,
    Inc. (“Greenline”), an Illinois-based provider of
    integration, testing and management solutions for FIX-related
    products and services designed to optimize electronic trading of
    fixed-income, equity and other exchange-based products, and
    approximately ten percent of the outstanding capital stock of
    TradeHelm, Inc., a Delaware corporation that was spun-out from
    Greenline immediately prior to the acquisition. The acquisition
    of Greenline broadens the range of technology services that the
    Company offers to institutional financial markets, provides an
    expansion of the Company’s client base, including global
    exchanges and hedge funds, and further diversifies the
    Company’s revenues beyond the core electronic credit
    trading products. The results of operations of Greenline are
    included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date
    of the acquisition.

The aggregate consideration for the Greenline acquisition was
    $41.1 million, comprised of $34.7 million in cash,
    725,923 shares of common stock valued at $5.8 million
    and $0.6 million of acquisition-related costs. In addition,
    the sellers are eligible to receive up to an aggregate of
    $3.0 million in cash, subject to Greenline attaining
    certain earn-out targets in 2008 and 2009. A total of
    $1.4 million will be paid to the sellers in 2009 based on
    the 2008 earn-out target, bringing the aggregate consideration
    to $42.4 million. A total of $2.0 million of the
    purchase price has been deposited into escrow accounts to
    satisfy potential indemnity claims. Absent any indemnity claims,
    the final amount held in escrow will be distributed to the
    sellers on March 6, 2009. The shares of common stock to be
    issued to each selling shareholder of Greenline shall be held by
    the Company and were or will be released in two equal
    installments on December 20, 2008 and December 20,
    2009, respectively. The value ascribed to the shares was
    discounted from the market value to reflect the
    non-marketability of such shares during the restriction period.

The Company has completed a preliminary allocation of the
    purchase price to the fair value of assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. It is possible
    that the purchase price allocation will be adjusted upon
    finalization of the accounting for the acquired assets. The
    preliminary purchase price allocation is as follows (in
    thousands):

Cash

$

6,406

Accounts receivable

2,139

Amortizable intangibles

8,330

Goodwill

29,853

Deferred tax assets, net

2,754

Other assets, including investment in TradeHelm

1,428

Accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenue

(8,492

)

Total purchase price

$

42,418

The amortizable intangibles include $3.2 million of
    acquired technology, $3.3 million of customer
    relationships, $1.3 million of non-competition agreements
    and $0.5 million of tradenames. Useful lives of ten years
    and five years have been assigned to the customer relationships
    intangible and all other amortizable intangibles, respectively.
    The identifiable intangible assets and goodwill are not
    deductible for tax purposes.

The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial
    information reflects the results of operations of the Company
    for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, as if the
    acquisition of Greenline had occurred as of the beginning of the
    period presented, after giving effect to certain purchase
    accounting adjustments. These pro forma results are not
    necessarily indicative of what the Company’s operating
    results would have been had the acquisition



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

actually taken place as of the beginning of the period
    presented. The pro forma financial information includes the
    amortization charges from acquired intangible assets,
    adjustments to interest income and related tax effects.

Pro forma

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Revenues

$

94,676

$

98,340

Income before income taxes

$

13,159

$

16,264

Net income

$

8,105

$

9,790

Basic net income per common share

$

0.23

$

0.30

Diluted net income per common share

$

0.22

$

0.28

In November 2007, the Company acquired certain assets and
    assumed certain obligations of Trade West Systems, LLC
    (“TWS”), a Utah-based financial software and
    technology services provider focused on providing gateway
    adapters to connect order management systems and trading systems
    to fixed-income trading venues. The aggregate consideration for
    the TWS acquisition was $3.1 million, comprised of
    $3.0 million in cash and $0.1 million of
    acquisition-related costs. In addition, 64,642 shares of
    the Company’s common stock were issued to the seller. The
    shares of common stock issued have been characterized as
    compensation expense and, accordingly, are not included in the
    purchase price. Stock compensation expense totaling
    $1.0 million will be recognized over the vesting period.
    One-half of these shares vested on January 1, 2009 and the
    balance vest on January 1, 2010. The acquisition of TWS did
    not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated
    Financial Statements. The purchase price allocation is as
    follows (in thousands):

Account receivable and other assets

$


Amortizable intangibles

1,060

Goodwill

2,177

Accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenue

(114

)

Total purchase price

$

3,150

4.

Net
    Capital Requirements and Customer Protection
    Requirements

MarketAxess Corporation, a U.S. subsidiary, is a registered
    broker-dealer with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”) and is a member of the Financial Industry
    Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). MarketAxess
    Corporation claims exemption from SEC

Rule 15c3-3,

as it does not hold customer securities or funds on account, as
    defined. Pursuant to the Uniform Net Capital Rule under the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, MarketAxess Corporation is
    required to maintain minimum net capital, as defined, equal to
    the greater of $5,000 or


/


%
    of aggregate indebtedness. MarketAxess Europe Limited, a U.K.
    subsidiary, is registered as a Multilateral Trading Facility
    with the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) in the
    U.K. MarketAxess Canada Limited, a Canadian subsidiary, is
    registered as an Alternative Trading System dealer under the
    Securities Act of Ontario and is a member of the Investment
    Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada. MarketAxess Europe
    Limited and MarketAxess Canada Limited are subject to certain
    financial resource requirements of the FSA and the Ontario



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Securities Commission, respectively. The following table sets
    forth the capital requirements, as defined, that the
    Company’s subsidiaries were required to maintain as of
    December 31, 2008:

MarketAxess

MarketAxess

MarketAxess

Corporation

Europe Limited

Canada Limited

(In thousands)

Net capital

$

25,194

$

15,965

$


Minimum net capital required


2,550


Excess net capital

$

24,304

$

13,415

$


The Company’s regulated subsidiaries are subject to U.S.,
    U.K. and Canadian regulations which prohibit repayment of
    borrowings from the Company or affiliates, paying cash
    dividends, making loans to the Company or affiliates or
    otherwise entering into transactions that result in a
    significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial
    resources, respectively, without prior notification to or
    approval from such regulated entity’s principal regulator.

5.

Securities

SFAS 157 defines fair value as “the price that would
    be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
    an orderly transaction between market participants at the
    measurement date.” It also establishes a three-tiered fair
    value hierarchy that prioritizes inputs to valuation techniques
    used in fair value calculations. The three levels of inputs are
    defined as Level 1 (unadjusted quoted prices for identical
    assets or liabilities in active markets), Level 2 (inputs
    that are observable in the marketplace other than those inputs
    classified in Level 1) and Level 3 (inputs that
    are unobservable in the marketplace). The Company’s
    financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
    recurring basis consist of its securities

available-for-sale

portfolio and one foreign currency forward contract. The
    following table summarizes the valuation of the Company’s
    assets and liabilities measured at fair value at
    December 31, 2008.

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

(In thousands)

Securities

available-for-sale

Federal agency issues and municipal securities

$

—

$

33,177

$

—

$

33,177

Corporate bonds

—

2,050

2,050

Foreign currency forward position

—


—


$

—

$

35,491

$

—

$

35,491

Securities classified within Level 2 were valued using a
    market approach utilizing prices and other relevant information
    generated by market transactions involving comparable assets.
    The foreign currency forward contract is classified within
    Level 2 as the valuation inputs are based on quoted market
    prices. The following table is a reconciliation of financial
    assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable
    inputs (Level 3) for the year ended December 31,
    2008:

Balance as of January 1, 2008

$

—

Transfers into Level 3

6,770

Redemptions

(6,770

)

Balance as of December 31, 2008

$

—

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $13.1 million
    invested in municipal auction rate securities
    (“MARS”). Liquidity for these securities is typically
    provided by an auction process that resets the applicable
    interest rate at pre-determined

35-day

intervals. Auctions for six securities with a par value of
    $11.2 million began



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

to fail in February 2008 and, as a result, the Company had been
    unable to liquidate these holdings. Since February 2008, two
    securities have been redeemed by the issuer at an aggregate par
    value of $2.3 million, two securities had successful or
    partially successful auctions at an aggregate par value of
    $2.2 million. In addition, in October 2008, we entered into
    an agreement with the investment manager used to purchase the
    three remaining MARS, in which the investment manager agreed to
    buy them at their par value of $6.7 million. This
    transaction settled during the fourth quarter of 2008, after
    which time the Company no longer had any investments in MARS.

The following is a summary of the Company’s securities

available-for-sale:

Gross

Gross

Estimated

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

(In thousands)

As of December 31, 2008

Federal agency issues and municipal securities

$

33,138

$


$

(16

)

$

33,177

Corporate bonds

2,054

—

(4

)

2,050

Total securities

available-for-sale

$

35,192

$


$

(20

)

$

35,227

As of December 31, 2007

Federal agency issues and municipal securities

$

51,512

$


$

(11

)

$

51,579

The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of
    securities

available-for-sale:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Less than one year

$

18,702

$

37,564

Due in 1 – 2 years

16,525

14,015

Total securities

available-for-sale

$

35,227

$

51,579

Proceeds from the maturities and sales of securities

available-for-sale

during 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $46.3 million,
    $46.2 million and $91.1 million, respectively.

The fair value and continuous duration of gross unrealized
    losses on securities

available-for-sale

with unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008 and 2007
    were as follows:

Less than Twelve Months

Twelve Months or More

Total

Estimated

Gross

Estimated

Gross

Estimated

Gross

Fair

Unrealized

Fair

Unrealized

Fair

Unrealized

Value

Losses

Value

Losses

Value

Losses

(In thousands)

As of December 31, 2008

Federal agency issues and municipal securities

$

5,088

$

(10

)

$

2,134

$

(6

)

7,222

$

(16

)

Corporate bonds

—

2,050

(4

)

2,050

(4

)

Total securities

available-for-sale

$

5,088

$

(10

)

$

4,184

$

(10

)

$

9,272

$

(20

)

As of December 31, 2007

Federal agency issues and municipal securities

$

—

$

—

$

4,540

$

(11

)

$

4,540

$

(11

)



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

6.

Furniture,
    Equipment and Leasehold Improvements

Furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements, net, are
    comprised of the following:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Computer hardware and related software

$

18,015

$

16,523

Office hardware

3,574

3,317

Furniture and fixtures

1,791

1,834

Leasehold improvements

2,074

2,226

Computer hardware under capital lease


—

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(22,781

)

(20,969

)

Total furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements, net

$

3,369

$

2,931

During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    depreciation and amortization expense was $2.3 million,
    $2.9 million and $3.0 million, respectively.

7.

Software
    Development Costs

During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    software development costs totaling $2.4 million,
    $3.4 million and $4.1 million, respectively, were
    capitalized. Non-capitalized software costs and routine
    maintenance costs are expensed as incurred and are included in
    employee compensation and benefits and professional and
    consulting fees on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
    During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    amortization expense was $3.5 million, $4.2 million
    and $3.7 million, respectively. Software development costs,
    net, are comprised of the following:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Software development costs

$

19,607

$

17,344

Accumulated amortization

(15,086

)

(11,585

)

Total software development costs, net

$

4,521

$

5,759

8.

Goodwill
    and Intangible Assets

Goodwill and intangible assets principally relate to the
    allocation of purchase price associated with the acquisitions of
    Greenline and TWS. The following is a summary of changes in
    goodwill:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands)

Balance at beginning of year

$

2,361

$


Goodwill from Greenline acquisition

29,853

—

Goodwill from TWS acquisition


2,159

Balance at end of year

$

32,232

$

2,361



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Intangible assets that are subject to amortization, including
    the related accumulated amortization, are comprised of the
    following:

December 31, 2008

December 31, 2007

Accumulated

Net Carrying

Accumulated

Net Carrying

Cost

Amortization

Amount

Cost

Amortization

Amount

(In thousands)

Technology

$

4,010

$

(1,110

)

$

2,900

$


$

(26

)

$


Customer relationships

3,530

(604

)

2,926


(4

)


Non-competition agreements

1,260

(207

)

1,053

—

—

—

Tradenames


(155

)



(2

)


Total

$

9,390

$

(2,076

)

$

7,314

$

1,060

$

(32

)

$

1,028

Amortization expense associated with identifiable intangible
    assets was $2.0 million and $32,000 for the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the third
    quarter of 2008, the Company determined that the technology,
    customer relationships and tradename intangible assets
    recognized in connection with the TWS acquisition were impaired.
    A charge of $0.7 million was recorded to reflect negative
    current period operating results and reduced revenue
    expectations for connectivity solutions principally delivered to
    broker-dealers. Estimated total amortization expense is
    $1.6 million for 2009, $1.5 million for 2010 and 2011,
    $1.4 million for 2012 and $0.5 million for 2013.

9.

Income
    Taxes

The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Current:

Federal

$


$

—

$

—

State and local



(75

)

Foreign




Total current provision




Deferred:

Federal

1,883

3,596

1,745

State and local

1,076

1,825

1,138

Foreign

1,570

1,217


Total deferred provision

4,529

6,638

3,169

Provision for income taxes

$

4,935

$

6,931

$

3,183

Pre-tax income from U.S. operations was $6.7 million,
    $13.0 million and $7.5 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Pre-tax
    income from foreign operations was $6.1 million,
    $4.3 million and $1.1 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The difference between the Company’s reported provision for
    income taxes and the amount computed by multiplying pre-tax
    income taxes by the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% is
    as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

U.S. federal tax at statutory rate

$

4,492

$

6,037

$

3,011

State and local taxes — net of federal benefit


1,212


Stock compensation




Change in rate for deferred tax assets

(19

)



Change in valuation allowance

(55

)

—

(450

)

Tax-exempt interest income

(655

)

(909

)

(755

)

Tax credits


(533

)

(498

)

Other, net




Provision for income taxes

$

4,935

$

6,931

$

3,183

During 2007 and 2006 the Company reduced the income tax rate
    used for recording the deferred tax assets, resulting in a
    decrease in the deferred tax assets and an increase in tax
    expense of $0.5 million and $0.3 million,
    respectively. The following is a summary of the Company’s
    net deferred tax assets:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands)

Deferred tax assets

U.S net operating loss carryforwards

$

28,871

$

28,130

Foreign net operating loss carryforwards


2,330

Depreciation


1,065

Stock compensation expense

4,490

3,282

Restructuring charges



Tax credits

3,253

3,236

Other

2,058

1,341

Total deferred tax assets

41,206

40,261

Valuation allowance

(567

)

(623

)

Net deferred tax assets

40,639

39,638

Deferred tax liabilities

Capitalized software development costs

(1,925

)

(2,431

)

Intangible assets

(3,048

)

—

Deferred tax assets, net

$

35,666

$

37,207

As of December 31, 2008, the Company has deferred tax
    assets associated with stock-based compensation of approximately
    $4.5 million. There is a risk that the ultimate tax benefit
    realized upon the exercise of stock options or vesting of
    restricted stock could be less than the tax benefit previously
    recognized and in a manner sufficient to exhaust the
    additional-paid-in-capital pool determined under SFAS 123R.
    If this should occur, any excess tax benefit previously
    recognized would be reversed, resulting in an increase in tax
    expense. Since the tax benefit to be realized in the future is
    unknown, it is not currently possible to estimate the impact on
    the deferred tax balance. As of December 31, 2008, the
    additional

paid-in-capital

pool is approximately $3.2 million.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

A summary of the Company’s net operating loss and tax
    credit carryforwards and their expiration dates is as follows:

Tax Operating

Year of expiration

Losses

Tax Credits

(In thousands)

U.S. carryforwards:

2012 to 2018

$

—

$






2,012



23,195

—


15,671


2023 to 2027

61,802

1,597

Total U.S. carryforwards

103,250

2,007

Credits with no expiration date


Foreign carryforwards

1,835


Total

$

105,085

$

3,253

The ultimate realization of deferred income tax assets is
    dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during
    the periods in which the temporary differences become
    deductible. If it is not more likely than not that some portion
    or all of the gross deferred income tax assets will be realized
    in future years, a valuation allowance is recorded.

In 2000 and 2001, MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and MarketAxess
    Corporation had an ownership change within the meaning of
    Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Net operating
    loss carryforwards relating to the ownership change are
    $37.6 million as of December 31, 2008. However, only
    $5.2 million is deemed utilizable and recognized in the net
    operating loss carryforward figure. The Company and Greenline
    experienced ownership changes within the meaning of
    Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code in 2007 and 2008,
    respectively. The Company does not believe that these ownership
    changes significantly impacts the ability to utilize existing or
    acquired net operating loss carryforwards. In addition, the
    Company’s net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards
    may be subject to additional annual limitations if there is a
    50% or greater change in the Company’s ownership, as
    determined over a rolling three-year period.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company
    reduced the valuation allowance by $0.5 million based on
    management’s current assessment of the factors impacting
    the valuation allowance previously recorded. Such factors
    included management’s expectation of continuing future
    profitable operations and judgment concerning future utilization
    of certain net operating losses that are subject to
    Section 382 limitations prior to their expiration. In
    accordance with FIN 48, certain deferred tax assets
    aggregating $14.1 million were no longer recognized and the
    related valuation allowance was reversed effective
    January 1, 2007. As of December 31, 2008, the
    valuation allowance relates to certain tax credits and foreign
    tax loss carryforwards that are not expected to be realized. A
    summary of the changes in the valuation allowance follows:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Valuation allowance at beginning of year

$


$

14,768

$

15,218

Increase (decrease) to valuation allowance attributable to:

Net operating losses


(14,105

)

(330

)

Temporary differences

(212

)

(40

)


Tax credits

—

—

(217

)

Valuation allowance at end of year

$


$


$

14,768



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company or one of its subsidiaries files U.S. federal,
    state and foreign income tax returns. All U.S. federal,
    state and U.K. income tax returns have not been subject to
    audit, with the exception of New York city and state (through
    2003) and Connecticut state (through 2003) tax
    returns. The Company’s New York state franchise tax returns
    for 2004 through 2006 are currently under examination. The
    Company cannot estimate when the examination will conclude. An
    examination of the New York state income tax returns for 2000
    through 2003 concluded in 2008 resulting in a net payment by the
    Company of $0.1 million. During 2007, an examination of the
    New York City tax returns for 2001 to 2003 concluded with no
    adjustments. In addition, an examination of the Company’s
    Connecticut income tax returns for 2003 and 2004 concluded in
    2007 resulting in a payment of taxes and interest aggregating
    $0.1 million.

As a result of the implementation of FASB Interpretation
    No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes — an Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109,” (“FIN 48”) effective
    January 1, 2007, the Company recognized an increase in
    deferred tax assets of $3.0 million related to previously
    unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as an
    increase to additional paid-in capital of $0.3 million and
    an increase in accrued expenses of $2.7 million. If
    recognized, this entire amount would impact the effective tax
    rate. A reconciliation of the unrecognized tax benefits is as
    follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands)

Balance at beginning of year

$

2,685

$

2,685

Additions for tax positions of prior years

—


Reductions of tax positions of prior years

—

(7

)

Settlements

—

(81

)

Balance at end of year

$

2,685

$

2,685

The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to
    unrecognized tax benefits in general and administrative expenses
    in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of the adoption
    date of FIN 48, accrued interest and penalties associated
    with any unrecognized tax benefits were zero. Interest expense
    recognized for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007
    was zero and $30,000, respectively.

10.

Related
    Parties

The Company generates commissions, technology products and
    services revenues, information and user access fees, investment
    income and other income and related accounts receivable balances
    from Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients or their affiliates. In
    addition, a Stockholder Broker-Dealer Client acts in an
    investment advisory, custodial and cash management capacity for
    the Company. The Company incurs investment advisory and bank
    fees in connection with this arrangement. The Company also
    maintained an account with a Stockholder Broker-Dealer Client in
    connection with its share repurchase program. As of the dates
    and for the periods indicated below, the Company had the
    following balances and transactions with the Stockholder
    Broker-Dealer Clients or their affiliates:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Cash and cash equivalents

$

106,649

$

71,598

Securities and cash provided as collateral

3,816

3,955

Accounts receivable

1,930

6,290

Accounts payable





MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Commissions

$

12,466

$

31,442

$

35,626

Technology products and services


—

—

Information and user access fees



1,177

Investment income

1,165

2,062

1,007

Other income




General and administrative




As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had loans and
    interest receivable due from the Chief Executive Officer of
    $1.0 million and $1.2 million, respectively, which are
    described in more detail in Footnote 11,
    “Stockholders’ Equity.” The accrued interest on
    the loans is recorded in accounts receivable and the principal
    amount is recorded as a receivable for common stock subscribed
    in stockholders’ equity on the Consolidated Statements of
    Financial Condition. During 2008 and 2007, principal and
    interest payments aggregating $0.3 million and
    $0.3 million, respectively, were received.

11.

Stockholders’
    Equity

Common
    Stock

As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had
    110,000,000 authorized shares of common stock and 10,000,000
    authorized shares of non-voting common stock. Common stock
    entitles the holder to one vote per share of common stock held.
    Non-voting common stock is convertible on a

one-for-one

basis into shares of voting common stock at any time subject to
    a limitation on conversion to the extent such conversion would
    result in a stockholder, together with its affiliates, owning
    more than 9.99% of the outstanding shares of common stock.
    During 2007 and 2006, a total of 539,725 shares and
    1,275,951 shares, respectively, of non-voting common stock
    were converted to voting common stock.

In October 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company
    authorized a share repurchase program for up to
    $40.0 million of common stock. Shares repurchased under the
    program are held in treasury for future use. During 2008, 2007
    and 2006, a total of 221,406 shares, 2,452,214 shares
    and 190,500 shares were repurchased at a cost of
    $2.8 million, $34.6 million and $2.7 million,
    respectively. The share repurchase program was completed in
    January 2008. A total of 2,864,120 shares were repurchased
    at an aggregate cost of $40.0 million over the life of the
    repurchase program.

Common
    Stock Subscribed

In 2001, the Company awarded 289,581 shares to the
    Company’s Chief Executive Officer at $3.60 per share, which
    vested over a three-year period. The common stock subscribed was
    issued in 2001 in exchange for four eleven-year promissory notes
    that bear interest at the applicable federal rate and are
    collateralized by the subscribed shares.

Warrants

In April 2000, the Board of Directors initiated a warrant
    program that commenced on February 1, 2001. Under this
    program, the Company reserved for issuance 5,000,002 shares
    of common stock. The warrants were issued to holders of
    Series A, C, E and I redeemable convertible preferred stock
    (the “Warrant Holders”). The Warrant Holders were
    entitled to purchase shares of common stock from the Company at
    an exercise price of $.003. The warrants were issued to the
    Warrant Holders at the time that they made an equity investment
    in the Company. Allocations were based on each broker-dealer
    client’s respective commissions as a percentage of the
    total



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

commissions from the six participating Warrant Holders,
    calculated on a quarterly basis. The final share allocations
    under the warrant program occurred on March 1, 2004. Shares
    allocated under the warrant program were expensed on a quarterly
    basis at fair market value in accordance with SFAS 123.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, two Stockholder
    Broker-Dealer Clients converted 1,295,004 warrants into
    1,294,849 shares of common stock through non-cash
    exercises. During the year ended December 31, 2007, two
    Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients converted 2,379,200 warrants
    into 2,378,764 shares of common stock through non-cash
    exercises. There are no warrants outstanding as of
    December 31, 2008. The exercise of warrants during 2007 and
    prior years resulted in an unrecognized deferred tax asset of
    $18.3 million that will be recorded as an increase to
    additional

paid-in-capital

once the tax benefit serves to reduce taxes payable in future
    years.

Series B
    Preferred Stock and Warrants

On June 2, 2008, the Company entered into a Securities
    Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with two
    funds managed by Technology Crossover Ventures (the
    “Purchasers”), pursuant to which the Company agreed to
    issue and sell to the Purchasers (i) 35,000 shares of
    the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock, which shares
    are convertible into an aggregate of 3,500,000 shares of
    common stock and (ii) warrants (the “Warrants”
    and, together with the Series B Preferred Stock, the
    “Securities”) to purchase an aggregate of
    700,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of
    $10.00 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of
    $35.0 million. The Securities were purchased in two
    tranches on June 3, 2008 and July 14, 2008, with the
    first tranche representing 28,000 shares of Series B
    Preferred Stock and Warrants to purchase 560,000 shares of
    common stock for an aggregate purchase price of
    $28.0 million, and the second tranche representing the
    remainder of the Securities for an aggregate purchase price of
    $7.0 million. The net proceeds, after the placement agent
    fee and legal fees, were $26.8 million for the first
    tranche and $6.8 million for the second tranche.

The Purchasers have the right to nominate one director to the
    Board of Directors of the Company if they beneficially own at
    least 1,750,000 shares of common stock. The Purchasers also
    have registration rights that require the Company, within six
    months after the closing date, to file a registration statement
    with the SEC to register the resale of the shares of common
    stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred
    Stock and upon exercise of the Warrants (collectively, the
    “Registrable Shares”), and to cause such registration
    statement to become effective under the Securities Act of 1933,
    as amended, no later than 12 months after the closing. On
    January 22, 2009, a registration statement on

Form S-3

registered the resale of the Registrable Shares was declared
    effective by the SEC. The Company has also agreed to provide the
    Purchasers with piggyback registration rights on certain public
    offerings of securities by the Company.

The purchase price of the Series B Preferred Stock was
    $1,000.00 per share (the “Original Series B Issue
    Price”). In the event of a Liquidation Event (as such term
    is defined in the Series B Certificate of Designation),
    each holder of the Series B Preferred Stock is entitled to
    receive, prior to any distribution to the holders of the common
    stock, the greater of (i) an amount per share of
    Series B Preferred Stock equal to the Original
    Series B Issue Price, plus any declared but unpaid
    dividends thereon, and (ii) the amount such holder would
    have received in connection with the Liquidation Event if the
    holder held the number of shares of common stock issuable upon
    conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock then held by
    such holder.

The shares of Series B Preferred Stock are convertible at
    any time by the holders thereof at a conversion price of $10.00
    per share, subject to anti-dilution adjustments in the event of
    a stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or similar
    transaction. The Series B Preferred Stock will be
    automatically converted into shares of common stock at the
    then-applicable conversion price if at any time after
    June 3, 2009 (the first anniversary of the original
    issuance of the Series B Preferred Stock), the closing
    price of the common stock is at least $17.50 on each trading day
    for a period of 65 consecutive trading days.

The Series B Preferred Stock includes a dividend right
    whereby, upon the declaration or payment of a dividend or
    distribution on the common stock, a dividend or distribution
    must also be declared or paid on the Series B



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Preferred Stock based on the number of shares of common stock
    into which such shares of Series B Preferred Stock would be
    convertible at the time. The holders of the Series B
    Preferred Stock also have voting rights equal to the aggregate
    number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of
    such holders’ shares of Series B Preferred Stock.

As discussed above, the Warrants entitle the Purchasers to
    purchase an aggregate of 700,000 shares of common stock at
    an exercise price of $10.00 per share. The Warrants may be
    exercised for cash or on a net exercise basis. The Warrants
    expire on the tenth anniversary of the date they were first
    issued and are subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments in
    the event of stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends
    and similar transactions. The net proceeds from the issuance
    have been allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock and
    Warrants based on their relative fair value on the respective
    closing dates and resulted in $3.2 million being allocated
    to the Warrants. The fair value of the Warrants was computed
    using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.

The Series B Preferred Stock does not contain an
    unconditional obligation requiring the Company to redeem the
    shares at a specified date or upon the occurrence of an event
    certain. While liability classification does not apply, there
    are certain liquidation scenarios not solely within the
    Company’s control. Therefore, the portion of the net
    proceeds attributable to the Series B Preferred Stock is
    not classified as permanent equity. The Series B Preferred
    Stock is not being accreted to its redemption value since the
    occurrence of a redemption event is not considered probable.

Stockholder
    Rights Agreement

On June 2, 2008, the Board of Directors implemented a
    stockholders rights agreement and declared a distribution of one
    right (a “Right”) for each outstanding share of common
    stock and non-voting common stock, to stockholders of record at
    the close of business on June 20, 2008 and for each share
    of common stock and non-voting common stock issued by the
    Company thereafter and prior to the Distribution Date (as
    defined in the stockholders rights agreement). Each Right
    entitles the registered holder, subject to the terms of the
    stockholders rights agreement, to purchase from the Company one
    one-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, par
    value $0.001 per share (a “Unit), at a price of $40.00 per
    Unit, subject to adjustment.

12.

Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans

The Company has three stock incentive plans which provide for
    the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights,
    restricted stock, performance shares, performance units, or
    other stock-based awards as incentives and rewards to encourage
    employees, consultants and non-employee directors to participate
    in the long-term success of the Company. On June 7, 2006,
    stockholder approval was obtained for an amendment and
    restatement of the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan to, among other
    things, increase the number of shares authorized for issuance
    under the plan from 3,084,802 to 9,754,802 shares. As of
    December 31, 2008, there were 5,661,605 shares
    available for grant under the stock incentive plans.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Total stock-based compensation expense was as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Employee:

Stock options

$

2,832

$

3,045

$

3,737

Restricted stock

3,757

2,103

2,140

6,589

5,148

5,877

Non-employee directors and consultants:

Stock options




Restricted stock







Total stock-based compensation

$

7,061

$

5,634

$

6,432

The Company records stock-based compensation expense for
    employees in employee compensation and benefits and for
    non-employee directors and consultants in general and
    administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
    Operations.

Stock
    Options

The exercise price of each option granted is equal to the market
    price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant.
    Generally, option grants have provided for vesting over a
    three-year period, with one-third vesting after one year from
    the grant date and the remaining two-thirds vesting on an equal
    monthly basis over the remaining two-year period. Options expire
    ten years from the date of grant.

The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of
    grant using the Black-Scholes closed-form model. The Company
    believes that the use of the Black-Scholes model meets the fair
    value measurement objectives of SFAS 123R and reflects all
    substantive characteristics of the instruments being valued. The
    determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the
    date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the
    Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a
    number of highly complex and subjective variables, including the
    expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, the
    risk-free interest rate and the expected term. Expected
    volatilities are based on historical volatility of the
    Company’s stock and a peer group. The risk-free interest
    rate is based on U.S. Treasury securities with a maturity
    value approximating the expected term of the option. The
    expected term represents the period of time that options granted
    are expected to be outstanding based on actual and projected
    employee stock option exercise behavior.

The following table represents the assumptions used for the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the per share
    weighted-average fair value for options granted for the years
    ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:




Weighted-average expected life (years)

6.1

5.0

4.6

Weighted-average risk-free interest rate

3.1

%

4.7

%

4.7

%

Weighted-average expected volatility

37.6

%

44.6

%

41.8

%

Weighted-average fair value per option granted

$

4.51

$

6.02

$

4.45



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table reports stock option activity during the
    three years ended December 31, 2008 and the intrinsic value
    as of December 31, 2008:

Remaining

Number of

Weighted-Average

Contractual

Shares

Exercise Price

Term

Intrinsic Value

(In thousands)

Outstanding at December 31, 2005

5,168,807

$

7.56

Granted

2,297,150

$

10.87

Canceled

(983,981

)

$

10.98

Exercised

(768,116

)

$

4.94

Outstanding at December 31, 2006

5,713,860

$

8.65

Granted

638,500

$

13.26

Canceled

(550,947

)

$

11.55

Exercised

(774,521

)

$

7.76

Outstanding at December 31, 2007

5,026,892

$

9.05

Granted

851,620

$

10.77

Canceled

(516,408

)

$

11.60

Exercised

(74,929

)

$

2.93

$


Outstanding at December 31, 2008

5,287,175

$

9.17

6.3

$

8,809

Exercisable at December 31, 2008

3,880,811

$

8.47

5.5

$

8,809

The intrinsic value is the amount by which the closing price of
    the Company’s common stock on December 31, 2008
    of $8.16 or the price on the day of exercise exceeds the
    exercise price of the stock options multiplied by the number of
    shares. As of December 31, 2008, there was
    $5.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
    related to non-vested stock options. That cost is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.4 years.

Restricted
    Stock

Shares of restricted stock generally vest over a period of three
    years. Certain grants vest after five years. Had certain
    performance criteria been met by the Company there were
    provisions that allowed for accelerated vesting over a shorter
    term. However, the performance criteria were not met.
    Compensation expense is measured at the grant date and
    recognized ratably over the vesting period. The Company
    considers the likelihood of meeting the performance criteria in
    determining the amount to expense on a periodic basis.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table reports restricted stock activity during the
    three years ended December 31, 2008:

Weighted-

Average

Number of

Grant Date Fair

Restricted Shares

Value

Outstanding at December 31, 2005

189,000

$

14.86

Granted

869,000

Canceled

(102,497

)

Vested

(74,909

)

Outstanding at December 31, 2006

880,594

$

12.29

Granted

96,642

Canceled

(54,498

)

Vested

(215,735

)

Outstanding at December 31, 2007

707,003

$

12.69

Granted

151,915

Canceled

(6,967

)

Vested

(203,957

)

Outstanding at December 31, 2008

647,994

$

12.14

As of December 31, 2008, there was $5.3 million of
    total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested
    restricted stock. That cost is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted-average period of 1.5 years.

Performance
    Shares

During 2008, the Company granted performance share awards to
    certain senior managers with a cumulative target pay-out of
    177,680 shares of common stock. The fair value of these
    awards on the grant date was $10.93 per share. Each performance
    share award would vest or be forfeited based on the level of
    achievement by the Company of pre-tax operating income on a per
    share basis before performance share and cash bonus expense for
    the 2008 calendar year performance period. For each performance
    share earned, a participant would be awarded an equal number of
    shares of restricted stock. Any restricted stock awarded to a
    participant would vest and cease to be restricted stock in equal
    50% installments on each of the second and third anniversaries
    of the date of grant of the applicable performance share award.
    The Company failed to meet the pre-tax operating income per
    share target for 2008 and, accordingly, all of the performance
    share awards were forfeited.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.

Commitments
    and Contingencies

The Company leases office space and equipment under
    non-cancelable lease agreements expiring at various dates
    through 2019. Office space leases are subject to escalation
    based on certain costs incurred by the landlord. Minimum rental
    commitments under such operating and capital leases, net of
    sublease income, are as follows:

Year Ending December 31,

Operating Leases

Capital Lease

(In thousands)


$

2,270

$



1,099











2014 and thereafter

2,215

—

Minimum lease payments

7,507


Less amount representing interest

—


$

7,507

$


The rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006 was $2.4 million, $2.2 million and
    $2.5 million, respectively, which is included in occupancy
    expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Rental
    expense has been recorded based on the total minimum lease
    payments after giving effect to rent abatement and concessions,
    which are being amortized on a straight-line basis over the life
    of the lease, and sublease income.

The Company has entered into a sublease agreement on one of its
    leased properties through the April 2011 lease termination date.
    A loss on the sublease was recorded in 2001. The sublease loss
    accrual at December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $0.5 million
    and $0.7 million, respectively. In May 2008, the Company
    assigned the lease agreement on another leased property to a
    third party. The Company is contingently liable should the
    assignee default on future lease obligations through the
    November 2016 lease termination date. The aggregate amount of
    future lease obligations under these two arrangements is
    $5.0 million as of December 31, 2008.

The Company is contingently obligated for standby letters of
    credit that were issued to landlords for office space. The
    Company uses a U.S. government obligation as collateral for
    these standby letters of credit. This collateral is included
    with securities and cash provided as collateral in the
    Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and had a fair
    market value as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 of
    $3.3 million.

MarketAxess Corporation operates an anonymous matching service
    for its broker-dealer clients and during 2008 extended its
    trading counterparty role to include the execution of certain
    bond transactions between and among institutional investor and
    broker-dealer clients. MarketAxess Corporation executes all such
    trades on a riskless principal basis, which are cleared and
    settled by an independent clearing broker. Under a securities
    clearing agreement with the independent third party, MarketAxess
    Corporation maintains a collateral deposit with the clearing
    broker in the form of cash or U.S. government securities.
    As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the collateral deposit
    included in securities and cash provided as collateral in the
    Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition was
    $0.5 million. MarketAxess Corporation is exposed to credit
    risk in the event a counterparty does not fulfill its obligation
    to complete a transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the
    securities clearing agreement between MarketAxess Corporation
    and the independent clearing broker, the clearing broker has the
    right to charge MarketAxess Corporation for losses resulting
    from a counterparty’s failure to fulfill its contractual
    obligations. The losses are not capped at a maximum amount and
    apply to all trades executed through the clearing broker. At
    December 31, 2008, MarketAxess Corporation had not recorded
    any liabilities with regard to this right.

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into
    contracts that contain a variety of representations, warranties
    and general indemnifications. The Company’s maximum
    exposure under these arrangements is



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

unknown, as this would involve future claims that may be made
    against the Company that have not yet occurred. However, based
    on experience, the Company expects the risk of loss to be remote.

In January 2007, a former employee commenced separate
    arbitration proceedings against MarketAxess Corporation before
    FINRA arising out of the expiration of certain vested and
    unvested stock options and unvested restricted shares issued to
    him. The former employee subsequently filed a separate statement
    of claim against MarketAxess Holdings Inc. based on the same
    statement of claim he had filed against MarketAxess Corporation
    and the former employee’s claims were consolidated by FINRA
    in a single proceeding. A hearing of the claims brought by the
    former employee was held in June 2008 and, by an award served on
    the parties on June 20, 2008, the FINRA arbitration panel
    denied the claims, totaling approximately $3.6 million, in
    their entirety. The period to file a motion to vacate the award
    expired in September 2008 without a filing by the former
    employee.

In January 2007, another former employee of MarketAxess
    Corporation commenced an arbitration proceeding before FINRA
    arising out of the May 2006 termination of such
    individual’s employment with MarketAxess Corporation. This
    individual subsequently amended his statement of claim to add
    the Company as a party to the arbitration proceeding. FINRA
    consolidated all of the former employee’s claims into a
    single proceeding.

The former employee alleges that the Company acted wrongfully as
    a result of, and in connection with, the decision by the
    Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors
    not to accede to the employee’s demand for alteration of
    the terms of certain stock option and restricted stock
    agreements in order to award the employee additional rights and
    benefits upon the termination of his employment,

i.e.

,
    accelerated vesting of all of his then unvested options and
    shares of restricted stock and waiver of the

90-day

time
    period within which he was contractually required to exercise
    his vested options. This former employee further alleges that he
    is entitled to a bonus for the approximately five months that he
    worked for MarketAxess Corporation during 2006. The alleged
    damages sought by the claimant total approximately
    $0.9 million, plus statutory interest, and an unstated
    amount of punitive damages, costs and expenses.

The FINRA hearing, which had been scheduled for early February
    2009, has been postponed until a new hearing can be rescheduled.
    The Company believes that these claims are wholly without merit
    and has vigorously defended against them. Based on currently
    available information, the Company believes that the likelihood
    of a material loss is not probable. Accordingly, no amount has
    been provided in the accompanying financial statements. However,
    arbitration is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable
    rulings could occur.

14.

Segment
    Information

As an electronic multi-dealer platform for the trading of
    fixed-income securities, the Company’s operations
    constitute a single business segment pursuant to
    SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an
    Enterprise and Related Information.” Because of the highly
    integrated nature of the financial markets in which the Company
    competes and the integration of the Company’s worldwide
    business activities, the Company believes that results by
    geographic region or client sector are not necessarily
    meaningful in understanding its business.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

15.

Earnings
    Per Share

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
    diluted earnings per common share:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Basic EPS

Net income

$

7,899

$

10,320

$

5,421

Amount allocable to common shareholders

94.3

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

Net income applicable to common stock

$

7,449

$

10,320

$

5,421

Common stock — voting

30,245,269

29,572,451

26,764,640

Common stock — non-voting

2,585,654

2,720,585

3,798,797

Basic weighted average shares outstanding

32,830,923

32,293,036

30,563,437

Basic earnings per share

$

0.23

$

0.32

$

0.18

Diluted EPS

Net income

$

7,899

$

10,320

$

5,421

Basic weighted average shares outstanding

32,830,923

32,293,036

30,563,437

Effect of dilutive shares:

Series B Preferred Stock

1,983,334

—

—

Warrants

—

579,732

3,026,800

Stock options and restricted stock

923,122

1,580,427

1,487,111

Diluted weighted average shares outstanding

35,737,379

34,453,195

35,077,348

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.22

$

0.30

$

0.15

Stock options, restricted stock and warrants totaling
    4,718,939 shares, 719,921 shares and
    2,231,578 shares for the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were excluded from the
    computation of diluted earnings per share because their effect
    would have been antidilutive.

16.

Accounting
    for Foreign Currency Forward Contracts and Hedging
    Activities

The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts with
    a non-controlling stockholder to hedge its exposure to
    variability in foreign currency cash flows resulting from the
    net investment in its U.K. subsidiary. The Company assesses each
    foreign currency forward contract to ensure that it is highly
    effective at reducing the exposure being hedged. The Company
    designates each foreign currency forward contract as a hedge,
    assesses the risk management objective and strategy, including
    identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item and
    the risk exposure and how effectiveness is to be assessed
    prospectively and retrospectively. These hedges are for a
    one-month or three-month period and are used to limit exposure
    to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Gains or losses
    on foreign currency forward contracts designated as hedges are
    included in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the
    Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. A summary of the
    foreign currency forward contract is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Notional value

$

20,041

$

21,801

$

17,419

Fair value of notional

19,777

21,890

17,381



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

17.

Retirement
    Savings Plan

The Company, through its U.S. and U.K. subsidiaries, offers
    its employees the opportunity to invest in defined contribution
    plans. For the years ending December 31, 2008, 2007 and
    2006, the Company contributed $0.4 million,
    $0.6 million and $0.3 million, respectively, to the
    plans.

18.

Customer
    Concentration

During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, no
    single client accounted for more than 10% of total revenue.



Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures.

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
    Procedures.

Our management, including the Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the
    effectiveness of our “disclosure controls and
    procedures,” as that term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(e)

and

Rule 15d-15(e)

promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of December 31,
    2008. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and
    Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls
    and procedures are effective to ensure that information required
    to be disclosed by MarketAxess in the reports that we file or
    submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized
    and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities
    and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and to ensure
    that information is accumulated and communicated to our
    management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
    regarding required disclosure.

(b)

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control
    Over Financial Reporting.

See Item 8 of this
    Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

(c)

Attestation Report of the Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm.

See Report of Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm included in Item 8 of
    this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

(d)

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting.

There were no changes in our internal
    control over financial reporting (as defined in

Rule 13a-15(f)

and

Rule 15d-15(f)

under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended
    December 31, 2008 identified in connection with the
    evaluation thereof by our management, including the Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, that materially
    affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
    internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

Other
    Information.

None.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the sections entitled
    “Proposal 1 — Election of Directors,”
    “Corporate Governance and Board Matters,”
    “Executive Officers” and “Other
    Matters — Section 16(a) beneficial ownership
    reporting compliance” in the Company’s definitive
    Proxy Statement (the “Proxy Statement”) for the Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders to be held in the second quarter of
    2009. The Company intends to file the Proxy Statement within
    120 days after the end of its fiscal year (i.e., on or
    before April 30, 2009). The Company’s Code of Conduct
    applicable to directors and all employees, including senior
    financial officers, is available on the Company’s website
    at

www.marketaxess.com

. If the Company makes any
    amendments to its Code of Conduct that is required to be
    disclosed pursuant to the Exchange Act, the Company will make
    such disclosures on its website.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation.

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the sections entitled “Compensation Discussion
    and Analysis,” “Report of the Compensation Committee
    of the Board of Directors,”  “Executive
    Compensation” and “Corporate Governance and Board
    Matters — Directors Compensation” in the
    Company’s Proxy Statement.

Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.

The information required by this item with respect to the
    security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management
    is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled
    “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management” in the Company’s Proxy Statement.

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information

The following table provides certain information regarding
    common stock authorized for issuance under the Company’s
    equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2008.

Number of Securities

Remaining Available for

Number of Securities

Future Issuance under

to be Issued upon

Weighted-Average

Equity Compensation

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

Plans (Excluding

Outstanding Options,

Outstanding Options,

Securities Reflected

Warrants and Rights

Warrants and Rights

in Column (a))

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders(1)

4,398,286

$

10.47

5,661,605

Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders(2)

888,889

$

2.70

—

Total

5,287,175

$

9.05

5,661,605

(1)

These plans consist of the Company’s 2004 Stock Incentive
    Plan (Amended and Restated Effective April 28, 2006), 2001
    Stock Incentive Plan and 2000 Stock Incentive Plan.

(2)

Represents the grant of a stock option made in February 2003 to
    a senior officer. This option is now fully vested.

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the section entitled “Certain Relationships
    and Related Party Transactions” in the Company’s Proxy
    Statement.

Item 14.

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services.

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the section entitled “Proposal 2 —
    Ratification of Selection of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm — Audit and other fees” in the
    Company’s Proxy Statement.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules.

(a) Financial Statements and Schedules

The financial statements are set forth under Item 8 of this
    Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are
    either not required, not applicable, or the information is
    otherwise included.

(b) Exhibit Listing

Number

Description


.1

Intentionally omitted


.2*

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation


.3

Intentionally omitted


.4*

Amended and Restated Bylaws


.5

Form of Certificate of Designation of Series A Preferred Stock
    of MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.1 to the registrant’s Registration Statement on
    Form 8-A dated June 3, 2008)


.6

Form of Certificate of Designation of Series B Preferred Stock
    of MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.2 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
    dated June 2, 2008)


.1*

Specimen Common Stock certificate


.2*

Sixth Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement


.3*

Intentionally omitted


.4*

See Exhibits 3.2 and 3.4 for provisions defining the rights of
    holders of common stock and non-voting common stock of the
    registrant


.5

Investor Rights Agreement by and among MarketAxess Holdings
    Inc., a Delaware corporation, TCV VI, L.P., a Delaware limited
    partnership, and TCV Member Fund, L.P., a Delaware limited
    partnership, dated June 2, 2008 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
    dated June 2, 2008)


.6

Form of Warrant issued by MarketAxess Holdings Inc.
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the
    registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 2, 2008)


.7

Stockholders Rights Agreement, dated as of June 2, 2008 by and
    between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and American Stock Transfer
    & Trust Company, LLC, as Rights Agent (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the registrant’s Registration
    Statement on Form 8-A dated June 3, 2008)


.1(a)

Employment Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2004, by and between
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey# (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Registration
    Statement on Form S-1, as amended (Registration No. 333-112718)


.1(b)**

Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated as of December 19,
    2008, by and between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M.
    McVey#


.2(a)*

Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 11, 2001,
    by and between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey#


.2(b)*

Full Recourse Secured Promissory Note, dated June 11, 2001, by
    Richard M. McVey in favor of MarketAxess Holdings Inc.#


.2(c)*

Non-Recourse Secured Promissory Note, dated June 11, 2001, by
    Richard M. McVey in favor of MarketAxess Holdings Inc.#


.2(d)*

Stock Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 11, 2001, by and
    between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey#


.2(e)*

Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2001,
    by and between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey#


.2(f)*

Full Recourse Secured Promissory Note, dated July 1, 2001, by
    Richard M. McVey in favor of MarketAxess Holdings Inc.#



Number

Description


.2(g)*

Non-Recourse Secured Promissory Note, dated July 1, 2001, by
    Richard M. McVey in favor of MarketAxess Holdings Inc.#


.2(h)*

Stock Pledge Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2001, by and between
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey#


.3*

Stock Option Agreement, dated February 7, 2003, by and between
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey#


.4

Intentionally omitted


.5

Intentionally omitted


.6*

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. Amended and Restated 2000 Stock
    Incentive Plan#


.7*

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. Amended and Restated 2001 Stock
    Incentive Plan#


.8*

Amendment No. 1 to the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. Amended and
    Restated 2001 Stock Incentive Plan#


.9*

Amendment to the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2001 and 2000 Stock
    Incentive Plans#


.10(a)

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (amended and
    restated effective April 28, 2006)# (incorporated by reference
    to Appendix A to the registrant’s Proxy Statement for its
    Annual Meeting for Stockholders held on June 7, 2006, filed on
    May 1, 2006)


.10(b)

Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (amended and
    restated effective April 28, 2006)# (incorporated by reference
    to Appendix B to the registrant’s Proxy Statement for its
    Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 7, 2006, filed on
    May 1, 2006)


.10(c)

Form of Non Qualified Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (amended and
    restated effective April 28, 2006)# (incorporated by reference
    to Appendix C to the registrant’s Proxy Statement for its
    Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 7, 2006, filed on
    May 1, 2006)


.11*

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Annual Performance Incentive Plan#


.12*

Form of Indemnification Agreement


.13

Restricted Stock Agreement Pursuant to MarketAxess Holdings Inc.
    2004 Stock Incentive Plan, dated as of January 31, 2006, by and
    between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey#
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 30,
    2006)


.14(a)

Offer Letter dated August 21, 2006 between MarketAxess Holdings
    Inc. and T. Kelley Millet# (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.1 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
    September 12, 2006)


.14(b)**

Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated as of December 23,
    2008, by and between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and T. Kelley
    Millet#


.15

Stock Option Agreement dated September 13, 2006 between
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and T. Kelley Millet# (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated September 13, 2006)


.16

Restricted Stock Agreement dated September 13, 2006 between
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and T. Kelley Millet# (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the registrant’s Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated September 13, 2006)


.17

Form of Performance Share Award Agreement for Messrs. McVey and
    Millet pursuant to the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock
    Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective April 28,
    2006)#  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 15,
    2008)


.18

Form of Performance Share Award Agreement for Employees other
    than Messrs. McVey and Millet pursuant to the MarketAxess
    Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated
    effective April 28, 2006)#  (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
    dated January 15, 2008)


.19

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Employees other than
    Messrs. McVey and Millet pursuant to the MarketAxess Holdings
    Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated
    effective April 28, 2006)#  (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.3 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
    dated January 15, 2008)



Number

Description


.20

Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for Employees other
    than Messrs. McVey and Millet pursuant to the MarketAxess
    Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated
    effective April 28, 2006)#  (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.4 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
    dated January 15, 2008)


.21

Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for Mr. McVey pursuant
    to the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (as
    amended and restated effective April 28, 2006)#  (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the registrant’s Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated January 15, 2008)


.22

Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for Mr. Millet pursuant
    to the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (as
    amended and restated effective April 28, 2006)#  (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the registrant’s Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated January 15, 2008)


.23

Stock Purchase and Investment Agreement, dated as of March 5,
    2008, by and among MarketAxess Technologies Inc., Greenline
    Financial Technologies, Inc., the Sellers party thereto and the
    Sellers’ Representative party thereto (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated March 5, 2008)


.24

Form of MarketAxess Holdings Inc. Restricted Stock Agreement,
    dated as of March 5, 2008, by and between MarketAxess Holdings
    Inc. and each of the Sellers party to the Stock Purchase and
    Investment Agreement listed as Exhibit 10.23 above (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the registrant’s Current
    Report on Form 8-K dated March 5, 2008)


.25

Escrow Agreement, dated as of March 5, 2008, by and among
    MarketAxess Technologies Inc., the Sellers’ Representative
    and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as escrow agent
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 5, 2008)


.26

Securities Purchase Agreement by and among MarketAxess Holdings
    Inc., a Delaware corporation, TCV VI, L.P., a Delaware limited
    partnership, and TCV Member Fund, L.P., a Delaware limited
    partnership, dated June 2, 2008 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
    dated June 2, 2008)


.27

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Messrs. McVey and Millet
    pursuant to the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive
    Plan (Amended and Restated effective April 28, 2006)#
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 23,
    2008)


.28(a)**

MarketAxess Severance Pay Plan, effective August 1, 2006#


.28(b)**

Amendment No. 1 to MarketAxess Severance Pay Plan, dated as of
    December 17, 2008#


.1**

Subsidiaries of the Registrant


.1**

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP


.1**

Certification by Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange
    Act Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


.2**

Certification by Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange
    Act Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


.1**

Certification by Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


.2**

Certification by Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
    of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

By:

/s/

Richard
    M. McVey

Richard M. McVey

Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 3, 2009

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
    behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
    indicated:

Signature

Date

Title(s)

/s/

Richard
    M. McVey

Richard
    M. McVey

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman

of the Board of Directors

(principal executive officer)

March 3, 2009

/s/

James
    N.B. Rucker

James
    N.B. Rucker

Chief Financial Officer (principal financial and accounting
    officer)

March 3, 2009

/s/

Roger
    Burkhardt

Roger
    Burkhardt

Director

March 3, 2009

/s/

Stephen
    P. Casper

Stephen
    P. Casper

Director

March 3, 2009

/s/

David
    G. Gomach

David
    G. Gomach

Director

March 3, 2009

/s/

Carlos
    Hernandez

Carlos
    Hernandez

Director

March 3, 2009

/s/

Ronald
    M. Hersch

Ronald
    M. Hersch

Director

March 3, 2009

/s/

Jerome
    S. Markowitz

Jerome
    S. Markowitz

Director

March 3, 2009

/s/

T.
    Kelley Millet

T.
    Kelley Millet

President and Director

March 3, 2009

/s/

Nicolas
    S. Rohatyn

Nicolas
    S. Rohatyn

Director

March 3, 2009

/s/

John
    Steinhardt

John
    Steinhardt

Director

March 3, 2009

/s/

Robert
    Trudeau

Robert
    Trudeau

Director

March 3, 2009

104