10-K


y31603e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K


UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

Form 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT of 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2006

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
    from          to

Commission File Number 0-50670

MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS
    INC.

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Delaware

52-2230784

(State of
    incorporation)

(IRS Employer Identification
    No.)

140 Broadway, New York, New
    York


(Address of principal executive
    offices)

(Zip Code)

(212) 813-6000

(Registrant’s telephone
    number, including area code)

SECURITIES
    REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

None

SECURITIES
    REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

Common Stock, par value $0.003 per share

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated
    filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
    accelerated filer” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer

o

Accelerated
    filer

þ

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock and
    non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
    as of June 30, 2006 (the last business day of the
    registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter)
    was approximately $316,499,229 computed by reference to the last
    reported sale price on the National Market System on that date.
    For purposes of this calculation, affiliates are considered to
    be officers, directors and holders of 10% or more of the
    outstanding common stock of the registrant on that date. The
    registrant had 26,697,829 shares of common stock, 1,927,318
    of which were held by affiliates, and 3,976,013 shares of
    non-voting common stock outstanding on that date.

At March 8, 2007, the aggregate number of shares of the
    registrant’s voting and non voting common stock outstanding
    was 32,776,126.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for
    the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by
    reference into Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of
    Part III of this

Form 10-K.

MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.


FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS

ii


PART I

Forward-Looking
    Statements

This report contains certain “forward-looking
    statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be
    identified by words such as “expects,”
    “intends,” “anticipates,” “plans,”
    “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,”
    “will,” or words of similar meaning and include, but
    are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for our
    future business and financial performance. Forward-looking
    statements are based on management’s current expectations
    and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties,
    risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to
    predict. It is routine for our internal projections and
    expectations to change as the year or each quarter in the year
    progresses, and therefore it should be clearly understood that
    the internal projections and beliefs upon which we base our
    expectations may change prior to the end of each quarter or the
    year. Although these expectations may change, we are under no
    obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements
    contained in this report. Our company policy is generally to
    provide our expectations only once per quarter, and not to
    update that information until the next quarter. Actual future
    events or results may differ materially from those contained in
    the projections or forward-looking statements. Factors that
    could cause or contribute to such differences include those
    discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in
    Item 1A., “Risk Factors.”

Item 1.

Business

MarketAxess operates one of the leading platforms for the
    electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of
    fixed-income securities. Through our platform, 689 active
    institutional investor client firms (firms that executed at
    least one trade through our electronic trading platform between
    January 2006 and December 2006) can access the aggregate
    liquidity provided by the collective interest of our 25
    broker-dealer clients in buying or selling bonds through our
    platform. Our active institutional investor clients include
    investment advisers, mutual funds, insurance companies, public
    and private pension funds, bank portfolios and hedge funds. We
    also provide data and analytical tools that help our clients
    make trading decisions and we facilitate the trading process by
    electronically communicating order information between trading
    counterparties. Our revenues are primarily generated from the
    trading of U.S. and European high-grade corporate bonds.

Our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional
    investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable
    bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades
    with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that
    choose to respond. We offer our broker-dealer clients a solution
    that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional
    investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. In
    addition to U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European
    high-grade corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, including
    both investment-grade and non-investment grade debt, we also
    offer our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield
    bonds, agency bonds and credit default swaps. Our
    DealerAxess

®

trading service allows dealers to trade fixed-income securities
    with each other on our platform.

The majority of our revenues are derived from commissions for
    trades executed on our platform that are billed to our
    broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. We also derive
    revenues from information and user access fees, license fees,
    investment income and other income. Our expenses consist of
    employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and
    amortization, technology and communication expenses,
    professional and consulting fees, marketing and advertising and
    other general and administrative expenses.

Traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with
    product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between
    two or more parties. This traditional process has a number of
    shortcomings resulting primarily from the lack of a central
    trading facility for these securities, which creates difficulty
    matching buyers and sellers for particular issues. In recent
    years, an increasing number of corporate bond trading
    participants have utilized

e-mail

and
    other electronic means of communication for trading corporate
    bonds. While this has addressed some of the shortcomings
    associated with traditional corporate bond trading, we believe
    that the process is still hindered by limited liquidity, limited
    price transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance
    and regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous
    trades at one time.



Through our electronic platform, our institutional investor
    clients can determine prices available for a security, a process
    called price discovery, as well as trade securities directly
    with our broker-dealer clients. The price discovery process
    includes the ability to view indicative prices from the
    broker-dealer clients’ inventory available on our platform,
    access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools
    (including

spread-to-Treasury

data, search capabilities and independent credit research)
    available on our Corporate
    BondTicker

TM

service and the ability to request executable bids and offers
    simultaneously from up to 19 of our broker-dealer clients during
    the trade process. On average, institutional investor clients
    receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in
    response to trade inquiries. However, some trade inquiries may
    not receive any bids or offers. Our services relating to trade
    execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list
    trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on
    multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the
    ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to
    sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be
    executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price
    differential of the bonds. Once a trade is completed on our
    platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor
    client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated
    post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of
    trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our
    institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. We are not a
    party to the actual trades that occur on our platform between
    institutional investor clients and broker-dealer clients;
    rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and
    institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price
    and then transact with each other.

In June 2006, we introduced our
    DealerAxess

®

service, which allows our broker-dealer clients to transact
    U.S. corporate and emerging markets bond trades on our
    platform with other broker-dealer clients. Our broker-dealer
    clients can execute these trades in a more efficient manner and
    at lower transaction costs than in the traditional
    voice-brokered inter-dealer market. Although
    DealerAxess

®

is a completely segregated trading platform, it shares the same
    core technology as our

client-to-dealer

platform. MarketAxess Corporation, our U.S. subsidiary,
    acts as intermediary in these transactions between broker-dealer
    clients by serving as counterparty to the two broker-dealer
    clients involved.

Our client base includes 25 of the leading broker-dealers in
    global fixed-income trading and 689 active institutional
    investor firms (firms that executed at least one trade through
    our electronic trading platform between January 2006 and
    December 2006). Our broker-dealer clients accounted for
    approximately 96% of the underwriting of newly-issued
    U.S. high-grade corporate bonds and approximately 75% of
    the underwriting of newly issued European high-grade corporate
    bonds in 2006. We believe these broker-dealers also represent
    the principal source of secondary market liquidity in the other
    markets in which we operate. Secondary market liquidity refers
    to the ability of market participants to buy or sell a security
    quickly and in large volume subsequent to the original issuance
    of the security, without substantially affecting the price of
    the security. Our broker-dealer clients currently trade
    fixed-income securities by traditional means including
    telephone,

e-mail

and
    proprietary single-dealer systems in addition to our electronic
    trading platform and we expect them to continue to do so in the
    future. We believe that these traditional means of trading
    remain the manner in which the majority of bonds are traded
    between institutional investors and broker-dealers. Our volume
    in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds represented 8.5% of the
    total U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding
    convertible bonds, for 2006 as reported by the National
    Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) Trade
    Reporting and Compliance Engine (“TRACE”), which
    includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading
    between institutional investors and broker-dealers. We have not
    identified a reliable source of data relating to either the
    total volume of

client-to-dealer

trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore
    are unable to accurately determine the total volume of secondary
    trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading conducted
    on our platform.



Results
    for Calendar Years 2006, 2005 and 2004

Our trading volume, commissions and total revenues remained
    relatively constant from 2004 to 2005. From 2005 to 2006, our
    trading volume increased by 13.5%, commissions increased by 6.7%
    and total revenues increased by 6.1%. Income before taxes
    declined in both 2005 and 2006 compared to the prior years as a
    result of higher expenses. Expenses increased between 2005 and
    2006 by $7.7 million or 11.5%. Incremental stock
    compensation expense as a result of the implementation of
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
    (revised 2004) “Share-Based Payment”
    (“SFAS 123R”), in January of 2006 accounted for
    $3.2 million of this expense increase. Our summary results
    for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are
    provided in the following table:

Year Ended December 31,




Total trading volume (in billions)

$

339.6

$

299.2

$

298.1

Total commissions (in millions)

71.4

66.9

68.2

Total revenues (in millions)

83.3

78.6

75.8

Income before taxes (in millions)

8.6

11.6

17.3

For the year ended December 31, 2006, 57.5% of our total
    volume was in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, 25.8% was in
    European high-grade corporate bonds and 16.7% was in Other, most
    of which was emerging markets and agency bonds.

Industry
    Background

Fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments
    and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate
    of return. As of December 31, 2006, there were
    approximately $26.7 trillion of fixed-income securities
    outstanding in the U.S. market, including $5.4 trillion of
    U.S. corporate bonds. We are primarily active in six
    segments of the global fixed-income securities market:
    U.S. high-grade corporate bonds; European high-grade
    corporate bonds; emerging markets bonds; crossover and
    high-yield bonds; agency bonds; and credit default swaps.

U.S. High-Grade
    Corporate Bond Market

The total amount of U.S. corporate bonds outstanding has
    grown from $3.0 trillion as of December 31, 1999 to $5.4
    trillion as of December 31, 2006. The average daily trading
    volume of U.S. corporate bonds increased from approximately
    $17.9 billion in 2002 (the first calendar year for which
    such data are available) to $22.7 billion in 2006.

The U.S. corporate bond market consists of three broad
    categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called
    “high-grade”), which typically refers to debt rated
    BBB− or better by Standard & Poor’s or Baa3
    or better by Moody’s Investor Service; debt rated below
    investment-grade (so-called “high-yield”), which
    typically refers to debt rated lower than BBB− by
    Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor
    Service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called
    “convertible debt”).

The U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents
    the largest subset of the U.S. corporate bond market, has
    undergone significant change over the last several years, which
    has been driven by a number of factors, including:

•

Improved price transparency

— In 2002, the NASD
    adopted TRACE reporting, which requires NASD members to report
    secondary market transactions in certain fixed-income securities
    to the NASD. Since February 2005, the list of TRACE-eligible
    bonds has included 23,000 unique securities, representing 99% of
    the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds.

•

Introduction of electronic trading platforms

—
    Electronic trading platforms, which are in the early stages of
    adoption, act as central facilities to bring together buyers and
    sellers. The actions of participants on these platforms are
    facilitated by an electronic medium that improves some of the
    manual processes that might otherwise be required, such as
    searching for securities with specific characteristics, the
    coordination of multiple bilateral telephone calls or electronic
    communications, the sorting and analysis of competing bids



or offers, and the entry of orders into the trading system after
    verbal or

e-mail

trade
    agreement. As a result, these platforms typically provide a
    lower-cost and more efficient means of enhanced distribution and
    trade execution than previously possible.

•

Introduction of credit derivatives

— Credit
    derivatives provide increased flexibility and liquidity for
    investors and lenders to diversify their credit exposures. The
    appeal of these products is apparent in the growth in the total
    notional amount of outstanding credit default swaps. According
    to the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc.
    (‘ISDA’), the total notional amount of credit default
    swaps outstanding grew from approximately $900 billion at
    December 31, 2001 to approximately $26 trillion at
    June 30, 2006.

•

Growth in the total amount of debt
    outstanding

— The total size of the
    U.S. high-grade corporate bond market has increased
    significantly since 1998, when approximately $564 billion
    gross amount of new bonds were issued. By 2006, the amount of
    gross corporate issuance had grown to $1,059.9 billion, as
    illustrated in the chart below:

European
    High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The European high-grade corporate bond market consists of a
    broad range of products, issuers and currencies. We define the
    European high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist
    of bonds intended to be distributed to European investors,
    primarily bonds issued by European corporations, excluding bonds
    that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging
    markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade
    in Europe.

We believe that the European high-grade corporate bond market is
    impacted by many of the same factors as the U.S. high-grade
    corporate bond market. In addition, we believe the following
    factors are unique to the European high-grade corporate bond
    market:

•

Adoption of the Euro

— The adoption of the Euro
    as the common currency in most European Union countries has
    reduced the importance of currency as an investment selection
    criterion and elevated the importance of the credit risk of
    particular issuers. As a result, institutional investors have
    exhibited a greater interest in investing in a broader range of
    bonds issued by entities domiciled outside of their home
    countries.

•

Regulatory environment

— Certain European Union
    countries have eased restrictions that required institutional
    investors to invest primarily in domestic securities. This has
    provided European institutional investors with increased
    flexibility to invest in securities issued by entities domiciled
    in other countries within the European Union. On
    November 1, 2007, the Markets in Financial Instruments
    Directive



(“MiFID”) comes into effect. MiFID is designed to
    further harmonize the financial markets of the member states of
    the European Union and introduces new pre- and post-trade
    transparency requirements.

•

Common liquidity pool

— The larger capital pool
    created by the common currency and changes in the regulatory
    environment have enabled European corporations to offer larger
    issues, which has resulted in increases in the liquidity and
    trading volumes of these issues. This has attracted even more
    institutional investors, who prefer to invest in highly-liquid
    markets.

Emerging
    Markets Bond Market

We define the emerging markets bond market generally to include
    U.S. dollar- or Euro-denominated bonds issued by sovereign
    entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country.
    These issuers are typically located in Latin America, Asia, or
    Central and Eastern Europe. Examples of countries we classify as
    emerging markets include: Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, the
    Philippines, Russia, Turkey and Venezuela.

The institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds has
    recently expanded to include many crossover investors from the
    high-yield and high-grade investment areas. Institutional
    investors have been drawn to emerging markets bonds by their
    high returns and high growth potential, as well as by a general
    trend toward positive economic and political reforms and
    improving economic performance in many emerging markets
    countries.

Crossover
    and High-Yield Bond Market

We define the high-yield bond market generally to include all
    debt rated lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or
    Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service. We define the crossover
    market to include any debt issue rated below investment grade by
    one agency but investment grade by the other. The total amount
    of high-yield corporate bonds yearly issuance has grown from
    $130.9 billion for the year ending December 31, 2003
    to approximately $149.1 billion for the year ending
    December 31, 2006.

The NASD began publicly disseminating real-time price
    information on approximately 12,000 high-yield corporate bond
    issues in 2005. Trades in bonds rated BB and lower are subject
    to immediate dissemination if the trade size is less than
    $1 million, or greater than $1 million and trades an
    average of once or more a day. The disseminated set was expanded
    on February 1, 2005 to include reporting of certain
    transactions on a delayed basis. The average daily trading
    volume of high-yield bonds reported by the NASD for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 was $4.8 billion.

Agency
    Bond Market

We define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a
    U.S. government-sponsored agency. The offerings of these
    agencies are backed by, but not guaranteed by, the
    U.S. government. Some prominent issuers of agency bonds are
    the Student Loan Marketing Association (“Sallie Mae”),
    Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”)
    and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie
    Mac”). The total amount of U.S. agency bonds outstanding
    has grown from $1.9 trillion as of December 31, 2000
    to $2.7 trillion as of December 31, 2006.

The Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported average daily
    trading volume in federal agency and government sponsored
    enterprise securities (excluding mortgage-backed securities) for
    2006 of $15.6 billion.



Credit
    Default Swap Market

Credit default swaps (“CDS”) are contracts that
    transfer an asset’s risk and return from one party to
    another without transferring ownership of the underlying asset,
    allowing market participants to obtain credit protection or
    assume credit exposure associated with a broad range of issuers
    of fixed-income securities and other debt obligations. They are
    often designed to hedge other exposures and can be tied to
    particular events, such as a default, bankruptcy or ratings
    downgrade. CDS provide increased flexibility and liquidity for
    investors and lenders to diversify their credit risk.
    Approximately half of the volume traded in CDS is index
    products, which give exposure to a defined basket of underlying
    credit default swaps. The remainder is traded in single-name
    CDS. The appeal of these products is apparent in the growth in
    the total notional amount of outstanding CDS, as illustrated in
    the chart below:

Our
    Competitive Strengths

Our electronic trading platform provides solutions to some of
    the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. The
    benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading
    cycle:

•

Pre-trade

— gathering real-time and historical
    pricing information, identifying interested buyers and sellers
    in a particular security, and obtaining research and analysis;

•

Trade

— single and multiple security trade
    execution; and

•

Post-trade

— trade detail matching, account
    allocation and automated audit trail.

We believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market
    position in electronic trading in our existing products and to
    extend our presence into new products and services by
    capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including:

Significant
    Trading Volumes with Participation by Leading Broker-Dealers and
    Institutional Investors

Our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity
    provided through the participation on our platform of 25 of the
    leading global securities broker-dealers and 689 active
    institutional investor firms (firms that executed at least one
    trade through our electronic trading platform between January
    2006 and December 2006). We believe these broker-dealers
    represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for
    U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European high-grade
    corporate bonds, emerging markets bonds and the other markets in
    which we operate. Our broker-dealer clients are motivated to
    continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the



platform of our large network of institutional investor clients.
    We believe that if we continue to grow the participation of our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients on our
    electronic trading platform, the benefits in liquidity on the
    platform to both broker-dealers and institutional investors will
    be amplified, further motivating them to use our platform. The
    growth of our active institutional investor clients for the past
    five years has been as follows:

Our total trading volume has grown over the past five years as
    indicated below:



Our volume in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds grew from
    6.4% of total U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume,
    excluding convertible bonds, in 2004 as reported by NASD TRACE,
    which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as
    trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers, to
    8.5% in 2006, as shown in the chart below:

We have not identified a reliable source of data relating to
    either the total volume of

client-to-dealer

trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore
    we are unable to accurately determine the total volume of
    secondary trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading
    conducted on our platform.

Execution
    Benefits to Clients

Benefits
    to Institutional Investor Clients

We believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional
    investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods,
    including:

Competitive Prices.

By enabling institutional
    investors to simultaneously request bids or offers from our
    broker-dealer clients, we believe our electronic trading
    platform creates an environment that motivates our broker-dealer
    clients to provide competitive prices and gives institutional
    investors confidence that they are obtaining a competitive
    price. For typical MarketAxess multi-dealer corporate bond
    inquiries, the range of competitive

spread-to-Treasury

responses is, on average, approximately 10 basis points (a
    basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). As an example of the
    potential cost savings to institutional investors, a one basis
    point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond
    with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings
    of approximately $750.00.

Transparent Pricing on a Range of
    Securities.

The commingled multi-dealer inventory
    of bonds posted by our broker-dealer clients on our platform
    consists of a daily average of more than $136 billion in
    indicative bids and offers. Subject to applicable regulatory
    requirements, institutional investors can search bonds in
    inventory based on any combination of issuer, issue, rating,
    maturity,

spread-to-Treasury,

size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time
    it takes to do so manually. Institutional investor clients can
    also request executable bids and offers on our electronic
    trading platform on any debt security in a database of U.S. and
    European corporate bonds, although there can be no assurance as
    to the number of broker-dealers who will choose to provide an
    executable price. Our platform transmits bid and offer requests
    in real-time to broker-dealer clients, who may respond with
    executable prices within a time period specified by the investor.

Improved Cost Efficiency.

We believe that we
    provide improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor
    required to conduct broad product and price discovery.
    Single-security and multi-security (bid or offer lists)



inquiries can be efficiently conducted with multiple
    broker-dealers. In addition, our Corporate BondTicker eliminates
    the need for manually-intensive phone calls or

e-mail

communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning
    historical transaction prices.

Benefits
    to Broker-Dealer Clients

We also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer
    clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including:

Greater Sales Efficiency.

We offer our
    broker-dealer clients broad connectivity with their
    institutional investor clients. Through this connectivity, our
    broker-dealer clients are able to efficiently display their
    indications of interest to buy and sell various securities. We
    also enable broker-dealers to broaden their distribution by
    participating in transactions to which they otherwise may not
    have had access. In addition, the ability to post prices and
    electronically execute on straightforward trades enables bond
    sales professionals at broker-dealer firms to focus their
    efforts on more profitable activities, such as higher
    value-added trades and more complex transactions.

More Efficient Inventory Management for
    Broker-Dealers.

The posting of inventory to, and
    the ability to respond to inquiries from, a broad pool of
    institutional investors, creates an increased opportunity for
    broker-dealers to identify demand for their inventory,
    particularly in less liquid securities. As a result, we believe
    they can achieve enhanced bond inventory turnover, which may
    limit credit exposure.

Benefits
    to Both Institutional Investor and Broker-Dealer
    Clients

We offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income
    trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor
    and broker-dealer clients, including:

Greater Trading Accuracy.

Our electronic
    trading platform includes verification mechanisms at various
    stages of the execution process which result in greater accuracy
    in the processing, confirming and clearing of trades between
    institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. These
    verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending
    accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to
    verify they are trading the correct bond, at the

agreed-upon

price and size. Our platform assists our institutional investor
    clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the
    portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to
    back-office personnel. This automation provides more timely
    execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can
    result from information being manually entered into different
    systems.

Efficient Risk Monitoring and
    Compliance.

Institutional investors and their
    regulators are increasingly focused on ensuring that best
    execution is achieved for fixed income trades. Our electronic
    trading platform offers both institutional investors and
    broker-dealers an automated audit trail for each stage in the
    trading cycle. This enables compliance personnel to review
    information relating to trades more easily and with greater
    reliability. Trade information including time, price and

spread-to-Treasury

is stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading
    platform. These data also represent a valuable source of
    information for our clients’ compliance personnel.
    Importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with
    the competitive pricing that is a feature of our electronic
    trading platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate
    that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their
    clients.

Other
    Service Offerings

In addition to services directly related to the execution of
    trades, we offer our clients several other services, including:

Information Services.

The information and
    analytical tools we provide to our clients help them make
    investment and trading decisions. Our Corporate BondTicker
    provides access to real-time and historical price, yield and
    MarketAxess estimated

spread-to-Treasuries

for publicly disseminated NASD TRACE-eligible bonds. Corporate
    BondTicker combines publicly-available TRACE data with the
    prices for trades executed on our U.S. high-grade
    electronic trading platform, integrating the two data sources
    and providing real-time TRACE data with associated analytical
    tools that are not otherwise available. In addition, Corporate
    BondTicker provides indicative prices for secondary loans and
    credit default swaps, through arrangements with certain of our
    broker-dealer clients,



and independent credit research. Our electronic trading platform
    allows institutional investors to compile, sort and use
    information to discover investment opportunities that might have
    been difficult or impossible to identify using a manual
    information gathering process or other electronic services.

In November 2006, we added a comprehensive set of reports
    designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for
    institutional investor clients. It utilizes extensive TRACE
    information and has a flexible interface to run and save reports
    in a variety of formats for both compliance and management
    reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a
    view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic
    trading platform and offers a quantitative measure of the value
    of price discovery from multiple dealers. The report allows
    clients to monitor performance against their own best execution
    policy. Our compliance product provides a printed history of
    each inquiry submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

Straight-Through Processing.

Straight-through
    processing (“STP”) refers to the integration of
    systems and processes to automate the trade process from

end-to-end —

trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without
    the need for manual intervention. Our electronic trading
    platform provides broker-dealers and institutional investors
    with the ability to automate portions of their transaction
    processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency.
    Through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit
    inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of execution from
    us, in industry standard protocols, complete with all relevant
    trade details. Institutional investors can download trade
    messages, allocate trades to

sub-accounts

on whose behalf the trades were made and send the allocations to
    broker-dealers for confirmation.

Robust,
    Scalable Technology Platform

We have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure,
    fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current
    operations, as well as for substantial growth. Our highly
    scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume,
    products and clients with relatively little modification and low
    incremental costs.

Proven
    Innovator with an Experienced Management Team

Since our inception, we have been an innovator in the
    fixed-income securities markets. Our management team is
    comprised of executives with an average of more than
    20 years’ experience in the securities industry. We
    have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets
    we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of
    fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships
    between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients,
    while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional
    trading methods. In 2006,

Credit

magazine recognized
    MarketAxess as “Best Multi-dealer Corporate Bond Trading
    Platform” in Europe.

Some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading
    include:

•

the first multi-dealer disclosed trading platform for
    U.S. high-grade corporate bonds;

•

the first electronic Treasury benchmarking for
    U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades;

•

Corporate BondTicker, our information services product,
    combining NASD TRACE bond data with MarketAxess data and
    analytical tools;

•

bid and offer list technology for corporate bond trading,
    enabling institutional investors to request executable prices
    for multiple securities simultaneously;

•

the first

client-to-dealer

trading platform for CDS indices, enabling

same-day

confirmation of new and assigned trades through the Depository
    Trust and Clearing Corporation; and

•

DealerAxess

®

,
    an innovative

dealer-to-dealer

electronic trading platform for U.S. high-grade corporate
    and emerging market bonds.



Our
    Strategy

Our objective is to provide the leading global electronic
    trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting
    broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and
    efficiently, while offering a broad array of services to market
    participants across the trading cycle. The key elements of our
    strategy are:

Enhance
    the Liquidity of Securities Traded on Our Platform and Broaden
    Our Client Base in Our Existing Markets

We intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded
    on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income
    platform. Our ability to innovate and efficiently add new
    functionality and product offerings to the MarketAxess platform
    will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients,
    as well as expand our client base, which we believe will in turn
    lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the
    securities provided by our broker-dealer clients and available
    on our platform. We will seek to make our current product
    offerings on our European electronic trading platform available
    to our 460 active U.S. institutional investor clients
    (firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic
    trading platform between January 2006 and December
    2006) and to increase the number of active European
    institutional investor clients (229 firms that executed at least
    one trade through our electronic trading platform between
    January 2006 and December 2006) using our
    U.S. electronic trading platform, in each case subject to
    regulatory requirements.

Leverage
    our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into
    New Sectors of the Fixed-Income Securities Market

We intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong
    broker-dealer and institutional investor relationships, to
    deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product
    segments within the fixed-income securities market. Due in part
    to our highly scalable systems, we believe we will be able to
    enter new markets efficiently.

Leverage
    our Existing Technology and Client Relationships to Expand into
    New Client Segments

We intend to leverage our technology and client relationships to
    deploy our electronic trading platform into new client segments.
    For example, we believe that the launch of CDS index trading on
    our platform will enable us to increase volumes from our hedge
    fund clients, as this client segment is an active user of CDS.
    As another example, in June 2006 we introduced our
    DealerAxess

®

service, which allows our broker-dealer clients to transact
    U.S. corporate and emerging markets bond trades on our
    platform with other broker-dealer clients.

Continue
    to Strengthen and Expand our Trade-Related Service
    Offerings

We plan to continue building our existing service offerings so
    that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated
    into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients. We also plan to continue to add functionality
    to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully
    automated,

end-to-end

straight-through processing solution (automation from trade
    initiation to settlement). We are continually considering the
    introduction of new trading techniques. As an example, we have
    the technology necessary to offer an anonymous trading protocol
    that could be exported to other markets and sectors of
    fixed-income securities if and when client demand for such a
    product arises.

Expand
    our Data and Information Services Offerings

We regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to
    Corporate BondTicker in order to improve the value of the
    information we provide to our clients. Examples of added content
    include pricing for syndicated loans and credit derivatives, and
    independent credit research. We intend to enter into
    distribution agreements with information and data services
    companies in order to widen the user base of our data products
    and to continue adding new content and analytical capabilities.
    In July 2005, we entered into an agreement with Interactive Data
    Corporation, through its subsidiary, FT Interactive Data, to
    promote and market Corporate BondTicker. We expect this and
    other distribution partnerships to broaden our presence in the
    marketplace and increase our brand awareness. We intend to seek
    out additional market leaders in various segments of the
    securities industry and leverage their existing customer bases
    and distribution channels to further our data services market
    penetration.



We introduced compliance reporting tools for our institutional
    investor clients in November 2006 that assist them in monitoring
    best execution requirements for fixed income trades.

As the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow,
    we believe that the amount and value of our proprietary trading
    data will also increase, further enhancing the value of our
    information services offerings to our clients.

Pursue
    Strategic Alliances and Select Acquisitions

We plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal
    growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring
    businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new
    markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance
    the value of our platform to our clients.

MarketAxess
    Electronic Trading Platform

Current

Client-to-Dealer

Markets

U.S. High-Grade
    Corporate Bonds

Our U.S. high-grade corporate bond business consists of
    U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by
    corporations for distribution in the U.S. Institutional
    investors based in the U.S., as well as institutional investors
    located in the U.K., Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, Sweden,
    Norway, Hong Kong and Singapore, have access to
    U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic
    trading platform. Investment-grade debt typically refers to debt
    rated BBB− or better by Standard & Poor’s
    and Baa3 or better by Moody’s Investor Service. We use the
    terms high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably
    in this annual report on

Form 10-K.

Our trading volume in the U.S. high-grade corporate bond
    market increased from $10.0 billion in 2001 to
    $195.4 billion in 2006. The majority of trading in
    U.S. high-grade corporate bonds is still conducted by
    telephone.

In the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, 19
    broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 17 of the top 20
    broker-dealers as ranked by 2006 new-issue underwriting volume.
    The 19 broker-dealers who utilize our U.S. high-grade
    platform are: ABN AMRO, Banc of America Securities, Barclays
    PLC, Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas, Citigroup Global Markets, Credit
    Suisse, Deutsche Bank Securities, FTN Financial, Goldman Sachs,
    HSBC, JPMorgan, Jefferies and Company, Lehman Brothers, Merrill
    Lynch, Morgan Stanley, The Royal Bank of Scotland, UBS and
    Wachovia Securities.

Four hundred sixty active institutional investor clients (firms
    that executed at least one trade through our electronic trading
    platform between January 2006 and December 2006) utilize
    our electronic trading platform to trade U.S. high-grade
    corporate bonds. We offer our institutional investor clients
    access to a broad inventory of U.S. high-grade corporate
    bonds, which is provided and updated daily by our broker-dealer
    clients. Our electronic trading platform is a multi-dealer
    disclosed counterparty model, which allows institutional
    investors to view bids and offers from one or more of our
    broker-dealer clients while permitting each party to know the
    identity of its counter-party throughout the trading process. By
    disclosing the counterparties, the inquiry system on which our
    trading platform is based combines the strength of existing
    offline client/dealer relationships with the efficiency and
    transparency of an electronic trading platform. This enables
    institutional investors to instantly direct trade inquiries and
    negotiations to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the
    overwhelming majority of the world’s leading broker-dealers
    who provide liquidity in these securities. Institutional
    investors have access to the commingled inventory of our
    broker-dealer clients, representing indicative bids and offers.
    Each line item of inventory represents an indicative bid

and/or

offer
    on a particular bond issue by a particular broker-dealer client.
    Institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading
    only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of the trades
    conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. To
    transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory,
    institutional investors can easily search our database and
    submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can
    respond with live, executable prices. In a single inquiry,
    institutional investors can request bids or offers from up to
    all 19 of our U.S. broker-dealer clients. While, on
    average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or
    offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some
    inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.



European
    High-Grade Corporate Bonds

The European high-grade corporate bond market consists of a
    broad range of products, issuers and currencies. We define the
    European high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist
    of bonds intended to be distributed to European investors,
    primarily bonds issued by European corporations, excluding bonds
    that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging
    markets country and most government bonds that trade in Europe.
    Examples include:

•

bonds issued by European corporations, denominated in any
    currency;

•

bonds generally denominated in Euros, U.S. dollars or
    Pounds Sterling, excluding bonds that are issued by a
    corporation domiciled in an emerging market;

•

bonds issued by supra-national organizations (entities that
    include a number of central banks or government financial
    authorities, such as the World Bank), agencies and governments
    located in Europe, generally denominated in Euros,
    U.S. dollars or Pounds Sterling, provided that such
    currency is not the currency of the country where the bond was
    issued; and

•

floating-rate notes issued by European corporations.

MarketAxess Europe Limited, our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary,
    commenced trading operations in August 2001. MarketAxess Europe
    Limited received Financial Services Authority (“FSA”)
    regulatory approval and began to offer European secondary
    trading functionality in U.S. dollar- and Euro-denominated
    European corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients in September 2001. In 2003, we added trading in
    other European high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds
    issued in Pounds Sterling and floating rate notes. As on our
    U.S. electronic trading platform, all trading on our
    European platform is done using a multi-dealer disclosed
    counterparty model. We offered the first platform in Europe with
    this capability for corporate bonds.

In the European high-grade credit market, 20 broker-dealers
    utilize our platform, including 16 of the top 20 broker-dealers
    as ranked by 2006 new-issue underwriting volume of European
    corporate bonds. The 20 broker-dealers who utilize our European
    platform are: ABN AMRO, Banc of America Securities, Barclays
    PLC, Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas, Citigroup Global Markets, Credit
    Suisse, Deutsche Bank Securities, Dresdner Bank AG, DZ Bank AG,
    Goldman Sachs, HSBC, JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch,
    Morgan Stanley, RBC Capital Markets, The Royal Bank of Scotland,
    SG Corporate and Investment Banking and UBS.

The 229 active institutional investor clients (firms that
    executed at least one trade through our European electronic
    trading platform between January 2006 and December
    2006) that utilize our platform for trading European
    high-grade corporate bonds are based outside of the U.S. On
    a typical day, institutional investors on our European corporate
    bond trading platform have access to 18,000 line items of
    commingled inventory, representing an aggregate of approximately
    $90 billion of indicative bids and offers. In a single
    inquiry, institutional investors can request bids or offers from
    up to six of the broker-dealers who participate on the European
    platform. While many of the trades conducted on our platform are
    made from the posted inventory, institutional investor clients
    are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as
    inventory. To transact in a specific bond that does not appear
    in inventory, institutional investors can easily search our
    database and submit an online inquiry to their chosen
    broker-dealers, who can respond with live, executable prices.
    While, on average, institutional investor clients receive
    several bids or offers from broker-dealers in response to trade
    inquiries, some inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.
    Our 2006 trading volume in the European high-grade corporate
    bond market was $87.6 billion. We have not identified a
    reliable source of data relating to the total volume of

client-to-dealer

trading in the European high-grade corporate bond market and,
    therefore, we are unable to determine the portion of this
    trading that takes place on our platform. The majority of
    trading in European high-grade corporate bonds is currently
    conducted by telephone.

Emerging
    Markets Bonds

We define the emerging markets bond market generally to include
    U.S. dollar- or Euro-denominated bonds issued by sovereign
    entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country.
    These issuers are typically located in Latin America and Eastern
    Europe. The emerging markets countries whose bonds were most
    frequently traded on our platform in 2006 were Brazil, Mexico,
    Argentina, Russia and Venezuela.



Eighteen of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform
    to trade emerging markets bonds. Institutional investor clients
    can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to eight of these 18
    participating broker-dealer clients. While, on average,
    institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers
    from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some
    inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

We have not identified a reliable source of data relating to the
    total volume of

client-to-dealer

trading in emerging markets bonds and, therefore, we are unable
    to determine the portion of this trading that is taking place on
    our platform. The majority of trading in emerging markets bonds
    is currently conducted by telephone.

Crossover
    and High-Yield Bonds

We define the high-yield bond market generally to include all
    debt rated lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or
    Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service. We define the crossover
    market to include any debt issue rated below investment grade by
    one agency but investment grade by the other. The total amount
    of high-yield corporate bonds yearly issuance has grown from
    $130.9 billion as of December 31, 2003 to
    approximately $149.1 billion as of December 31, 2006.

Eighteen of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform
    to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. Institutional investor
    clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to all 18 of
    the participating broker-dealer clients.

The average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds reported by
    the NASD for the year ended December 31, 2006 was
    $4.8 billion.

Agency
    Bonds

We define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a
    U.S. government-sponsored agency. The offerings of these
    agencies are backed by, but not guaranteed by, the
    U.S. government. Some prominent issuers of agency bonds are
    Sallie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The total amount of
    U.S. agency bonds outstanding has grown from $1.9 trillion
    as of December 31, 2000 to $2.7 trillion as of
    December 31, 2006.

Ten of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to
    trade agency bonds. Institutional investor clients can direct an
    inquiry simultaneously to up to all ten of the participating
    broker-dealer clients.

The Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported average daily
    trading volume in federal agency and government sponsored
    enterprise securities (excluding mortgage-backed securities) for
    2006 of $15.6 billion.

Credit
    Default Swaps

We launched CDS index trading on our platform in September 2005
    and added the capacity to trade lists of single-name CDS in
    November 2006. In addition to the trading features, the index
    trading platform provides basic STP connectivity to dealers,
    clients and the Depository Trust & Clearing
    Corporation’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Deriv/SERV, a
    full-service provider of automated trade processing solutions in
    the OTC derivatives market. We also subscribe to Markit Group
    Limited’s RED service, the industry standard for reference
    entity and reference obligation identifiers in the credit
    derivatives market. The Markit RED data will help us achieve
    straight-through processing for its institutional investor
    clients from pre-trade through confirmation.

Fourteen of our U.S. broker-dealer clients are live on our
    platform to trade CDS indices and nine for CDS single-name lists.

Current

Dealer-to-Dealer

Markets

U.S. High-Grade
    Corporate Bonds

In the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, 19
    broker-dealers utilize our
    DealerAxess

®

platform to trade with each other. These dealers include 17 of
    the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2006 new-issue
    underwriting volume.
    DealerAxess

®

provides live inter-dealer markets utilizing proprietary
    cross-matching technology.



Although
    DealerAxess

®

is a completely segregated trading platform, it shares the same
    core technology as our

client-to-dealer

platform.

The platform provides a documented record of orders and executed
    trades with reporting that enables broker-dealer clients to
    track, analyze and evaluate their inter-dealer trading.
    Straight-through processing is available to reduce manual tasks
    and lower the number of errors.

We estimate that inter-dealer trading represents approximately
    25% of the reported NASD TRACE volume in U.S. high-grade
    corporate bonds. In 2006, the reported NASD TRACE volume for
    U.S. high-grade corporate bonds was $2.6 trillion. The
    majority of inter-dealer trading in U.S. high-grade
    corporate bonds is currently conducted by telephone through
    voice brokers.

Trades on
    DealerAxess

®

are conducted with MarketAxess as riskless principal. Trades are
    cleared and settled by an independent clearing broker.

Emerging
    Markets Bonds

Twelve of our broker-dealer clients use our
    DealerAxess

®

platform to trade emerging markets bonds with each other. The
    platform is primarily utilized for transactions in U.S. dollar
    denominated bonds issued by Latin American governments. Many of
    the same features available on
    DealerAxess

®

for the trading of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds are available
    for emerging markets bonds.

We have not identified a reliable source of data relating to the
    total volume of inter-dealer trading in emerging markets bonds
    and, therefore, we are unable to determine the portion of this
    trading that is taking place on our platform. The majority of
    inter-dealer trading in emerging markets bonds is currently
    conducted by telephone through voice brokers.

Key
    Trading Functionalities

We currently offer both disclosed inquiry trading on our

client-to-dealer

platform and an anonymous cross matching style of trading on our

dealer-to-dealer

platform. Our
    DealerAxess

®

dealer-to-dealer

trading platform provides anonymous live markets with executable
    bids and offers posted by participating dealers that are matched
    using proprietary cross-matching technology. The key trading
    functionalities on our

client-to-dealer

trading platform are detailed below.

Single
    Inquiry Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to
    request bids or offers in a single inquiry from up to 19 of our
    broker-dealer clients for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds,
    from up to six of our broker-dealer clients for European
    high-grade corporate bonds and from up to eight of our
    broker-dealer clients in emerging markets bonds. Institutional
    investors can obtain bids or offers on any security posted in
    inventory or included in the database available on our platform.

ASAP and
    Holding Bin Trading Functionalities

We provide both ASAP (“as soon as possible”) and
    Holding Bin trading protocols. In the Holding Bin trading
    protocols, institutional investor clients set the time when they
    would like all of the broker-dealers’ prices or spreads
    returned to them, in order to have the ability to see all
    executable prices available at the same time. In the ASAP
    trading protocol, institutional investor clients see each
    broker-dealer’s price or spread as soon as it is entered by
    the broker-dealer.

List
    Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to
    request bids or offers on a list of bonds, with the number of
    different bonds on each list varying between 8 and 25 items
    depending on the market. This facilitates efficient trading for
    institutional investors such as mutual funds and hedge funds.
    Institutional investors are able to have



multiple lists executable throughout the trading day, enabling
    them to manage their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and
    credit and sector exposure.

Swap
    Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to
    request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another
    bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed
    simultaneously, with payment based on the price or yield
    differential of the securities.

Information
    and Analytical Tools

Corporate
    BondTicker

tm

Corporate BondTicker provides real-time NASD TRACE data and
    enhances it with MarketAxess trade data and analytical tools to
    provide professional market participants with a comprehensive
    set of corporate bond price information. The data include trade
    time and sales information, including execution prices, as well
    as MarketAxess-estimated

spread-to-Treasuries,

for trades disseminated by the NASD TRACE system. The data also
    include actual execution prices and

spread-to-Treasury

levels for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades executed
    on the MarketAxess platform. Corporate BondTicker allows
    institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon
    specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction,
    spread change, issuer or security. This search function allows
    institutional investors to compile information relating to
    potential securities trades in a fraction of the time that it
    takes to manually compile this information from disparate
    sources or other electronic databases, including direct TRACE
    feeds. In addition, Corporate BondTicker provides independent
    credit research, as well as indicative prices for secondary
    markets in loans and credit default swaps.

TRACE facilitates the mandatory reporting of

over-the-counter

secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income
    securities. All broker-dealers that are NASD member firms have
    an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to TRACE
    under a set of rules approved by the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The NASD then publicly
    disseminates a portion of this data, which is available free of
    charge on a delayed basis through the NASD website or available
    immediately for a set fee.

Corporate BondTicker is integrated directly into the MarketAxess
    electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed,
    either when viewing securities inventory or when launching an
    inquiry. Corporate BondTicker is also available through the
    Internet for non-trading professional market participants,
    including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies,
    who can log in and access the information via an

easy-to-use

browser-based interface.

We provide Corporate BondTicker as an ancillary service to our
    trading clients and also to other industry participants. We
    derive revenues from our Corporate BondTicker service by
    charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and
    institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements
    with other information service providers and through bulk data
    sales to third parties. Seat license fees from institutional
    investor clients are waived for clients that transact a
    sufficient volume of trades through MarketAxess.

Additional analytical capabilities of our information services
    offerings aim to provide clients with more information about
    bond prices and market activity, including asset swap spreads,
    turnover percentage and liquidity ratios. These statistics
    measure a security’s trading activity relative to its
    amount outstanding and relative to the overall market,
    respectively, providing an additional perspective on relative
    liquidity. In addition, we provide pricing measures to help
    institutional investors better assess the relative value of a
    corporate bond, providing more consistent relative pricing
    information for institutional investors, such as offering spread
    data versus the interest rate swap curve and versus the
    U.S. Treasury curve. Users are also able to download a
    variety of MarketAxess-compiled trade reports containing a
    comprehensive review of trading activity. Corporate BondTicker
    is currently the source of corporate bond trading information
    for

The Wall Street Journal.

In November 2006, we added a comprehensive set of reports
    designed to review and monitor credit trading activity for
    institutional investor clients. It utilizes extensive TRACE
    information and has a flexible interface to run and save reports
    in a variety of formats for both compliance and management
    reporting. For example, the best execution report provides a
    view of the savings generated by trading on our electronic
    trading platform and offers a



quantitative measure of the value of price discovery from
    multiple dealers. The report allows clients to monitor
    performance against their own best execution policy. Our
    compliance product provides a printed history of each inquiry
    submitted through the MarketAxess trading platform.

My
    Portfolio

Institutional investors are able to upload their corporate bond
    portfolio onto our electronic trading platform utilizing the
    “My Portfolio” trading feature. Institutional
    investors who utilize “My Portfolio” benefit from the
    ability to automatically match inventory on our platform to
    bonds held in their portfolio, allowing them to more efficiently
    launch an inquiry and transact in these securities. Users of
    this feature can also directly access Corporate BondTicker to
    obtain the trading history of the securities in their portfolio.

Straight-Through
    Processing

Straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems
    and processes to automate the trade process from

end-to-end —

trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without
    the need for manual intervention. There are two elements of
    straight-through processing: internal straight-through
    processing and external straight-through processing. Internal
    straight-through processing relates to the trade and settlement
    processes that are internal to an industry participant. For
    example, in the case of an institutional investor, this includes
    authorization of orders, placement of orders with
    broker-dealers, receipt of execution details and allocation of
    trades. External straight-through processing refers to
    connecting seamlessly to all external counterparts in the
    trading and settlement process.

Automation by way of straight-through processing improves the
    efficiency of the trade cycle. We provide broker-dealers and
    institutional investors with a range of tools that facilitate
    straight-through processing, including order upload,

easy-to-use

online allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging
    features that enable institutional investors to communicate
    electronically between front- and back-office systems, thereby
    integrating the order, portfolio management and accounting
    systems of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients
    in real time. Our straight-through processing tools can be
    customized to meet specific needs of clients. We continue to
    build industry partnerships to assist our clients in creating
    connectivity throughout the trade cycle. Through these
    partnerships, we are increasingly providing solutions that can
    quickly be deployed within our clients’ trading operations.

Usage of our straight-through processing tools increased
    significantly during 2006. In our U.S. high-grade corporate
    bond business between 2005 and 2006, the number of orders
    uploaded electronically increased from 5,459 to 32,056. The
    number of online allocations increased from 58,847 to 83,469 and
    the number of completed trades delivered to institutional
    investor clients through our post-trade messaging functionality
    increased from 17.5% to 53.2% of total volume.

Dealer
    API

We offer Application Program Interface (API) services to our
    broker-dealer clients for pre-trade, trade negotiation and
    post-trade services. This allows for straight-through
    processing, which improves efficiency and reduces errors in
    processing.



Dependence
    on Our Broker-Dealer Clients Who Are Also Our
    Stockholders

Revenues

We have historically earned the majority of our commissions and
    revenues from nine broker-dealer clients (ABN Amro, BNP Paribas,
    Banc of America, Bear Stearns, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank,
    JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers and UBS) that were (or whose
    affiliates were) also our stockholders as of January 1,
    2006. Affiliates of most of our broker-dealer clients are also
    among our institutional investor clients. Information relating
    to the percentage of our commissions and the percentage of our
    revenues generated by these nine broker-dealer clients is
    provided in the chart below:

Year Ended December 31,




Percentage of commissions

49.9

%

54.7

%

57.7

%

Percentage of total revenues

46.0

%

49.7

%

53.6

%

As of December 31, 2006, these nine broker-dealer clients
    owned 10,748,233 shares or 31.6% of our common stock on a
    diluted basis, assuming conversion of our non-voting common
    stock and exercise of warrants in exchange for common stock. To
    the extent that some or all of these broker-dealer clients or
    their affiliates vote similarly, they are likely to be able to
    influence decisions requiring approval by our stockholders.

Our broker-dealer clients are not restricted from buying and
    selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own
    proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional
    investors. For more information, see “Item 1A.,

Risk Factors

— Risk Factors That May Affect
    Future Results — We are dependent on our broker-dealer
    clients, nine of which were also our stockholders as of
    January 1, 2006, who are not restricted from buying and
    selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own
    proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional
    investors.”

Board
    of Directors

We currently have nine directors, eight of whom are not our
    employees. Of the eight non-employee directors, two are
    employees of entities that are affiliates of broker-dealer
    clients and stockholders of MarketAxess, although these entities
    do not have the contractual right to designate members of our
    Board of Directors.

Other
    Businesses

Our broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income
    securities by means other than our electronic trading platform
    and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. Our
    broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities
    directly with their clients through traditional bond trading
    methods, including telephone conversations,

e-mail

messaging and other electronic means of communication, including
    proprietary, single-dealer systems.

We cannot be assured that such broker-dealers’ primary
    commitments will not be to one of our competitors. Other
    companies, including some in which certain of our broker-dealer
    clients or their affiliates have invested, have developed
    electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention
    to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that
    compete or will compete with us. Furthermore, our broker-dealer
    clients or their affiliates have made, or may in the future make
    investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses
    that directly or indirectly compete with us.

Conflicts
    of Interest

Information concerning the potential conflicts of interest that
    may arise as a result of the various roles (broker-dealer client
    and stockholder) played by certain of our broker-dealer clients,
    please see “Item 1A.,

Risk Factors

—
    Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results — Risks
    Related to the Potential Conflicts of Interest With Our
    Broker-Dealer Clients Who Are Also Our Stockholders.”



Sales
    and Marketing

We promote our products and services using a variety of direct
    and indirect sales and marketing strategies. Our sales force is
    organized into four teams: U.S. client sales, European
    client sales, U.S. dealer relations and European dealer
    relations. They are responsible for client acquisition activity
    and for increasing use of our platform by our existing clients.
    Their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on
    how to use the system and to educate them as to the benefits of
    utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. We employ
    various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing,
    promotional mailings and participation in industry conferences,
    to increase awareness of our brand and our electronic trading
    platform. For example, we have worked with

The Wall Street
    Journal

to establish Corporate BondTicker as the source of
    information for its daily corporate bond and high-yield tables.

Competition

The electronic trading industry is highly competitive and we
    expect competition to intensify in the future. We face four main
    areas of competition:

•

Telephone

— We compete with bond trading
    business conducted over the telephone between broker-dealers and
    their institutional investor clients. Institutional investors
    have historically purchased fixed-income securities by
    telephoning bond sales professionals at one or more
    broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of
    individual bonds. This remains the manner in which the majority
    of corporate bonds are still traded between institutional
    investors and broker-dealers.

•

E-mail

—
    We compete with bond trading business conducted via

e-mail

between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients.

E-mail

provides an efficient means of initiating product and price
    discovery with a large universe of potential trading partners.

•

Other electronic trading platforms

— There are
    numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in
    existence. These include Thomson TradeWeb, a multi-dealer to
    institutional investor trading platform that has historically
    focused on government bond trading, and Bloomberg, which
    provides electronic trading functionality. In 2002, Thomson
    TradeWeb launched an electronic corporate bond trading platform.
    In addition, some broker-dealers operate proprietary electronic
    trading systems that enable institutional investors to trade
    directly with a broker-dealer over an electronic medium. We
    believe that we are currently the only platform primarily
    focused on multi-party disclosed trading of credit products
    between broker-dealers and institutional investors, though
    others have or may seek to expand their product offerings to
    compete in this market. Additionally, as we expand our business
    into new products, we will likely come into more direct
    competition with other electronic trading platforms or firms
    offering traditional services. For instance, our
    DealerAxess

®

platform competes with services offered by voice brokerage firms
    including BGC Partners L.P., GFI Group Inc., ICAP plc and Tullet
    Prebon plc.

•

Market data and information vendors

— Several
    large market data and information providers currently have a
    data and analytics relationship with virtually every
    institutional firm. Some of these entities currently offer
    varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities,
    mostly on a single-dealer basis. Some of these entities have
    announced their intention to expand their electronic trading
    platforms or to develop new platforms. These entities are
    currently direct competitors to our information services and may
    in the future become direct competitors to our electronic
    trading platform.

Competitors, including companies in which some of our
    broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic
    trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore
    the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or
    will compete with us. Furthermore, our broker-dealer clients
    have made, or may in the future make investments in or enter
    into agreements with other businesses that directly or
    indirectly compete with us.

In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors,
    including:

•

liquidity provided on the electronic trading platform;

•

magnitude and frequency of price improvement;



•

facilitating the quality and speed of execution;

•

total transaction costs;

•

technology capabilities, including the ease of use of our
    electronic trading platform; and

•

range of products and services offered.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these
    factors. Our trading volume and client acceptance have grown
    over the past three years and we continue to proactively build
    technology solutions that serve the needs of the credit markets.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and
    integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor
    clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems.
    We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we
    serve in the development of our platform, working closely with
    our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs.

Our broker-dealer clients have invested in building application
    programming interfaces with us for inventory contributions,
    electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and
    post-trade messaging. We believe that we have successfully built
    deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level
    of service to them while at the same time increasing their
    commitment to our services.

Furthermore, approximately 100 of our institutional investor
    clients have built interfaces to enable them to communicate
    electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio
    management and accounting systems. We believe that this
    increases the commitment of these institutional investor clients
    to our services.

Many of our current and potential competitors are more
    established and substantially larger than we are and have
    substantially greater market presence, as well as greater
    financial, engineering, technical, marketing and other
    resources. These competitors may aggressively reduce their
    pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a
    leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses
    with profits from trading in other securities. In addition, many
    of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader
    name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. Some
    of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving
    opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we
    can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional
    activities.

Any combination of our competitors or our current broker-dealer
    clients may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide
    services similar to those provided by us. Current and new
    competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost.
    Others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us
    through acquisitions. Significant consolidation has occurred in
    our industry and these firms, as well as others that may
    undertake such consolidation in the future, are potential
    competitors of ours.

Technology

The design and quality of our technology are critical to our
    growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. Our
    electronic trading platform has been designed with secure,
    scalable, client-server architecture that makes broad use of
    distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault
    tolerance. The platform is built on industry-standard
    technologies and has been designed to handle multiples of our
    current trading volume.

All critical server-side components, primarily our networks,
    application servers and databases, have backup equipment running
    in case the main equipment fails. This offers fully redundant
    system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential
    for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal
    failure. We also seek to minimize the impact of external
    failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of
    a communications failure. The majority of our broker-dealer
    clients have dedicated high-speed communication lines to our
    network in order to provide fast data transfer. Our security
    measures include industry-standard communications encryption.

We have designed our application with an

easy-to-use,

Windows-based interface. Through a secure, single sign-on, our
    clients are able to access our electronic trading platform. We
    provide users an automatic software update feature that does not
    require manual intervention.



Intellectual
    Property

We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret
    and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect
    our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual
    property. Our software code, elements of our electronic trading
    platform, Web site and other proprietary materials are protected
    by copyright laws. We currently have six patent applications
    pending, covering certain aspects of our business.

The written agreements upon which we rely to protect our
    proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property
    include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets.
    Examples of these written agreements include third party
    nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions
    assignment agreements, and agreements with customers,
    contractors and strategic partners. Other written agreements
    upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology,
    processes and intellectual property take many forms and contain
    provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark or trade
    secret rights.

We have obtained U.S. federal registration of the
    MarketAxess

®

name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered
    in several foreign jurisdictions. We have pending registrations
    for the
    MarketAxess

®

name and logo in several other foreign jurisdictions. In
    addition, we have obtained U.S. federal registration for
    the marks
    AutoSpotting

®

,
    BondLink

®

,
    FrontPage

®

,
    Actives

®

,
    DealerAxess

®

and associated designs. “Corporate BondTicker” is a
    trademark we use, but it has not been registered.

In addition to our efforts to register our intellectual
    property, we believe that factors such as the technological and
    creative skills of our personnel, new service developments,
    frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our
    services are essential to establishing and maintaining a
    technology and market leadership position.

Government
    Regulation

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.S. and
    elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. As a matter of
    public policy, regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of the
    world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the
    securities and other financial markets and with protecting the
    interests of investors participating in those markets. Our
    active broker-dealer subsidiaries fall within the scope of their
    regulations.

Regulation
    of the U.S. Securities Industry and
    Broker-Dealers

In the U.S., the SEC is the governmental agency responsible for
    the administration of the federal securities laws. Our
    U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation, is registered
    with the SEC as a broker-dealer. It is also a member of the
    NASD, a self-regulatory organization to which most
    broker-dealers belong. In addition, MarketAxess Corporation is a
    member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which
    provides certain protection for clients’ accounts in the
    event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such
    accounts are held by the broker-dealer.

Additionally, MarketAxess Corporation is registered with certain
    states and the District of Columbia as a broker-dealer. The
    states and the District of Columbia are responsible for the
    administration of their respective “blue sky” laws,
    rules and regulations.

Regulation
    of the

Non-U.S. Securities

Industries and Investment Service Providers

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.K., the
    European Union and elsewhere are subject to extensive
    regulation. MarketAxess Europe Limited may fall within the scope
    of those regulations depending upon the extent to which it is
    characterized as providing a regulated investment service.

Our principal regulator in the U.K. is the FSA. Our U.K.
    subsidiary, MarketAxess Europe Limited, is registered as an
    alternative trading system (“ATS”) with the FSA.

The securities industry in the member states of the European
    Union is regulated by agencies in each member state. European
    Union measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory
    agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant
    of a single authorization for providers of investment services
    which, in general, is valid throughout the European Union. As an
    FSA-approved ATS, MarketAxess Europe Limited receives the
    benefit of this authorization.



In May 2003, we incorporated a Canadian subsidiary, MarketAxess
    Canada Limited. It has applied for registration as an ATS under
    the Securities Act of Ontario and is in the process of seeking
    approval for membership with the Investment Dealers Association
    of Canada.

Employees

As of December 31, 2006, we had 176 employees, 143 of whom
    were based in the U.S. and 33 of whom were based in the U.K.
    None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We
    consider our relationships with our employees to be good and
    have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to
    labor disagreements.

Company
    Information

Our Internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. Through our
    Internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the
    following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after
    electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC:
    our annual report on

Form 10-K;

our quarterly reports on

Form 10-Q;

our current reports on

Form 8-K;

and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our
    Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings are also available
    through our Internet website. Our Internet website and the
    information contained therein or connected thereto are not
    intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

You may also obtain copies of our reports without charge by
    writing to:

MarketAxess Holdings Inc.

140 Broadway

New York, NY 10005

Attn: Investor Relations

In addition, our Board of Directors has standing Audit,
    Compensation and Nominating Committees. Each of these committees
    has a written charter approved by our Board of Directors. Our
    Board of Directors has also adopted a set of Corporate
    Governance Guidelines. Copies of each committee charter, along
    with the Corporate Governance Guidelines, are also posted on our
    website.

You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the
    SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE,
    Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at

1-800-SEC-0330

for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains
    an Internet website that contains annual, quarterly and current
    reports, proxy and information statements and other information
    that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with
    the SEC. The SEC’s Internet website is www.sec.gov.

We have obtained federal registration of the
    MarketAxess

®

name and logo, as well as for the marks
    Auto-Spotting

®

,
    BondLink

®

,
    Actives

®

,
    FrontPage

®

and
    DealerAxess

®

.
    Other trademarks and service marks appearing in this Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

are the property of their respective holders.



Item 1A.

Risk
    Factors

Risks
    Related to the Potential Conflicts of Interest With Our
    Broker-Dealer Clients

Who Are Also Our Stockholders

We are
    dependent on our broker-dealer clients, nine of which were also
    our stockholders as of January 1, 2006, who are not
    restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities,
    directly or through their own proprietary or third-party
    platforms, with institutional investors.

We rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and
    liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond
    prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and
    responding to institutional investor client inquiries. Although
    each broker-dealer client is currently a party to an agreement
    with us, the obligations of each broker-dealer under these
    agreements are minimal. None of these agreements is exclusive
    and broker-dealers may terminate such agreements

and/or

enter
    into, and in some cases have entered into, similar agreements
    with our competitors. For example, some of our broker-dealer
    clients are also clients of Thomson TradeWeb, a multi-dealer to
    institutional investor trading platform that operates an online
    corporate bond trading platform.

Our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities
    directly with their clients through traditional bond trading
    methods, including telephone conversations,

e-mail

messaging and other electronic means of communication.
    Currently, the preponderance of trading of U.S. high-grade
    corporate bonds still occurs using traditional bond trading
    methods. Most of our broker-dealer and institutional investor
    clients are involved in other ventures, including other
    electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as
    trading participants

and/or

as
    equity holders, and such ventures or newly created ventures may
    compete with us and our electronic trading platform now and in
    the future.

Some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic
    trading networks or have announced their intention to explore
    the development of electronic trading networks. These competing
    trading platforms may offer some features that we do not
    currently offer. Furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have
    made, and may in the future continue to make, investments in
    businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us,
    including, either individually or collectively, organizing or
    investing in a separate company similar to us for the purpose of
    competing with us or pursuing corporate opportunities that might
    be attractive to us. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that
    such broker-dealers’ primary commitments will not be to one
    of our competitors.

Any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by
    our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different
    bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on
    our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our
    platform by our institutional investor clients. The occurrence
    of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We
    derive a significant percentage of our total revenues, and an
    even greater percentage of our commissions, from broker-dealer
    clients who are also our stockholders.

We have historically earned a substantial portion of our
    commissions from the nine broker-dealer clients that were our
    stockholders as of January 1, 2006. For the year ended
    December 31, 2006, $35.6 million or 49.9% of our
    commissions, for the year ended December 31, 2005,
    $36.6 million or 54.7% of our commissions, and for the year
    ended December 31, 2004, $39.3 million or 57.7% of our
    commissions, were generated by these nine broker-dealer clients.
    None of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or otherwise
    obligated to continue to use our electronic trading platform.
    Reduced involvement of these broker-dealer clients due to their
    lack of a right to designate a member of our Board of Directors
    or the potential reduction in the level of their equity
    ownership if these entities should sell shares of our common
    stock, may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our
    electronic trading platform and other services, which could
    negatively impact the use of our platform by our institutional
    investor clients. The loss of, or a significant reduction of,
    participation on our platform by these broker-dealer clients may
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.



Several
    of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates beneficially
    own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock.
    These broker-dealer clients have strategic interests that differ
    from those of our other stockholders.

As of January 1, 2006, nine of our broker-dealer clients or
    their affiliates owned, in the aggregate, a significant
    percentage of our outstanding common stock. These broker-dealer
    clients have strategic interests that are different from ours
    and those of our other stockholders. For example, in their
    capacity as broker-dealer clients, they would presumably favor
    lower commissions

and/or

commission caps. Furthermore, as stockholders in other consortia
    that have developed competitive electronic trading networks or
    have announced their intention to explore the development of
    competitive electronic trading networks, they may decide to
    direct some or all of their electronic trading business to one
    or more of our competitors. While these actions, if taken, would
    presumably reduce our revenues and our market capitalization
    and, therefore, the value of their ownership position in us,
    there can be no assurance that they will not decide to take such
    actions for their own strategic reasons.

We are not a party to any voting agreement with any of our
    stockholders and are not aware of any voting agreements among
    our broker-dealer clients; however, they may enter into a voting
    agreement in the future or otherwise vote in a similar manner.
    To the extent that all of these broker-dealer clients or their
    affiliates vote similarly, they will be able to determine
    decisions requiring approval by our stockholders. As a result,
    they or their affiliates may be able to:

•

control the composition of our Board of Directors through their
    ability to nominate directors and vote their shares to elect
    them;

•

control our management and policies; and

•

determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions,
    including changes in control that may be beneficial to other
    stockholders.

As a result of these factors, we may be less likely to pursue
    relationships with strategic partners who are not stockholders
    of ours, which could impede our ability to expand our business
    and strengthen our competitive position. Furthermore, these
    factors could also limit stockholder value by preventing a
    change in control or sale of MarketAxess.

We may
    be limited in our use of our U.S. net operating loss
    carryforwards.

As of December 31, 2006, we had U.S. net operating
    loss carryforwards of $91.6 million, which will begin to
    expire in 2019. A net operating loss carryforward enables a
    company to apply net operating losses incurred during a current
    period against future periods’ profits in order to reduce
    tax liability in those future periods.

Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code provides that when
    a company undergoes an “ownership change,” that
    company’s use of its net operating losses is limited
    annually in each subsequent year. An “ownership
    change” occurs when, as of any testing date, the sum of the
    increases in ownership of each shareholder that owns five
    percent or more of the value of a company’s stock compared
    to that shareholder’s lowest percentage ownership during
    the preceding three-year period exceeds 50 percentage
    points. For purposes of this rule, certain shareholders who own
    less than five percent of a company’s stock are aggregated
    and treated as a single five-percent shareholder.

In 2000 and 2001, MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and MarketAxess
    Corporation had an “ownership change.” As a result,
    net operating loss carryforwards of $39.2 million existing
    at the date of the ownership change are subject to significant
    limitations.

The issuance or repurchase of a significant number of shares of
    stock or purchases or sales of stock by significant shareholders
    could result in an additional “ownership change.” We
    may issue a substantial number of shares of our stock in
    connection with offerings, acquisitions and other transactions
    in the future, although no assurance can be given that any such
    offering, acquisition or other transaction will be undertaken,
    and we expect to repurchase a significant number of shares in
    connection with our stock repurchase program. In addition, the
    exercise of outstanding options to purchase shares of our common
    stock may require us to issue additional shares of our common
    stock. The extent of the actual future use of our U.S. net
    operating loss carryforwards is subject to inherent uncertainty
    because it depends on the amount of otherwise taxable income we
    may earn. We cannot give any



assurance that we will have sufficient taxable income in future
    years to use any of our federal net operating loss carryforwards
    before they would otherwise expire.

Risks
    Related to Our Business

We
    face substantial competition that could reduce our market share
    and harm our financial performance.

The fixed-income securities industry generally, and the
    electronic financial services markets in which we operate in
    particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to
    intensify in the future. We will continue to compete with bond
    trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their
    institutional investor clients over the telephone or
    electronically. In addition, our current and prospective
    competitors are numerous and include:

•

other multi-dealer trading companies;

•

market data and information vendors;

•

securities and futures exchanges;

•

inter-dealer brokerage firms;

•

electronic communications networks;

•

technology, software, information and media or other companies
    that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers
    or institutional investors; and

•

other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the
    securities business.

Many of our current and potential competitors are more
    established and substantially larger than we are, and have
    substantially greater market presence, as well as greater
    financial, engineering, technical, marketing and other
    resources. These competitors may aggressively reduce their
    pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a
    leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses
    with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity
    securities. In addition, many of our competitors offer a wider
    range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger
    customer bases than we do. Some of them may be able to respond
    more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and
    customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake
    more extensive promotional activities.

Any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures
    or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by
    us. Current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a
    relatively low cost. Others may acquire the capabilities
    necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. We expect
    that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies
    with respect to each product or service we offer. If we are not
    able to compete successfully in the future, our business,
    financial condition and results of operations would be adversely
    affected.

We
    have experienced losses and may incur losses in the
    future.

Our losses were $16.8 million from the period of inception
    through December 31, 2000, $65.1 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2001 and $36.1 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2002. For the year ended
    December 31, 2003, we reported net income of
    $4.2 million, for the year ended December 31, 2004, we
    reported net income of $57.6 million, which included
    $46.1 million in income which was recognized upon our
    reassessment of the likelihood of realization of a portion of
    our deferred tax assets, for the year ended December 31,
    2005, we reported net income of $8.1 million and for the
    year ended December 31, 2006, we reported net income of
    $5.4 million We cannot predict whether we will be able to
    sustain profitability and we may incur losses in future periods.
    If we are not able to sustain profitability, our stock price may
    decline.

Neither
    the sustainability of our current level of business nor our
    historical growth can be assured. Even if we do experience
    growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow
    profitably.

The use of our electronic trading platform is relatively new.
    The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our
    ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and
    institutional investor clients that use our



electronic trading platform. Our business strategy also depends
    on increasing the use of our platform by these clients.
    Individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may
    have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of
    our platform.

Our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our
    revenue base. We currently derive a majority of our revenues
    from secondary trading in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds.
    The percentage of our commissions from such trading remained
    relatively constant for the years ended December 31, 2006,
    2005 and 2004. Our long-term business strategy is dependent on
    expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from
    other fixed-income products and other sources. We cannot assure
    you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased
    revenues or continued profitability.

Our plans to pursue other opportunities for revenue growth are
    at an early stage, and we cannot assure you that our plans will
    be successful or that we will actually proceed with them as
    described.

Because
    we have a limited operating history, it is difficult to evaluate
    our business and prospects.

MarketAxess was formed in April 2000 and pilot trading on our
    electronic trading platform began in October 2000, with the
    commercial launch of the platform in January 2001. As a result,
    we have only a limited operating history from which you can
    evaluate our business and our prospects. We will encounter risks
    and difficulties frequently experienced by early-stage companies
    in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial
    services industry. These risks and difficulties include, but are
    not limited to, our ability to:

•

attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on
    a cost-effective basis;

•

expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and
    service offerings to our clients;

•

respond effectively to competitive pressures;

•

diversify our sources of revenues;

•

maintain adequate control of our expenses;

•

operate, support, expand and develop our operations, website,
    software, communications and other systems;

•

manage growth in personnel and operations;

•

increase awareness of our brand or market positioning;

•

expand our sales and marketing programs; and

•

respond to regulatory changes or demands.

If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing
    our business strategy, our business, financial condition and
    results of operations may suffer.

Decreases
    in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on
    our platform could harm our business and
    profitability.

We have experienced decreases in overall trading volume in
    certain periods, and may experience decreases in trading volume
    in the future. Declines in the overall volume of fixed-income
    securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as
    declines in interest rate volatility, result in lower revenues
    from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading
    platform and fees generated from related activities.

Likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the
    fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in
    trading volume to segments of clients which we have not
    penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform
    and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. During
    periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of
    electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease
    dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain
    additional information during the trade process through
    conversations with broker-dealers. In addition, during rapidly
    moving markets, broker-dealers may be less likely to post prices
    electronically.



A decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason may
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

We may
    enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult
    to evaluate.

On June 1, 2005, we introduced a new fee plan primarily for
    secondary market transactions in U.S. high-grade corporate
    bonds executed on our electronic trading platform. Most of our
    U.S. high-grade broker-dealer clients signed new two-year
    agreements in 2005. These agreements are scheduled for renewal
    at various times between June 2007 and December 2007. In
    addition, we anticipate that from time to time we will introduce
    new fee plans for the other market segments in which we operate.
    Any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide
    volume incentives.

We cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an
    increase in the volume of transactions effected on our platform
    or that our revenues will increase as a result of the
    implementation of any such plans. Furthermore, resistance to new
    fee plans by our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

We are
    exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by
    counterparties to transactions executed between our
    broker-dealer clients in which we act as an intermediary in
    matching back-to back trades.

In June 2006, we began executing riskless principal transactions
    between our broker-dealer clients through our subsidiary,
    MarketAxess Corporation. We act as an intermediary in these
    transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and
    the seller in matching

back-to-back

trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing
    organization. Settlement typically occurs within one to three
    trading days after the trade date. Cash settlement of the
    transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying
    instrument that was traded.

We are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading
    counterparty to our broker-dealer clients executing trades on
    the
    DealerAxess

®

platform. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe
    us money, securities or other assets will not perform their
    obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to
    us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or
    other reasons. Adverse movements in the prices of securities
    that are the subject of these transactions can increase our
    risk. Where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is
    prolonged there may also be regulatory capital charges required
    to be taken by us. The policies and procedures we use to manage
    this credit risk are new and untested. There can be no assurance
    that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our
    exposure to credit risk.

If we
    experience significant fluctuations in our operating results or
    fail to meet revenues and earnings expectations, our stock price
    may fall rapidly and without advance notice.

Due to our limited operating history, our evolving business
    model and the unpredictability of our industry, we may
    experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. We
    base our current and future expense levels and our investment
    plans on estimates of future revenues and future rate of growth.
    Our expenses and investments are, to a large extent, fixed and
    we expect that these expenses will increase in the future. We
    may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our
    revenues fall short of our expectations.

Our revenues and operating results may also fluctuate due to
    other factors, including:

•

our ability to retain existing broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients and attract new broker-dealers and
    institutional investor clients;

•

our ability to drive an increase in use of our electronic
    trading platform by new and existing broker-dealer and
    institutional investor clients;

•

changes in our pricing policies;

•

the introduction of new features on our electronic trading
    platform;

•

the effectiveness of our sales force;

•

new product and service introductions by our competitors;



•

fluctuations in overall market trading volume;

•

technical difficulties or interruptions in our service;

•

general economic conditions in our geographic markets;

•

additional investment in our services or operations; and

•

regulatory compliance costs.

As a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly
    on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our
    stock price.

We may
    not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our electronic
    trading platform, new services

and/or

service enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which
    could harm our competitive position.

Our business environment is characterized by rapid technological
    change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands
    and evolving industry standards. Our future will depend on our
    ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new
    versions of, our electronic trading platform. The success of new
    features and versions depends on several factors, including the
    timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the
    feature or version. In addition, the market for our electronic
    trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require
    customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling
    to provide. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the
    demand for new services, products and technologies and develop
    new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading
    platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on
    a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

As we
    enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract
    clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use
    in those markets.

Our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform
    to enter new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able
    to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology
    for use in other markets. Even if we do adapt our software and
    technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract
    clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. We
    cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of
    any of these opportunities will be successful. If these efforts
    are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings,
    which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of
    our common stock. Furthermore, these efforts may divert
    management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources.

Rapid
    technological changes may render our technology obsolete or
    decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients.

We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading
    platform. The electronic financial services industry is
    characterized by increasingly complex systems and
    infrastructures and new business models. If new industry
    standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems
    and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our
    existing business may be harmed. Our future success will depend
    on our ability to:

•

enhance our existing products and services;

•

develop

and/or

license new products and technologies that address the
    increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer
    and institutional investor clients and prospective
    clients; and

•

respond to technological advances and emerging industry
    standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.

Developing our electronic trading platform and other technology
    entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new
    technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our
    electronic trading platform, information databases and network
    infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client
    requirements or emerging industry standards. For example, our
    electronic trading platform functionality that allows searches
    and inquiries on bond pricing and availability is a critical
    part of our service, and it may become

out-of-date

or



insufficient from our broker-dealer clients’ or
    institutional investor clients’ perspective and in relation
    to the inquiry functionality of our competitors’ systems.
    If we face material delays in introducing new services, products
    and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor
    clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our
    competitors.

Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking or
    telecommunications technologies may require us to devote
    substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement
    new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and
    transaction-processing systems to client requirements or
    emerging industry standards. We cannot assure you that we will
    be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market
    conditions or client requirements.

We
    depend on third-party suppliers for key products and
    services.

We rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our
    trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and
    other equipment, and related support and maintenance. We cannot
    assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue
    to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective
    manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately
    expand their services to meet our needs. If we are unable to
    make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical
    products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product
    or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing
    service provider, our business, financial condition and results
    of operations could be materially adversely affected.

In particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our
    corporate bond reference database. Disruptions in the services
    provided by that third party to us, including as a result of
    their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products
    that are critical to the success of our business, could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.

We also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on
    third parties for various computer and communications systems,
    such as telephone companies, online service providers, data
    processors, and software and hardware vendors. Other third
    parties provide, for instance, our data center,
    telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems
    and software licensing, support and maintenance services. Any
    interruption in these or other third-party services or
    deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of
    our service. We cannot be certain of the financial viability of
    all of the third parties on which we rely.

We license software from third parties, much of which is
    integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. We
    also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality
    assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading
    platform and other systems. Continued access to these licensors
    and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to
    alternative software and information technology contractors is
    important to our operations. Adverse changes in any of these
    relationships could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

We attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service,
    confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing
    and other terms in our contracts with our service providers.
    These contracts usually have multi-year terms. However, there is
    no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we
    will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements
    with alternate service providers on competitive terms. Further,
    the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to
    terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and
    our competitors advance their own operations and contracts.

Our
    success depends on maintaining the integrity of our electronic
    trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our computer
    systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and business
    interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause
    us to lose clients.

In order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time
    access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer
    and institutional investor clients. If our electronic trading
    platform is hampered by slow delivery times, unreliable service
    or insufficient capacity, our broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients may decide to stop using our platform, which
    would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.



As our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to
    improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and
    infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order
    message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new
    and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of
    new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and
    ancillary products and services. The expansion of our electronic
    trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will
    continue to require, substantial financial, operational and
    technical resources. These resources will typically need to be
    committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading
    volumes and order messages. We cannot assure you that our
    estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be
    accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate
    actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or
    degradation of performance. Furthermore, we use new technologies
    to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these
    new technologies also entails technical, financial and business
    risks. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement
    new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading
    platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging
    industry standards. The inability of our electronic trading
    platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order
    messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business.

We cannot assure you that we will not experience systems
    failures. Our electronic trading platform, computer and
    communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to
    damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other
    things:

•

irregular or heavy use of our electronic trading platform during
    peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility;

•

power or telecommunications failures, hardware failures or
    software errors;

•

human error;

•

computer viruses, acts of vandalism or sabotage (and resulting
    potential lapses in security), both internal and external;

•

natural disasters, fires, floods or other acts of God;

•

acts of war or terrorism or other armed hostility; and

•

loss of support services from third parties, including those to
    whom we outsource aspects of our computer infrastructure
    critical to our business.

In the event that any of our systems, or those of our
    third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any
    one or more of the following to occur:

•

unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients;

•

slower response times or delays in our clients’ trade
    execution;

•

incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of
    trades;

•

financial losses and liabilities to clients;

•

litigation or other claims against us, including formal
    complaints to industry regulatory organizations; and

•

regulatory inquiries, proceedings or sanctions.

Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or
    decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures
    caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage
    our reputation, business and brand name and lead our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or
    cease their use of our electronic trading platform.

In these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster
    recovery plans may not be adequate. Similarly, although many of
    our contracts with our service providers require them to have
    disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be
    adequate or implemented properly. In addition, our business
    interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for
    losses that may occur.



We also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to
    properly respond to system problems. We internally support and
    maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including
    those underlying our electronic trading platform. Our failure to
    monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary,
    to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and
    cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.

If our
    security measures are breached and unauthorized access is
    obtained to our electronic trading platform, broker-dealers and
    institutional investors may become hesitant to use, or reduce or
    stop their use of, our trading platform.

Our electronic trading platform involves the storage and
    transmission of our clients’ proprietary information. The
    secure transmission of confidential information over public
    networks is a critical element of our operations. Security
    breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information,
    litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are
    breached as a result of third-party action, employee error,
    malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains
    unauthorized access to trading or other confidential
    information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may
    suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because
    techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage
    computer systems change frequently and generally are not
    recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to
    anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive
    measures. If an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our
    security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of
    our security measures could be harmed and could cause
    broker-dealers and clients to reduce or stop their use of our
    electronic trading platform. We may be required to expend
    significant resources to protect against the threat of security
    breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm
    and litigation, caused by any breaches. Although we intend to
    continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we
    cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient.

We may
    not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or
    technology effectively, which would allow competitors to
    duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. This
    could adversely affect our ability to compete.

Intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to
    compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property
    rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our
    technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent,
    copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States
    and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements,
    third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other
    contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our
    intellectual property rights. We attempt to negotiate beneficial
    intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and
    also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators
    to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the
    confidentiality of our proprietary information. We have filed
    six patent applications covering aspects of our technology

and/or

business, but can make no assurances that any such patents will
    be issued or, if issued, will protect our business and processes
    from competition. Additionally, laws and our contractual terms
    may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or
    theft by third parties. For instance, a third party might
    reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology
    without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby
    infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or
    replicate our products. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that
    these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors
    from independently developing technologies that are
    substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.

We may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert
    against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but
    lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex
    and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. In
    addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the
    future provide our services may not protect software and
    intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of
    the United States.



Defending
    against intellectual property infringement or other claims could
    be expensive and disruptive to our business. If we are found to
    infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required
    to redesign our products, pay royalties or enter into license
    agreements with third parties.

In the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based
    on allegations of infringement or other violations of
    intellectual property rights. As the number of participants in
    our market increases and the number of patents and other
    intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility
    of an intellectual property claim against us grows. Although we
    have never been the subject of a material intellectual property
    dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert
    in the future that our technology or the manner in which we
    operate our business violates its intellectual property rights.
    From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we
    may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to
    the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that
    third parties may assert intellectual property claims against
    us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our
    business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases
    and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. Any
    claims, whether with or without merit, could:

•

be expensive and time-consuming to defend;

•

prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our
    business;

•

cause us to cease developing, licensing or using all or any part
    of our electronic trading platform that incorporates the
    challenged intellectual property;

•

require us to redesign our products or services, which may not
    be feasible;

•

result in significant monetary liability;

•

divert management’s attention and resources; and

•

require us to pay royalties or enter into licensing agreements
    in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies,
    which may not be possible on commercially reasonable terms.

We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert
    infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our
    electronic trading platform or any of our other current or
    future products or services or that any such assertion will not
    require us to cease providing such services or products, try to
    redesign our products or services, enter into royalty
    arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could
    be costly to us. Any of these events could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

If we
    are unable to enter into additional marketing and strategic
    alliances or if our current strategic alliances are not
    successful, we may not maintain the current level of trading or
    generate increased trading on our trading
    platform.

From time to time, we may enter into strategic alliances that
    will enable us to enter new markets, provide products or
    services that we do not currently offer or otherwise enhance the
    value of our platform to our clients.

Entering into joint ventures and alliances entails risks,
    including:

•

difficulties in developing and expanding the business of
    newly-formed joint ventures;

•

exercising influence over the activities of joint ventures in
    which we do not have a controlling interest; and

•

potential conflicts with or among our joint venture or alliance
    partners.

We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into new
    strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us, or at
    all. These arrangements, if entered into, may not generate the
    expected number of new clients or increased trading volume we
    are seeking. Unsuccessful joint ventures or alliances could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
    and results of operations.



If we
    acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies,
    we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our
    financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the
    anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such
    transactions.

If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire
    or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that
    we believe are strategic. We may not be able to identify,
    negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment
    successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in
    a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and
    investments involve a number of risks, including:

•

we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further
    our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or
    assets, or the economic conditions underlying our acquisition
    decision may change;

•

we may have difficulty integrating the acquired technologies or
    products with our existing electronic trading platform, products
    and services;

•

we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel
    of the acquired business, or retaining the key personnel of the
    acquired business;

•

there may be client confusion if our services overlap with those
    of the acquired company;

•

our ongoing business and management’s attention may be
    disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and
    the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse
    enterprises;

•

we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls,
    procedures and policies across locations;

•

an acquisition may result in litigation from terminated
    employees or third parties; and

•

we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated
    with product quality, technology and legal contingencies.

These factors could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or
    multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to
    time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or
    investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such
    negotiations could result in significant diversion of management
    time, as well as

out-of-pocket

costs.

The consideration paid in connection with an investment or
    acquisition also affects our financial results. If we were to
    proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the
    consideration included cash, we could be required to use a
    substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any
    acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or
    other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or
    other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings
    per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in
    the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of
    acquired in-process research and development costs, and
    restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and
    other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests,
    which could result in future impairment charges.

We are
    dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member
    of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan
    in a timely manner.

Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our
    executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Richard
    M. McVey, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of
    Directors. The terms of Mr. McVey’s employment
    agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us
    and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject
    to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested
    equity options and restricted stock. Any loss or interruption of
    Mr. McVey’s services or that of one or more of our
    other executive officers or key personnel could result in our
    inability to manage our operations effectively

and/or

pursue our business strategy.



Because
    competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to
    attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to
    support our business.

We strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to
    establish and maintain long-term relationships with our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. Our ability to
    provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well
    as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends
    in large part upon our employees. We must attract and retain
    highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is
    intense, especially for software engineers with extensive
    experience in designing and developing software and
    Internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians,
    product managers and senior sales executives.

The market for qualified personnel has grown more competitive in
    recent periods as electronic commerce has experienced growth.
    Domestic and international labor markets have tightened in
    concert with the continuing recovery in general economic
    conditions. Many of the companies with which we compete for
    experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and
    are longer established in the marketplace. In addition, in
    making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet,
    high-technology and financial services industries, job
    candidates often consider the total compensation package
    offered, including the value of the stock- based compensation
    they are to receive in connection with their employment.
    Significant volatility in the price of our common stock may
    adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees.
    The implementation of SFAS 123R relating to the expensing
    of stock-based compensation may discourage us from granting the
    size or type of stock-based compensation that job candidates may
    require to join our company.

We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts
    to recruit and retain the required personnel. The failure to
    attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current
    personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.

Termination
    of employees may result in additional costs.

We are currently involved in arbitration claims filed against us
    by two former employees. We believe that both cases are without
    merit and we intend to vigorously defend them. However, an
    adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types
    of claims may have an adverse effect on our financial condition
    or results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of these
    claims, we may incur significant expense and management time
    dealing with such claims.

Our
    business is subject to increasingly extensive government and
    other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer
    clients may subject us to increasing regulatory
    scrutiny.

The financial industry is extensively regulated by many
    governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations,
    including the SEC and the NASD. As a matter of public policy,
    these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the
    integrity of the securities and other financial markets and
    protecting the interests of investors in those markets. These
    regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret,
    investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules
    and regulations.

Most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly
    regulated, including:

•

the way we deal with our clients;

•

our capital requirements;

•

our financial and regulatory reporting practices;

•

required record-keeping and record retention procedures;

•

the licensing of our employees; and

•

the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates.



We cannot assure you that we

and/or

our
    directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply
    with these laws, rules and regulations. If we fail to comply
    with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject
    to censure, fines,

cease-and-desist

orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or
    other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in the
    NASD and registration as a broker-dealer.

We have two major operating subsidiaries, MarketAxess
    Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited. MarketAxess
    Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited are subject to U.S.
    and U.K. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as an
    alternative trading system, respectively, which prohibit
    repayment of borrowings from the Company or affiliates, paying
    cash dividends, making loans to the Company or affiliates or
    otherwise entering into transactions that result in a
    significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial
    resources, without prior notification to or approval from such
    subsidiary’s principal regulator.

Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies,
    including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific
    levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer
    subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. Our
    industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory
    changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in
    the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which
    could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause
    the development of affected markets to become impractical. In
    addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is
    likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and
    regulations. We cannot predict the extent to which any future
    regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and
    operations.

Our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to
    regulation as an alternative trading system under
    Regulation ATS. A determination by the SEC to treat our
    trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to
    Regulation ATS would subject us to additional reporting
    obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our
    business, many of which could be material. Our anonymous

dealer-to-dealer

trading service,
    DealerAxess

®

,
    is regulated as an alternative trading system subject to
    Regulation ATS.

As an enterprise founded and historically controlled by
    broker-dealer competitors, we may be subject to ongoing
    regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not
    likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. In November
    2000, we received a Civil Investigative Demand from the
    U.S. Department of Justice in connection with the Antitrust
    Division’s investigation of electronic bond and other
    consortia trading systems. After compliance with all information
    requests, we received notice from the U.S. Department of
    Justice in 2004 that the investigation was officially closed. As
    the use of our electronic trading platform grows and represents
    a greater share of the trading volume of fixed-income
    securities, the risk that other regulatory investigations could
    commence in the future increases. Additionally, the involvement
    of individuals affiliated with certain of our broker-dealer
    clients on our Board of Directors and as stockholders may
    subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. At
    any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory
    scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model,
    conduct or practices, or our relationships with our
    broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or
    private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm
    our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the
    broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability
    to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement
    new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position.

The activities and consequences described above may result in
    significant distractions to our management and could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.

We
    expect to continue to expand our operations outside of the
    United States; however, we may face special economic and
    regulatory challenges that we may not be able to
    meet.

We operate an electronic trading platform in Europe and we plan
    to further expand our operations throughout Europe and other
    regions. There are certain risks inherent in doing business in
    international markets, particularly in the financial services
    industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions
    outside the United States. These risks include:

•

less developed technological infrastructures and generally
    higher costs, which could result in lower client acceptance of
    our services or clients having difficulty accessing our trading
    platform;



•

difficulty in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for
    planned expansion, if at all, and the possibility that any
    approvals that are obtained may impose restrictions on the
    operation of our business;

•

the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory
    requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly
    evolving and subject to unexpected change;

•

difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;

•

fluctuations in exchange rates;

•

reduced or no protection for intellectual property rights;

•

seasonal reductions in business activity; and

•

potentially adverse tax consequences.

Our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely
    affect our business and limit our ability to expand our
    international operations, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.

We
    cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain
    additional financing if we need it.

Our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate
    funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory
    requirements. Historically, we have satisfied these needs
    primarily through equity financing from certain of our
    broker-dealer clients, our acquisition of Trading Edge, Inc.,
    internally generated funds and, most recently, our initial
    public offering. Although we believe that our available cash
    resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated
    liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at
    least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to
    raise additional funds to, among other things:

•

support more rapid growth of our business;

•

develop new or enhanced services and products;

•

respond to competitive pressures;

•

acquire complementary companies or technologies;

•

enter into strategic alliances;

•

increase the regulatory net capital necessary to support our
    operations; or

•

respond to unanticipated capital requirements.

We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in
    amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our existing
    investors, including our broker-dealer clients and their
    affiliates, have no obligation to make further investments in
    us, and we do not anticipate that they will do so. If sufficient
    funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable
    to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of
    acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or
    products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be
    significantly limited. These limitations could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

The
    requirements of being a public company may strain our resources,
    divert management’s attention and affect our ability to
    attract and retain qualified board members.

As a public company, we are subject to the reporting
    requirements of the Securities Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002 and NASDAQ rules promulgated in response to the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirements of these rules and
    regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance
    costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or
    costly and may place undue strain on our systems and resources.
    The Securities Exchange Act requires, among other things, that
    we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to
    our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    requires, among other things, that we maintain effective
    disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for
    financial reporting. In order to maintain and



improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
    procedures and internal control over financial reporting,
    significant resources and management oversight are required. As
    a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other
    business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.

These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult
    for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of
    our Board of Directors. Additionally, we expect these rules and
    regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us
    to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be
    required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially
    higher costs to obtain coverage. NASDAQ rules also require that
    a majority of our Board of Directors and all of certain

sub-committees

of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors. We
    cannot assure you that our Board of Directors will continue to
    include a majority of independent directors to comply with the
    requirements of these rules.

Compliance
    with changing laws and regulations relating to corporate
    governance and public disclosure has resulted, and will continue
    to result, in the incurrence of additional expenses associated
    with being a public company.

New and changing laws and regulations, including the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, impose stricter corporate governance
    requirements and greater disclosure obligations. They have had
    the effect of increasing the complexity and cost of our
    corporate governance compliance, diverting the time and
    attention of our management from revenue-generating activities
    to compliance activities and increasing the risk of personal
    liability for our board members and executive officers involved
    in our corporate governance process. Our efforts to comply with
    evolving laws and regulations has resulted in increased general
    and administrative expenses and increased professional fees. In
    addition, it may become more difficult and expensive for us to
    obtain director and officer liability insurance. These laws and
    regulations may impose obligations that will increase the legal
    and financial costs required to consummate a business
    combination and increase the time required to complete a
    transaction. Furthermore, in order to meet the new corporate
    governance and disclosure obligations, we have been taking, and
    will continue to take, steps to improve our controls and
    procedures and related corporate governance policies and
    procedures to address compliance issues and correct any
    deficiencies that we may discover.

While we believe that the procedures and policies that we have
    in place are effective to address the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
    and other regulatory requirements, the expansion of our
    operations and the growth of our business may require us to
    modify and expand our disclosure controls and procedures and
    related corporate governance policies. Any unanticipated
    difficulties in preparing for and implementing these and other
    corporate governance and reporting reforms could result in
    material delays in compliance or significantly increase our
    costs. Also, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
    fully comply with these new laws and regulations. If we fail to
    prepare for and implement the reforms required by these new laws
    and regulations on a timely basis, our business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be negatively
    impacted, our reputation may be harmed and our stock price may
    be adversely affected.

We are
    subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws
    liability.

Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients,
    involve substantial risks of liability. Dissatisfied clients may
    make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly
    settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their
    service providers. We and our clients may become subject to
    these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our
    electronic trading platform and services provided by us. We
    could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even
    those without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuits or
    claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.



Risks
    Related to Our Industry

If the
    use of electronic trading platforms does not continue to
    increase, we will not be able to achieve our business
    objectives.

The success of our business plan depends on our ability to
    create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of
    fixed-income products. Historically, fixed-income securities
    markets operated through telephone communications between
    institutional investors and broker-dealers. The utilization of
    our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption
    and growth of electronic means of trading securities. We cannot
    assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of
    trading securities will continue.

Economic,
    political and market factors beyond our control could reduce
    demand for our services and harm our business, and our
    profitability could suffer.

The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky
    and volatile and is directly affected by many national and
    international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of
    these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and
    global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading
    volume. These events could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. These
    factors include:

•

economic and political conditions in the United States and
    elsewhere;

•

adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures
    or other disruptions in trading;

•

actual or threatened acts of war or terrorism or other armed
    hostilities;

•

concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels;

•

the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and
    other wholesale and retail investors;

•

the level and volatility of interest and foreign currency
    exchange rates; and

•

legislative and regulatory changes.

Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced
    activity and prices in the securities markets generally. Our
    revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly
    during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading
    volume in the U.S. and global financial markets.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.

Properties

Our corporate headquarters and principal U.S. offices are
    located at 140 Broadway, New York, New York, where we lease the
    entire 42nd floor, which is 24,000 square feet, and a
    portion of the 24th floor, which is 5,300 square feet.
    This lease expires in February 2010. In addition, we lease
    another 17,000 square feet at 350 Madison Avenue, New York,
    New York, which we currently sublet. The lease and sublease
    expire in April 2011. MarketAxess Europe Limited’s
    headquarters and principal offices are located at 71 Fenchurch
    Street, London, England, where we lease the entire 9th and
    10th floors, which are 4,700 square feet per floor.
    This lease expires in November 2015.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings

In January 2007, two former employees commenced arbitration
    proceedings  against us before the National Association of
    Securities Dealers (“NASD”) arising out of the
    expiration of certain vested and unvested stock options and
    unvested restricted shares issued to them. The claims made by
    these two former employees total $4.5 million plus interest.

One former employee has alleged that we wrongfully prevented him
    from exercising his vested options when he sought to do so and
    that we wrongfully claimed that such options had expired on the
    previous day.



The other former employee has alleged that we wrongfully failed
    to accelerate the vesting of his then unvested options and
    restricted shares upon his termination and to waive the

90-day

time
    period within which he was required to exercise his vested
    options. This former employee also alleges that he is entitled
    to a declaration that certain provisions in our 2004 Stock
    Incentive Plan are invalid and unenforceable under applicable
    law. He further alleges that he is entitled to a bonus for the
    approximately five months that he worked for us during 2006.

We believe that both cases are without merit and we intend to
    vigorously defend them. We are required to answer, move or
    otherwise respond to both arbitration claims during
    March 2007. Based on currently available information, we
    believe that the likelihood of a material loss is not probable.
    Accordingly, no amounts have been provided in the accompanying
    financial statements. However, arbitration is subject to
    inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur.

Item 4.

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to security holders for a vote during
    the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended December 31,
    2006.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Price
    Range

Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under
    the symbol “MKTX”. The range of closing price
    information for our common stock, as reported by NASDAQ, was as
    follows:

2006:

High

Low

January 1, 2006 to
    March 31, 2006

$

13.68

$

11.07

April 1, 2006 to
    June 30, 2006

$

12.47

$

9.96

July 1, 2006 to
    September 30, 2006

$

11.25

$

8.90

October 1, 2006 to
    December 31, 2006

$

14.95

$

10.10

2005:

High

Low

January 1, 2005 to
    March 31, 2005

$

15.95

$

9.64

April 1, 2005 to
    June 30, 2005

$

13.87

$

9.83

July 1, 2005 to
    September 30, 2005

$

14.09

$

9.99

October 1, 2005 to
    December 31, 2005

$

13.14

$

10.64

On March 8, 2007, the last reported closing price of our common
    stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $14.34.

Holders

There were 90 holders of record of our common stock as of March
    8, 2007.

Dividend
    Policy

We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital
    stock since our inception. We intend to retain future earnings
    to finance the operation and expansion of our business and do
    not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable
    future.

In the event we decide to declare dividends on our common stock
    in the future, such declaration will be subject to the
    discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board may take into
    account such matters as general business conditions, our
    financial results, capital requirements, contractual, legal, and
    regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by us to our
    stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us and any such other
    factors as our Board may deem relevant.

Use of
    Proceeds

On November 4, 2004, the registration statement relating to
    our initial public offering

(No. 333-112718)

was declared effective. We received net proceeds from the sale
    of the shares of our common stock in the offering of
    $53.9 million, at an initial public offering price of
    $11.00 per share, after deducting underwriting discounts
    and commissions and estimated offering expenses.

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities

None

Securities
    Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
    Plans

Please see the section entitled “Equity Compensation Plan
    Information” in Item 12.



Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities

On October 26, 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a
    stock repurchase program for up to $40 million of our
    common stock. We intend to repurchase the shares in the open
    market or privately negotiated transactions, at times and prices
    considered appropriate by us depending upon prevailing market
    conditions. As of December 31, 2006, we had repurchased the
    following:

Total Number of

Dollar Value of

Shares Purchased

Shares That May

Total Number of

Average Price Paid

as Part of Publicly

Yet Be Purchased

Period

Shares Purchased

per Share

Announced Plans

Under the Plans

(In thousands)

October 26, 2006 —
    October 31, 2006

—

—

—

—

November 1, 2006 —
    November 30, 2006

—

—

—

—

December 1, 2006 —
    December 31, 2006

190,500

$

13.90

190,500

$

37,347

190,500

$

13.90

190,500

$

37,347

Shares repurchased under the program will be held in treasury
    for future use. Through March 9, 2007,
    1,475,756 shares had been repurchased at a cost of
    $19.4 million.



STOCK
    PERFORMANCE GRAPH

The following graph shows a comparison from November 5,
    2004 (the date our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ
    Global Select Market) through December 31, 2006 of
    (i) the cumulative total return for our common stock,
    (ii) the NASDAQ Composite Index, (iii) the NASDAQ
    Global Select Market Composite Index, (iv) a peer group
    that we previously used and (v) a new peer group.

We have included a new peer group that we believe provides a
    more meaningful basis for comparison of our stock performance.

The previous peer group consists of:

Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc.

eSpeed, Inc.

GFI Group Inc.

International Securities Exchange Inc.

Investment Technology Group, Inc.

Knight Trading Group, Inc.

LaBranche & Co Inc.

The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc.

NYSE Group

The new peer group consists of:

eSpeed, Inc.

GFI Group Inc.

International Securities Exchange Inc.

Investment Technology Group, Inc.

The figures in this graph assume an initial investment of $100
    in our common stock at the closing price of $17.49 on
    November 5, 2004, the date our common stock commenced
    trading on the NASDAQ National Market (now the NASDAQ Global
    Select Market), an initial investment of $100 in each of the
    companies in the peer groups at their respective closing price
    on November 5, 2004 and an initial investment of $100 on
    October 31, 2004 in each of the two indexes.

The NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite Index, introduced in
    July 2006, is a market capitalization weighted index that
    measures all NASDAQ domestic and international based common type
    stocks listed on the Global Select tier of the NASDAQ Stock
    Market. The index carries the index history of the NASDAQ
    National Market Composite Index.

The returns illustrated below are based on historical results
    during the period indicated and should not be considered
    indicative of future stockholder returns. Data for the NASDAQ
    Composite Index, the NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite Index
    and for the peer groups assume reinvestment of dividends. We
    have never paid dividends on our common stock and have no
    present plans to do so. All performance data have been provided
    by Research Data Group, Inc.



COMPARISON
    OF 26 MONTH CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*

Among MarketAxess Holdings Inc., The NASDAQ Composite Index,

The Nasdaq Global Select Market Composite Index And Peer Groups

*

This graph assumes an initial investment of $100 at the closing
    price on November 5, 2004 in our common stock and the
    companies in our peer groups and an initial investment of $100
    on October 31, 2004 in each of the two indexes.

*

On November 4, 2004, the registration statement relating to
    our initial public offering at a price of $11.00 per share was
    declared effective. Our stock began trading on the NASDAQ
    National Market (now the NASDAQ Global Select Market) on
    November 5, 2004 and as required by applicable SEC
    regulations, the above graph begins with our closing price on
    that date of $17.49.



Item 6.

Selected
    Financial Data

The selected statement of operations data for each of the years
    ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 and the selected
    balance sheet data as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 have
    been derived from our audited financial statements included
    elsewhere in this

Form 10-K.

The selected statement of operations data for the years ended
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the balance sheet data as
    of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, have been derived from
    our audited financial statements not included in this

Form 10-K.

Year Ended December 31,






(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Statement of Operations
    Data:

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade(1)

$

47,752

$

45,615

$

45,465

$

40,310

$

13,391

European high-grade

15,368

14,078

15,142

7,126


Other(2)

8,310

7,225

7,565

5,364

1,190

Total commissions

71,430

66,918

68,172

52,800

15,555

Information and user access fees

5,477

4,435

2,713

1,144


License fees


2,988

3,143

4,145


Interest income

4,595

3,160




Other(3)


1,059


—

1,193

Total revenues

83,316

78,560

75,797

58,460

18,701

Expenses

Employee compensation and
    benefits(4)

42,078

35,445

33,146

26,860

24,290

Depreciation and amortization

6,728

5,649

3,468

4,688

6,658

Technology and communications

7,704

7,401

6,402

4,755

3,943

Professional and consulting fees

8,072

9,355

4,908

4,180

4,699

Warrant-related expense(5)

—

—

2,524

5,400

8,624

Marketing and advertising

1,769

2,581

2,530

2,292

2,588

Moneyline revenue share

—

(50

)

1,240

1,806


Restructuring charges

—

—

—

—

(674

)

General and administrative

8,361

6,618

4,263

4,077

3,941

Total expenses

74,712

66,999

58,481

54,058

54,777

Income (loss) before taxes

8,604

11,561

17,316

4,402

(36,076

)

Provision (benefit) for income
    taxes(6)

3,183

3,419

(40,271

)


—

Net income (loss)

$

5,421

$

8,142

$

57,587

$

4,212

$

(36,076

)

Net income (loss) per common
    share(7):

Basic

$

0.18

$

0.29

$

6.76

$

(2.20

)

$

(14.39

)

Diluted

$

0.15

$

0.23

$

1.88

$

(2.20

)

$

(14.39

)

Weighted average number of shares
    of common stock outstanding:

Basic

30,563,437

28,156,505

7,097,682

3,288,464

3,290,326

Diluted

35,077,348

35,512,346

30,638,644

3,288,464

3,290,326



As of December 31,






(In thousands)

Balance Sheet Data:

Cash and cash equivalents,
    Short-term investments and Securities-available-for-sale

$

131,015

$

118,145

$

103,449

$

36,182

$

23,806

Working capital(8)

135,470

120,218

103,996

31,884

20,140

Total assets

204,278

190,462

175,646

57,183

39,437

Total redeemable convertible
    preferred stock

—

—

—

159,664

148,209



Item 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations

You should read the following discussion and analysis of our
    financial condition and results of operations in conjunction
    with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated
    financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in
    this

Form 10-K.

In addition to historical information, this discussion and
    analysis contains forward-looking statements relating to future
    events and the future performance of MarketAxess which are based
    on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and
    projections about us and our industry. These forward-looking
    statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results
    and timing of various events could differ materially from those
    anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of a
    variety of factors, as more fully described in this section, in
    “Item 1A. — Risk Factors That May Affect
    Future Results” and elsewhere in this

Form 10-K.

We undertake no obligation to update publicly any
    forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new
    information becomes available or other events occur in the
    future.

Executive
    Summary

MarketAxess operates one of the leading platforms for the
    electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of
    fixed-income securities. Through our platform, 689 active
    institutional investor client firms (firms that executed at
    least one trade through our electronic trading platform between
    January 2006 and December 2006) can access the aggregate
    liquidity provided by the collective interest of our 25
    broker-dealer clients in buying or selling bonds through our
    platform. Our active institutional investor clients include
    investment advisers, mutual funds, insurance companies, public
    and private pension funds, bank portfolios and hedge funds. We
    also provide data and analytical tools that help our clients
    make trading decisions and we facilitate the trading process by
    electronically communicating order information between trading
    counterparties. Our revenues are primarily generated from the
    trading of U.S. and European high-grade corporate bonds.

Our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional
    investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable
    bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades
    with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that
    choose to respond. We offer our broker-dealer clients a solution
    that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional
    investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. In
    addition to U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European
    high-grade corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, including
    both investment-grade and non-investment grade debt, we also
    offer our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield
    bonds, agency bonds and credit default swap indices. Our
    DealerAxess

®

trading service allows dealers to trade fixed-income securities
    with each other on our platform.

The majority of our revenues are derived from commissions for
    trades executed on our platform that are billed to our
    broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. We also derive
    revenues from information and user access fees, license fees,
    investment income and other income. Our expenses consist of
    employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and
    amortization, technology and communication expenses,
    professional and consulting fees, marketing and advertising and
    other general and administrative expenses.

We seek to grow and diversify our revenues by capitalizing on
    our status as the operator of a leading platform for the
    electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of
    fixed-income securities. The key elements of our strategy are:

•

to innovate and efficiently add new functionality and product
    offerings to the MarketAxess platform that we believe will help
    to increase our market share with existing clients, as well as
    expand our client base;

•

to leverage our technology, as well as our strong broker-dealer
    and institutional investor relationships, to deploy our
    electronic trading platform into additional product segments
    within the fixed-income securities markets;

•

to leverage our technology and client relationships to deploy
    our electronic trading platform into new client segments;

•

to continue building our existing service offerings so that our
    electronic trading platform is fully integrated into the
    workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients
    and to continue to add functionality



to allow our clients to achieve a fully automated

end-to-end

straight-through processing solution (automation from trade
    initiation to settlement);

•

to add new content and analytical capabilities to Corporate
    BondTicker

tm

in order to improve the value of the information we provide to
    our clients; and

•

to continue to supplement our internal growth by entering into
    strategic alliances, or acquiring businesses or technologies
    that will enable us to enter new markets, provide new products
    or services, or otherwise enhance the value of our platform to
    our clients.

History

MarketAxess was formed in April 2000, and pilot trading on our
    fully disclosed multi-dealer platform began in October 2000. We
    launched trading on our electronic platform in January 2001 with
    eight broker- dealer clients. Since that time, our broker-dealer
    clients have grown to include 25 leading securities firms. Our
    broker-dealer clients currently are: ABN AMRO, Banc of America
    Securities, Barclays PLC, Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas, Citigroup
    Global Markets, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank Securities,
    Dresdner Bank AG, DZ Bank AG, FTN Financial, Goldman Sachs,
    HSBC, ING Financial Markets, JPMorgan, Jefferies and Company,
    Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, RBC Capital
    Markets, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander Investment
    Securities, SG Corporate & Investment Banking, UBS and
    Wachovia Securities.

In March 2001, we acquired Trading Edge, Inc. (“Trading
    Edge”), the operator of an anonymous trading platform for
    U.S. corporate bonds, convertible bonds, municipal bonds
    and emerging markets bonds. In 2001, we decided to terminate the
    anonymous convertible and municipal bond trading platforms and
    currently offer U.S. corporate bond and emerging markets
    bond trading on a fully disclosed basis only. The technology
    platform developed by Trading Edge and obtained by us through
    the acquisition is now the core of our product offerings.

In August 2001, one of our U.K. subsidiaries, MarketAxess Europe
    Limited, began operations with secondary electronic trading in
    U.S. dollar-denominated and Euro-denominated corporate
    bonds.

In February 2002, we reorganized into MarketAxess Holdings Inc.,
    a holding company that operates primarily through two operating
    subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation and MarketAxess Europe
    Limited. MarketAxess Corporation is registered as a
    broker-dealer, and MarketAxess Europe Limited is regulated as an
    alternative trading system, with applicable market regulators in
    the U.S. and the U.K., respectively. In May 2003, we
    incorporated a Canadian subsidiary, MarketAxess Canada Limited,
    which has applied for registration under the Securities Act in
    Ontario and is in the process of seeking approval for membership
    with the Investment Dealers Association of Canada.

We launched our information service, Corporate BondTicker, in
    July 2002. Corporate BondTicker combines NASD TRACE data with
    MarketAxess data and analytical tools to provide trading
    professionals, research firms, rating and news agencies, and
    other market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate
    bond information.

On November 4, 2004, we completed the initial public
    offering of our common stock. Specifically,
    5,750,000 shares of common stock, including an aggregate of
    750,000 shares of common stock covered by an over-allotment
    option granted by us to the underwriters, were sold at a price
    to the public of $11.00 per share. The aggregate proceeds
    to us from the offering were $63.2 million before deducting
    $4.4 million in underwriting discounts and commissions and
    an estimated $4.9 million in other expenses incurred in
    connection with the offering.

In September 2005, we launched electronic credit default swap
    trading on our platform.

In June 2006, we introduced
    DealerAxess

®

,
    which allows broker-dealer clients to transact
    U.S. corporate, emerging markets and high-yield bond trades
    on our platform with other broker-dealer clients. MarketAxess
    Corporation acts as intermediary in these transactions by
    serving as counterparty to the two broker-dealer clients
    involved.



Critical
    Factors Affecting Our Industry and Our Company

Economic,
    Political and Market Factors

The global fixed-income securities industry is risky and
    volatile and is directly affected by a number of economic,
    political and market factors that may result in declining
    trading volume. These factors could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. These factors include:

•

the current interest rate environment, including the volatility
    of interest rates and investors’ forecasts of future
    interest rates;

•

economic and political conditions in the United States, Europe
    and elsewhere;

•

the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and
    other institutional and retail investors;

•

the volume of new fixed-income securities being brought to the
    market;

•

investors’ assessment of the level of risk attributable to
    the issuers of corporate bonds;

•

adverse market conditions, including unforeseen market closures
    or other disruptions in trading;

•

concerns over inflation and weakening consumer confidence levels;

•

the level and volatility of foreign currency exchange rates; and

•

legislative and regulatory changes.

Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced
    trading activity in the fixed-income securities markets
    generally. Our revenues and profitability are likely to decline
    during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading
    volume in the U.S. and global fixed-income securities markets.

Competitive
    Landscape

The global fixed-income securities industry generally, and the
    electronic financial services markets in which we engage in
    particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to
    intensify in the future. We will continue to compete with bond
    trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their
    institutional investor clients over the telephone or
    electronically. In addition, our current and prospective
    competitors are numerous and include:

•

other multi-dealer trading companies;

•

market data and information vendors;

•

securities and futures exchanges;

•

inter-dealer brokerage firms;

•

electronic communications networks;

•

technology, software, information and media or other companies
    that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers
    or institutional investors; and

•

other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the
    securities business.

Competitors, including companies in which some of our
    broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic
    trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore
    the development of electronic platforms that may compete with us.

In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors,
    including:

•

the liquidity provided on our platform;

•

the magnitude and frequency of price improvement enabled by our
    platform;

•

the quality and speed of execution;



•

total transaction costs;

•

technology capabilities, including the ease of use of our
    trading platform; and

•

the range of our products and services.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these
    factors. Our trading volume and client acceptance have grown
    significantly over the past five years and we continue to
    proactively build technology solutions that serve the needs of
    the credit markets.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and
    integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor
    clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems.
    We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we
    serve in the development of our platform, working closely with
    our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs.

Many of our current and potential competitors are more
    established and substantially larger than we are, and have a
    substantially greater market presence, as well as greater
    financial, engineering, technical, marketing and other
    resources. These competitors may aggressively reduce their
    pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a
    leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses
    with profits from trading in other securities. In addition, many
    of our competitors offer a wide range of services, have broader
    name recognition and have larger customer bases. Some of them
    may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving
    opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we
    can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional
    activities.

Any combination of our competitors or our current broker-dealer
    clients may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide
    services similar to those provided by us. Others may acquire the
    capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions.
    Significant consolidation has occurred in our industry and these
    firms, as well as others that may undertake such consolidation
    in the future, are potential competitors of ours.

Regulatory
    Environment

Our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory
    changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in
    the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which
    could require us to incur significant costs.

Our U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation, is a
    registered broker-dealer with the SEC and is a member of the
    NASD. Our U.K. subsidiary, MarketAxess Europe Limited, is
    registered as an Alternative Trading System dealer with the FSA
    in the U.K. Both U.S. and U.K. regulations prohibit repayment of
    borrowings from these subsidiaries or their affiliates, paying
    cash dividends, making loans to us or our affiliates or
    otherwise entering into transactions that result in a
    significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial
    resources, without prior notification to or approval from such
    regulated entity’s principal regulator. MarketAxess Canada
    Limited, a Canadian subsidiary that we incorporated in May 2003,
    has applied for registration as an Alternative Trading System
    dealer under the Securities Act of Ontario and is in the process
    of seeking approval for membership with the Investment Dealers
    Association of Canada.

As a public company, we are subject to the reporting
    requirements of the Securities Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002 and NASDAQ rules promulgated in response to the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirements of these rules and
    regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance
    costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or
    costly and may also place undue strain on our systems and
    resources. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of
    our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
    financial reporting, significant resources and management
    oversight are required.

Rapid
    Technological Changes

We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading
    platform. The electronic financial services industry is
    characterized by increasingly complex systems and
    infrastructures and new business models. If new



industry standards and practices emerge, our existing
    technology, systems and electronic trading platform may become
    obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. Our future
    success will depend on our ability to:

•

enhance our existing products and services;

•

develop

and/or

license new products and technologies that address the
    increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our broker-dealer
    and institutional investor clients and prospective
    clients; and

•

respond to technological advances and emerging industry
    standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.

Trends in
    Our Business

The majority of our revenues are derived from commissions for
    transactions executed on our platform between our institutional
    investor and broker-dealer clients. We believe that there are
    five key variables that impact the notional value of such
    transactions on our platform and the amount of commissions
    earned by us:

•

the number of institutional investor clients that participate on
    the platform and their willingness to originate transactions
    through the platform;

•

the number of broker-dealer clients on the platform and the
    competitiveness of the prices they provide to the institutional
    investor clients;

•

the number of markets for which we make trading available to our
    clients;

•

the overall level of activity in these markets; and

•

the level of commissions that we collect for trades executed
    through the platform.

We believe that overall corporate bond market trading volume is
    affected by various factors including the absolute levels of
    interest rates, the direction of interest rate movements, the
    level of new issues of corporate bonds and the volatility of
    corporate bond spreads versus U.S. Treasury securities.
    Because a significant percentage of our revenue is tied directly
    to the volume of securities traded on our platform, it is likely
    that a general decline in trading volumes, regardless of the
    cause of such decline, would reduce our revenues and have a
    significant negative impact on profitability.

We have historically earned a substantial portion of our
    commissions and overall revenues from broker-dealer clients that
    are (or whose affiliates are) our stockholders. The percentage
    of our revenues derived from our broker-clients that are also
    our stockholders has been declining. For the year ended
    December 31, 2006, the percentage decreased to 46.0% from
    49.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Affiliates of
    most of our broker-dealer clients are also among our
    institutional investor clients. A table detailing the amount of
    revenues generated by the nine broker-dealer clients that were
    also stockholders as of January 1, 2006 (ABN AMRO, Banc of
    America Securities, Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse,
    Deutsche Bank Securities, JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers and



UBS), and their respective affiliates, as well as the
    corresponding percentage of total revenues, is provided below
    for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:

Year Ended December 31,




($ in thousands)

Total revenues generated by
    Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients

and their respective affiliates

Commissions

$

35,626

$

36,588

$

39,307

Information and user access fees

1,177

1,052


Investment income

1,007



Other




Total revenues generated by
    Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients and their respective affiliates

$

38,320

$

39,043

$

40,663

Percentage of total revenues
    generated by Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients and their
    respective affiliates

Commissions

49.9

%

54.7

%

57.7

%

Information and user access fees

21.5

%

23.7

%

17.0

%

Investment income

21.9

%

25.2

%

43.1

%

Other

53.8

%

57.3

%

58.1

%

Percentage of total revenues
    generated by Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients and their
    respective affiliates

46.0

%

49.7

%

53.6

%

Commission
    Revenue Trends

Commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the
    notional dollar volume of bonds traded on our platform and vary
    based on the type, size, yield and maturity of the bond traded.
    The commission rates are based on a number of factors, including
    fees charged by inter-dealer brokers in the respective markets,
    average bid-offer spreads in the products we offer, transaction
    costs through alternative channels including the telephone and
    the trading volume executed through our platform by the
    broker-dealer completing the trade. Under our transaction fee
    plans, bonds that are more actively traded or that have shorter
    maturities are generally charged lower commissions, while bonds
    that are less actively traded or that have longer maturities
    generally command higher commissions.

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bonds

On
    June 1, 2005, we introduced a new fee plan primarily for
    secondary market transactions in U.S. high-grade corporate
    bonds executed on our institutional client to multi-dealer
    electronic trading platform. Most of our U.S. high-grade
    broker-dealer clients signed new two-year agreements in 2005.
    The agreements incorporate higher fixed monthly fees and lower
    variable fees for our broker-dealer clients than the previous
    U.S. high-grade corporate transaction fee plans and incorporate
    volume incentives to our broker-dealer clients that are designed
    to increase the volume of transactions effected on our platform.
    Under the fee plan, we electronically add the variable fee to
    the spread quoted by the broker-dealer client but do not charge
    for inquiries that an institutional investor client sends to a
    single broker-dealer client. The combination of higher fixed and
    lower variable fees in the plan results in higher revenue to us
    at lower volume levels but will limit revenue growth in the
    future for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading as volume
    levels increase. For trades on our
    DealerAxess

®

dealer-to-dealer

electronic trading platform, we charge a fee to the
    broker-dealer client involved in the transaction that is based
    on the size of the transaction and the maturity of the bond
    traded. Monthly minimum fees apply to certain dealers
    participating on the
    DealerAxess

®

platform in their first year of trading, which are due to expire
    in July 2007.

European High-Grade Corporate Bonds

For
    European high-grade corporate bond trades, broker-dealer
    transaction fees vary based on the type of bond traded.
    Different fee schedules apply to fixed rate and floating rate
    bonds. Within the schedule for fixed rate bonds, the fee varies
    depending on whether the bond is a corporate or a sovereign
    issue. For corporate bonds, the fee also varies depending on the
    maturity of the issue. This fee schedule



applies a tiered fee structure, which reduces the fee per trade
    upon the attainment of certain specified amounts of monthly
    commissions generated by a particular broker-dealer and does not
    carry a fixed monthly fee or fee cap.

Other Commissions

Commissions for other bond
    trades generally vary based on the type and the maturity of the
    bond traded. Factors that we consider when setting commission
    rates include those charged by inter-dealer brokers in the
    respective markets, average bid-offer spreads in the products we
    serve and transaction costs through alternative channels
    including the telephone. For credit default swap index trades we
    charge commissions to both broker-dealer and institutional
    investor clients calculated as a percentage of the notional
    volume of transactions traded. Broker-dealer clients are able to
    select between standard fee schedules that contain monthly
    minimum commissions and, in some cases, monthly fee caps.

We anticipate that some reduction in average fees per million
    may occur in the future. Consequently, past trends in
    commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions.

Other
    Revenue Trends

In addition to the commissions discussed above, we earn revenue
    from certain fees paid by institutional investor and
    broker-dealer clients, from license fees and from income on
    investments.

Information and User Access Fees

We charge
    information services fees for Corporate BondTicker to our
    broker-dealer clients, institutional investor clients and
    data-only subscribers. The information services fee is a flat
    monthly fee, based on the level of service. We also generate
    information services fees from the sale of bulk data to certain
    institutional investor clients and data-only subscribers.
    Institutional investor clients trading U.S. high-grade
    corporate bonds are charged a monthly user access fee for the
    use of our platform. The fee, billed quarterly, is charged to
    the client based on the number of the client’s users. To
    encourage institutional investor clients to execute trades on
    our U.S. high-grade corporate bond platform, we reduce
    these information and user access fees for such clients once
    minimum quarterly trading volumes are attained.

License Fees

License fees consist of fees
    received from broker-dealer clients for access to our trading
    platform through a non-exclusive and non-transferable license.
    Broker-dealer clients, other than those that made equity
    investments in the Company, typically pay an initial license
    fee, which is due and payable upon execution of the
    broker-dealer agreement. The initial license fee varies by
    agreement and at a minimum is generally intended to cover the
    initial

set-up

costs
    incurred to enable a broker-dealer to begin using our electronic
    trading platform. The license fee is recognized in the first
    three months of the agreement in the estimated amount of the

set-up

costs
    that we incur and the remaining amount is amortized over the
    initial term of the agreement, which is generally three years.
    We anticipate that license fees will be a less material source
    of revenues for us on a going-forward basis.

Investment Income

Investment income consists
    of income earned on our investments. In November 2006, we
    commenced a $40 million share repurchase program.
    Investment income will decline as we use our cash to purchase
    our common stock under the share repurchase program.

Other

Other revenues consist of
    telecommunications line charges to broker-dealer clients and
    other miscellaneous revenues.

Expense
    Trends

In the normal course of business, we incur the following
    expenses:

Employee Compensation and Benefits

Employee
    compensation and benefits is our most significant expense and
    includes employee salaries, stock compensation costs, other
    incentive compensation, employee benefits and payroll taxes.
    Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R, which
    requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense
    for all share-based payment awards made to employees based on
    estimated fair values.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and
    amortization expense results from the depreciation of fixed
    assets, which consist of computer hardware, furniture and
    fixtures, and the amortization of software, capitalized software
    development costs and leasehold improvements. We depreciate our
    fixed assets and amortize our capitalized software development
    costs on a straight-line basis over a three-year period. We
    amortize leasehold



improvements on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the
    life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease.

Technology and Communications

Technology and
    communications expense consists primarily of costs relating to
    maintenance on software and hardware, our internal network
    connections, data center hosting costs and data feeds provided
    by outside vendors or service providers. The majority of our
    broker-dealer clients have dedicated high-speed communication
    lines to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. We
    charge our broker-dealer clients a monthly fee for these
    connections, which is recovered against the relevant expenses we
    incur.

Professional and Consulting Fees

Professional
    and consulting fees consist primarily of accounting fees, legal
    fees and fees paid to information technology and non-information
    technology consultants for services provided for the maintenance
    of our trading platform and information services products.

Warrant-related expense

Warrant-related
    expense is the expense associated with the allocation of shares
    of our common stock issuable pursuant to warrants issued to six
    of our broker-dealer clients at the time they made an equity
    investment in us. The warrant program was put in place in April
    2000 and was designed to motivate broker-dealers to trade on our
    platform. The final share allocations under the warrant program
    occurred on March 1, 2004. Accordingly, we no longer record
    any expense related to this program.

Marketing and Advertising

Marketing and
    advertising expense consists primarily of print and other
    advertising expenses we incur to promote our products and
    services. This expense also includes costs associated with
    attending or exhibiting at industry-sponsored seminars,
    conferences and conventions, and travel and entertainment
    expenses incurred by our sales force to promote our trading
    platform and information services.

Moneyline Revenue Share

Moneyline revenue
    share expense consists of expenses incurred pursuant to our
    agreement with Moneyline Telerate (“Moneyline”),
    formerly an independent technology and data company, which
    assisted us in the development of our U.S. high-grade
    corporate bond and European trading platforms. Pursuant to the
    agreement, a revenue share was paid quarterly to Moneyline based
    on a percentage of revenues generated on our
    U.S. high-grade corporate bond and European trading
    platforms, after deduction of identified development costs. In
    the first quarter of 2005, we ceased using the Moneyline
    technology and have therefore incurred no revenue share expense
    since that date.

General and Administrative

General and
    administrative expense consists primarily of occupancy and
    utilities, general travel and entertainment, board of directors
    expenses, charitable contributions, provision for doubtful
    accounts, and various state franchise and U.K. value-added taxes.

We anticipate expense growth in the future, primarily due to
    investment in new products, notably in employee compensation and
    benefits, professional and consulting fees, and general and
    administrative expense, but we believe that operating leverage
    can be achieved by increasing volumes in existing products and
    adding new products without substantial additions to our
    infrastructure.

Critical
    Accounting Policies

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations discusses our Consolidated
    Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance
    with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
    States, also referred to as U.S. GAAP. The preparation of
    these financial statements requires management to make estimates
    and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses
    during the reporting periods. We base our estimates and
    judgments on historical experience and on various other factors
    that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual
    results may differ from these estimates under varying
    assumptions or conditions. Note 2 of the Notes to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements includes a summary of the
    significant accounting policies and methods used in the
    preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Use of
    Estimates

On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and
    judgments, particularly as they relate to accounting policies
    that management believes are critical. That is, these accounting
    policies are most important to



the portrayal of our financial condition and results of
    operations and they require management’s most difficult,
    subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need
    to make estimates about the effect of matters that are
    inherently uncertain.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts

We continually monitor collections and payments from our
    customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts. The
    allowance for doubtful accounts is based upon the historical
    collection experience and specific collection issues that have
    been identified. Additions to the allowance for doubtful
    accounts are charged to Bad debt expense, which is included in
    General and administrative expense in our Consolidated
    Statements of Operations.

Software
    Development Costs

In accordance with Statement of Position

No. 98-1,

“Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or
    Obtained for Internal Use,” we capitalize certain costs
    associated with the development of internal use software at the
    point at which the conceptual formulation, design and testing of
    possible software project alternatives have been completed. We
    capitalize employee compensation and related benefits and third
    party consulting costs incurred during the preliminary software
    project stage. Once the product is ready for its intended use,
    such costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over three
    years. We review the amounts capitalized for impairment whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amounts of the assets may not be recoverable.

Revenue
    Recognition

The majority of our revenues are derived from commissions for
    trades executed on its platform that are billed to our
    broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. Commissions are
    generally calculated as a percentage of the notional dollar
    volume of bonds traded on the platform and vary based on the
    type and maturity of the bond traded. Under the our transaction
    fee plans, bonds that are more actively traded or that have
    shorter maturities are generally charged lower commissions,
    while bonds that are less actively traded or that have longer
    maturities generally command higher commissions.

We also derive revenues from information and user access fees,
    license fees, investment income and other income.

We enter into agreements with our broker-dealer clients pursuant
    to which we provide access to our platform through a
    non-exclusive and non-transferable license. Broker-dealer
    clients, other than those that previously made equity
    investments in us, generally pay an initial license fee, which
    is typically due and payable upon execution of the broker-dealer
    agreement. The initial license fee varies by agreement and at a
    minimum is intended to cover the initial

set-up

costs
    incurred to enable a broker-dealer to begin using our electronic
    trading platform. Revenue is recognized in the first three
    months of the agreement in the estimated amount of the

set-up

costs
    incurred (50% in the first month, 40% in the second month and
    10% in the third month), and the remaining amount is deferred
    and recognized ratably over the initial term of the agreement,
    which is generally three years. We anticipate that license fees
    will be a less material source of revenues on a going-forward
    basis.

Stock-Based
    Employee Compensation

Prior to January 1, 2006 we have accounted for stock-based
    employee compensation plans in accordance with Accounting
    Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock
    Issued to Employees” (“APB 25”), as
    permitted by SFAS No. 123. In accordance with
    APB 25, compensation expense is recognized for stock awards
    that have intrinsic value on the date of grant. Unearned
    compensation is amortized and charged to income over the vesting
    schedule. Our employee option grants usually vest over a
    three-year period from the date of issuance.

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R, which
    requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense
    for all share-based payment awards made to employees based on
    estimated fair values. In accordance with SFAS 123R,
    non-employee members of the Board of Directors are treated as
    employees.



SFAS 123R supersedes our previous accounting under
    APB 25 for periods beginning in fiscal 2006. In March 2005,
    the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107
    (“SAB 107”) relating to SFAS 123R. We have
    applied the provisions of SAB 107 in our adoption of
    SFAS 123R.

We adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective
    transition method, which requires the application of the
    accounting standard as of January 1, 2006. In accordance
    with the modified prospective transition method, our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for prior periods have not
    been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of
    SFAS 123R.

Income
    Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability
    method in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
    “Accounting for Income Taxes”
    (“SFAS 109”). Deferred income taxes reflect the
    net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial
    reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are
    measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in
    effect when such differences are expected to reverse. The effect
    on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates
    is recognized in income in the period that includes the
    enactment date. A valuation allowance is recognized against
    deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such
    assets will not be realized in future years.

Segment
    Results

As an electronic, multi-dealer to client platform for trading
    fixed-income securities, our operations constitute a single
    business segment pursuant to SFAS No. 131,
    “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
    Information.” Because of the highly integrated nature of
    the financial markets in which we compete and the integration of
    our worldwide business activities, we believe that results by
    geographic region, products or types of clients are not
    necessarily meaningful in understanding our business.

Stock
    Repurchase Program

On October 26, 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a
    stock repurchase program for up to $40 million of the our
    common stock. We intend to repurchase the shares in the open
    market or privately negotiated transactions, at times and prices
    considered appropriate by us. Shares repurchased under the
    program will be held in treasury for future use. As of
    December 31, 2006, we had repurchased 190,500 shares
    at a purchase price of $2.7 million. Through March 9,
    2007, a total of 1,475,756 shares had been repurchased at a
    cost of $19.4 million.



Results
    of Operations

The following table presents our consolidated operating results
    expressed in U.S. dollars and as a percentage of total
    revenues for each of the years presented:

Year Ended December 31,




$

% of Revenues

$

% of Revenues

$

% of Revenues

($ in thousands)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade

$

47,752

57.3

%

$

45,615

58.1

%

$

45,465

60.00

%

European high-grade

15,368

18.4

14,078

17.9

15,142

20.00

Other

8,310

10.0

7,225

9.2

7,565

10.00

Total commissions

71,430

85.7

66,918

85.2

68,172

90.0

Information and user access fees

5,477

6.6

4,435

5.6

2,713

3.6

License fees


1.0

2,988

3.8

3,143

4.1

Interest income

4,595

5.5

3,160

4.0


1.2

Other


1.2

1,059

1.4


1.1

Total revenues

83,316

100.0

78,560

100.0

75,797

100.0

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

42,078

50.5

35,445

45.1

33,146

43.7

Depreciation and amortization

6,728

8.1

5,649

7.2

3,468

4.6

Technology and communications

7,704

9.2

7,401

9.4

6,402

8.5

Professional and consulting fees

8,072

9.8

9,355

11.9

4,908

6.5

Warrant-related expense

—

—

—

—

2,524

3.3

Marketing and advertising

1,769

2.1

2,581

3.3

2,530

3.3

Moneyline revenue share

—

—

(50

)

—

1,240

1.6

General and administrative

8,361

10.0

6,618

8.4

4,263

5.6

Total expenses

74,712

89.7

66,999

85.3

58,481

77.1

Income before taxes

8,604

10.3

11,561

14.7

17,316

22.9

Provision (benefit) for income tax

3,183

3.8

3,419

4.3

(40,271

)

(53.1

)

Net income

$

5,421

6.5

%

$

8,142

10.4

%

$

57,587

76.0

%



Our trading volume for each of the years presented was as
    follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Trading Volume Data (in
    billions)

U.S. high-grade —
    multi dealer

$

176.4

$

170.1

$

183.5

U.S. high-grade —
    single dealer

19.0

7.5

—

Total U.S. high-grade

195.4

177.6

183.5

European high-grade

87.6

73.4

76.5

Other

56.6

48.2

38.1

Total

$

339.6

$

299.2

$

298.1

Number of U.S. Trading Days




Number of U.K. Trading Days




For volume reporting purposes, transactions in foreign
    currencies are converted to U.S. dollars at the exchange
    rate prevailing on the day the transactions were executed.

Single-dealer inquiries represent U.S. high-grade trades on
    which no fees were charged in accordance with the
    U.S. high-grade corporate bond fee plan that went into
    effect on June 1, 2005.

Credit default swap trading volume data are included in Other.

Trading volume data related to
    DealerAxess

®

bond trading between broker-dealer clients are included in
    either U.S. high-grade or Other trading volumes, as
    appropriate.

Our active institutional investor clients and our broker-dealer
    clients for each of the years presented were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Institutional Investor
    Clients:

U.S.




Europe




Total




Broker-Dealer Clients




Year
    Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2005

Overview

Total revenues increased by $4.8 million or 6.1% to
    $83.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $78.6 million for the year ended December 31,
    2005. This increase in total revenues was primarily due to
    increases in total commissions of $4.5 million, investment
    income of $1.4 million and information and user access fees
    of $1.0 million, offset in part by a decrease of
    $2.1 million in license fees.

Total expenses increased by $7.7 million or 11.5% to
    $74.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $67.0 million for the year ended December 31,
    2005. This increase was primarily due to increases of
    $6.6 million in employee compensation and benefits,
    $1.7 million in general and administrative expense,
    $1.1 million in depreciation and amortization and
    $0.3 million in technology and communications. These
    increases were offset by decreases in professional and
    consulting fees of $1.3 million and in marketing and
    advertising of $0.8 million. Excluding the impact of the
    incremental non-cash SFAS 123R stock option expense of
    $3.2 million, total expenses for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 increased by $4.5 million or 6.7%,
    to $71.5 million from $67.0 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2005.



For the year ended December 31, 2006, Income before taxes,
    which includes the incremental non-cash impact of SFAS 123R
    stock option expense, decreased by $3.0 million or 25.6% to
    $8.6 million compared to Income before taxes of
    $11.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
    Net income decreased by $2.7 million or 33.4% to
    $5.4 million compared to Net income of $8.1 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2005.

Revenues

Our revenues and percentage of revenues for the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the resulting dollar and
    percentage changes, are as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



% of

% of

$

$

Revenues

$

Revenues

Change

% Change

($ in thousands)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade

$

47,752

57.3

%

$

45,615

58.1

%

$

2,137

4.7

%

European high-grade

15,368

18.4

14,078

17.9

1,290

9.2

Other

8,310

10.0

7,225

9.2

1,085

15.0

Total commissions

71,430

85.7

66,918

85.2

4,512

6.7

Information and user access fees

5,477

6.6

4,435

5.6

1,042

23.5

License fees


1.0

2,988

3.8

(2,122

)

(71.0

)

Investment income

4,595

5.5

3,160

4.0

1,435

45.4

Other


1.2

1,059

1.4

(111

)

(10.5

)

Total revenues

$

83,316

100.0

%

$

78,560

100.0

%

$

4,756

6.1

%

Commissions.

Total commissions increased by
    $4.5 million or 6.7% to $71.4 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 from $66.9 million for 2005.
    The following table shows the extent to which the increase in
    commissions for the year ended December 31, 2006 was
    attributable to transaction volumes, fixed monthly distribution
    and
    DealerAxess

®

minimum fees as well as the average level of variable
    transaction fees:

Change from Prior Year Ended

December 31, 2005

U.S.

European

High-Grade

High-Grade

Other

Total

(In thousands)

Volume increases

$

2,096

$

2,741

$

1,265

$

6,102

Fixed monthly distribution and
    DealerAxess

®

minimum fees

8,018

—

—

8,018

Average variable transaction fee
    decreases

(7,977

)

(1,451

)

(180

)

(9,608

)

Total commissions increase

$

2,137

$

1,290

$

1,085

$

4,512

Our average fees per million traded for the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Average Fee Per Million
    Traded

U.S. high-grade

$


$


European high-grade

$


$


Other

$


$


All Products

$


$




The U.S. high-grade average fee per million is calculated
    for each period presented using both the variable transaction
    fees and the fixed monthly fees paid by our broker-dealer
    clients.

The average U.S. high-grade fee per million decreased due
    to the introduction in June 2005 of our new fee plan, which has
    higher fixed monthly distribution fees and lower transaction
    fees, resulting in lower average fees per million at higher
    trading volumes, as well as the shorter maturity of trades
    executed on the platform. This has been partially offset by the
    introduction of bond trading between broker-dealer clients
    through our
    DealerAxess

®

product in June 2006. The fixed monthly U.S. high-grade
    fixed distribution fees and the
    DealerAxess

®

monthly minimum fees were $32.6 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, compared to $24.6 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2005.

The decrease in the average European high-grade fee per million
    from 2005 to 2006 resulted from higher trading volumes in
    floating-rate notes, which have lower fees per million. The
    decrease in the average Other fees per million resulted
    primarily from a change in the mix of business.

Information and User Access Fees.

Information
    and user access fees increased by $1.0 million or 23.5% to
    $5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $4.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
    This increase was primarily due to an increase in the number of
    subscribers to our Corporate BondTicker service from 2,942 for
    the year ended December 31, 2005 to 4,629 for the year
    ended December 31, 2006.

License Fees.

License fees decreased by
    $2.1 million or 71.0% to $0.9 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 from $3.0 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2005. This decrease was attributable to
    a decline in the amortization of previously received license
    fees. We anticipate that license fees will be a less material
    source of revenues for us on a going-forward basis.

Investment Income.

Investment income increased
    by $1.4 million or 45.4% to $4.6 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 from $3.2 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2005. This increase was primarily due to
    higher Cash and cash equivalents and Securities

available-for-sale

balances and a rise in interest rates during the year ended
    December 31, 2006 as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2005.

Other.

Other revenues decreased by
    $0.1 million or 10.5% to $0.9 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 from $1.1 million for the
    comparable period in 2005.

Expenses

Our expenses and percentage of revenues for the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the resulting dollar and
    percentage changes, are as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



% of

% of

$

Revenues

$

Revenues

$ Change

% Change

($ in thousands)

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

$

42,078

50.5

%

$

35,445

45.1

%

$

6,633

18.7

%

Depreciation and amortization

6,728

8.1

5,649

7.2

1,079

19.1

Technology and communications

7,704

9.2

7,401

9.4


4.1

Professional and consulting fees

8,072

9.8

9,355

11.9

(1,283

)

(13.7

)

Marketing and advertising

1,769

2.1

2,581

3.3

(812

)

(31.5

)

Moneyline revenue share

—

—

(50

)

—


—

General and administrative

8,361

10.0

6,618

8.4

1,743

26.3

Total expenses

$

74,712

89.7

%

$

66,999

85.3

%

$

7,713

11.5

%

Employee Compensation and Benefits.

Employee
    compensation and benefits increased by $6.6 million or
    18.7% to $42.1 million for the year ended December 31,
    2006 from $35.4 million for the year ended December 31
    2005. This increase was primarily attributable to incremental
    stock option compensation costs of $3.2 million due to



the adoption of SFAS 123R effective January 1, 2006,
    higher salary expense of $2.0 million, employee severance
    costs of $1.7 million and other stock compensation costs of
    $0.6 million, offset by a reduction in employee benefits
    and payroll taxes of $0.5 million and lower incentive
    compensation costs of $0.4 million. The total number of
    employees decreased to 176 as of December 31, 2006 from 182
    as of December 31, 2005. As a percentage of total revenues,
    employee compensation and benefits expense increased to 50.5%
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 from 45.1% for the
    year ended December 31, 2005.

Depreciation and Amortization.

Depreciation
    and amortization expense increased by $1.1 million or 19.1%
    to $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $5.6 million for the year ended December 31,
    2005. This increase was attributable to increased amortization
    of capitalized software development costs for our credit default
    swap and DealerAxessproducts. For the year ended
    December 31, 2006, we capitalized $4.1 million of
    software development costs and $2.7 million of computer and
    related equipment purchases.

Technology and Communications.

Technology and
    communications expense increased by $0.3 million or 4.1% to
    $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
    This increase was attributable to increased cost relating to the
    purchase of market data.

Professional and Consulting Fees.

Professional
    and consulting fees decreased by $1.3 million or 13.7% to
    $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
    This decrease was primarily due to $0.9 million in
    recruiting fees and $0.8 million in information technology
    consulting costs.

Marketing and Advertising.

Marketing and
    advertising expense decreased by $0.8 million or 31.5% to
    $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
    This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in advertising
    expenditures of $0.7 million.

General and Administrative.

General and
    administrative expense increased by $1.7 million or 26.3%
    to $8.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $6.6 million for the comparable period in 2005. This
    increase was primarily due to increases in franchise and sales
    taxes of $0.7 million, occupancy costs of
    $0.6 million, provision for bad debts of $0.2 million
    and $0.2 million in foreign currency translation losses.

Provision
    for Income Tax

For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded an income
    tax provision of $3.2 million. The provision consists
    principally of $1.8 million in federal taxes,
    $1.1 million in state and local taxes and $0.3 million
    in foreign taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we
    recorded an income tax provision of $3.4 million. The
    provision consists principally of $1.6 million in federal
    taxes, $1.0 million in state and local taxes and
    $0.8 million in foreign taxes. For the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, with the exception of the
    payment of certain state and local taxes, the provision for
    income taxes was a non-cash expense since we had available net
    operating loss carryforwards and tax credits to offset the cash
    payment of taxes.

Our consolidated effective tax rate for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 was 37.0% and for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 was 29.6%. The 2005 tax provision
    included a $2.9 million reduction in our valuation
    allowance against the deferred tax asset. Our consolidated
    effective tax rate can vary from period to period depending on,
    among other factors, the geographic and business mix of our
    earnings.

As of December 31, 2006, we had net operating loss and tax
    credit carryforwards for income tax purposes of
    $101.6 million. We have recorded a valuation allowance of
    $14.8 million against the gross deferred tax assets of
    $56.6 million arising from the net operating loss
    carryforwards and temporary differences relating to the
    deductibility of certain expenses for book and tax purposes.
    This valuation allowance was deemed appropriate due to available
    evidence indicating that some of the deferred tax assets might
    not be realized in future years.



Year
    Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2004

Overview

Total revenues increased by $2.8 million or 3.6% to
    $78.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
    from $75.8 million for the year ended December 31,
    2004. This increase in total revenues was primarily due to an
    increase in interest income of $2.3 million and information
    and user access fees of $1.7 million, offset in part by a
    decrease of $1.3 million in total commissions.

Total expenses increased by $8.5 million or 14.6% to
    $67.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
    from $58.5 million for the comparable period in 2004. This
    increase was primarily due to increases of $4.4 million in
    professional and consulting fees, $2.4 million in general
    and administrative expense, $2.3 million in employee
    compensation and benefits, $2.0 million in technology and
    communications, and $1.1 million in depreciation and
    amortization expense, offset by decreases in warrant-related
    expense and Moneyline revenue share, in each case compared to
    the comparable period in 2004.

Income before taxes decreased by $5.8 million to
    $11.6 million compared to Income before taxes of
    $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
    Net income decreased by $49.4 million to $8.1 million
    compared to Net income of $57.6 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2004. This decrease was primarily due to a net
    income tax benefit of $40.3 million that was recorded for
    the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the reduction of
    the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, we reduced the
    valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets by
    $2.9 million to $15.2 million based on
    management’s assessment of the factors impacting the
    valuation allowance previously recorded. In addition, we
    adjusted the income tax rate used for recording the deferred tax
    assets, resulting in a decrease in the deferred tax assets and
    an increase in tax expense of $1.8 million. Without giving
    effect to the adjustment to the income tax rate used for
    recognizing the deferred tax assets and the reduction in the
    valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets, our net
    income for the year ended December 31, 2005 would have been
    $7.0 million.

Revenues

Our revenues and percentage of revenues for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the resulting dollar and
    percentage changes, are as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



% of

% of

$

Revenues

$

Revenues

$ Change

% Change

($ in thousands)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade

$

45,615

58.1

%

$

45,465

60.0

%

$


0.3

%

European high-grade

14,078

17.9

15,142

20.0

(1,064

)

(7.0

)

Other

7,225

9.2

7,565

10.0

(340

)

(4.5

)

Total commissions

66,918

85.2

68,172

90.0

(1,254

)

(1.8

)

Information and user access fees

4,435

5.6

2,713

3.6

1,722

63.5

License fees

2,988

3.8

3,143

4.1

(155

)

(4.9

)

Investment income

3,160

4.0


1.2

2,278

258.3

Other

1,059

1.4


1.1


19.4

Total revenues

$

78,560

100.0

%

$

75,797

100.0

%

$

2,763

3.6

%



Commissions.

Total commissions decreased by
    $1.3 million or 1.8% to $66.9 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2005 from $68.2 million for the
    comparable period in 2004. The following table shows the extent
    to which the decrease in commissions for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 was attributable to transaction volumes,
    fixed monthly distribution fees and the average level of
    variable transaction fees:

Change from Prior Year

Ended December 31, 2004

U.S.

European

High-Grade

High-Grade

Other

Total

(In thousands)

Volume increases / (decreases)

$

(855

)

$

(622

)

$

1,999

$


Fixed monthly distribution fees

6,100

—

—

6,100

Average variable transaction fee
    decreases

(5,095

)

(442

)

(2,339

)

(7,876

)

Total commissions increase

$


$

(1,064

)

$

(340

)

$

(1,254

)

Our average fees per million traded for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Average Fee Per Million
    Traded

U.S. high-grade

$


$


European high-grade

$


$


Other

$


$


All Products

$


$


The U.S. high-grade average fee per million is calculated
    for each period presented using both the variable transaction
    fees and the fixed monthly fees paid by our broker-dealer
    clients.

The average U.S. high-grade fee per million increased due
    to the introduction in June 2005 of our new fee plan, which has
    higher fixed monthly distribution fees. The fixed monthly
    U.S. high-grade fixed distribution fees were
    $24.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
    compared to $18.5 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2004.

The decrease in the average European high-grade and Other fees
    per million resulted primarily from a change in the mix of
    business.

Information and User Access Fees.

Information
    and user access fees increased by $1.7 million or 63.5% to
    $4.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
    $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
    This increase was primarily due to an increase in the number of
    subscribers to our Corporate BondTicker service.

License Fees.

License fees decreased by
    $0.2 million or 4.9% to $3.0 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2005 from $3.1 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2004. This decrease was due to the
    addition of three new broker-dealer clients in the year ended
    December 31, 2005 compared to four new broker-dealer
    clients added in the year ended December 31, 2004.

Investment Income.

Interest income increased
    by $2.3 million or 258.3% to $3.2 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2005 from $0.9 million for the
    comparable period in 2004. This increase was primarily due to
    higher Cash and cash equivalents and Securities

available-for-sale

balances during the year ended December 31, 2005 as
    compared to the year ended December 31, 2004.

Other.

Other revenues increased by
    $0.2 million or 19.4% to $1.1 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2005 from $0.9 million for the
    comparable period in 2004. This increase was primarily due to a
    financial statement reclassification to recognize as revenue the
    gross telecommunication line fees paid by broker-dealer clients.



Expenses

Our expenses and percentage of revenues for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the resulting dollar and
    percentage changes, are as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



% of

% of

$

Revenues

$

Revenues

$ Change

% Change

($ in thousands)

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

$

35,445

45.1

%

$

33,146

43.7

%

$

2,299

6.9

%

Depreciation and amortization

5,649

7.2

3,468

4.6

2,181

62.9

Technology and communications

7,401

9.4

6,402

8.5


15.6

Professional and consulting fees

9,355

11.9

4,908

6.5

4,447

90.6

Warrant-related expense

—

—

2,524

3.3

(2,524

)

(100.0

)

Marketing and advertising

2,581

3.3

2,530

3.3


2.0

Moneyline revenue share

(50

)

—

1,240

1.6

(1,290

)

(104.0

)

General and administrative

6,618

8.4

4,263

5.6

2,355

55.2

Total expenses

$

66,999

85.3

%

58,481

77.1

%

$

8,518

14.6

%

Employee Compensation and Benefits.

Employee
    compensation and benefits increased by $2.3 million or 6.9%
    to $35.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
    from $33.1 million for the year ended December 31
    2004. The total number of employees increased to 182 as of
    December 31, 2005 from 172 as of December 31, 2004.
    This increase was primarily due to the addition of new employees
    to support our growth (including the development of credit
    derivatives trading services) and higher payroll tax
    contributions relating to employee stock options for staff of
    MarketAxess Europe, higher staff benefits and lower
    capitalization of technology development compensation. As a
    percentage of total revenues, employee compensation and benefits
    expense increased to 45.1% for the year ended December 31,
    2005 from 43.7% for the year ended December 31, 2004.

Depreciation and Amortization.

Depreciation
    and amortization expense increased by $2.2 million or 62.9%
    to $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
    from $3.5 million for the year ended December 31,
    2004. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we capitalized
    $3.4 million of software development costs and
    $1.4 million of computer and related equipment purchases.
    During 2004, we purchased $2.8 million of computer and
    related equipment for our new disaster recovery facility, which
    went into production in May 2005, causing our depreciation
    expense to increase in 2005. In November 2004, we determined
    that our trading platform software developed by us with input
    from Moneyline, a stockholder, would be retired by
    March 31, 2005. Therefore, we accelerated depreciation of
    this software.

Technology and Communications.

Technology and
    communications expense increased by $1.0 million or 15.6%
    to $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
    from $6.4 million for the year ended December 31,
    2004. This increase was attributable to increased costs relating
    to the purchase of market data, production telecommunications
    and software maintenance.

Professional and Consulting Fees.

Professional
    and consulting fees increased by $4.4 million or 90.6% to
    $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
    $4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
    This increase was primarily due to additional audit and tax,
    legal, insurance and investor relations expenses associated with
    being a public company, and increased consulting and recruiting
    fees.

Marketing and Advertising.

Marketing and
    advertising expense increased by $51 thousand or 2.0% to
    $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
    $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
    This increase was primarily due to expenses we incurred for
    print and other advertising used to promote our electronic
    trading platform.



Moneyline Revenue Share.

Moneyline revenue
    share expense decreased by $1.3 million or 104.0% to a
    benefit of $50 thousand from $1.2 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2005 due to termination of the Moneyline
    revenue share agreement and reversal of a prior period
    over-accrual in the first quarter of 2005.

General and Administrative.

General and
    administrative expense increased by $2.4 million or 55.2%
    to $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
    from $4.3 million for the comparable period in 2004. This
    increase was due to a number of factors, including increases in
    rent, board of directors’ costs, travel and entertainment,
    value-added tax and charitable contributions.

Provision
    for Income Tax

For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded an income
    tax provision of $3.4 million. The provision consisted
    principally of $1.6 million in federal taxes,
    $1.0 million in state and local taxes and $0.8 million
    in foreign taxes. With the exception of the payment of certain
    state and local taxes, the provision for income taxes was a
    non-cash expense since we had available net operating loss
    carryforwards and tax credits to offset the cash payment of
    taxes.

For the year ended December 31, 2004, we recorded a net
    income tax benefit of $40.3 million. The benefit consisted
    of a reduction in the valuation allowance relating to our
    deferred tax assets of $46.1 million, the recognition of
    $2.1 million in tax credits and an additional tax benefit
    for operating losses of $1.5 million. This was offset with
    a charge of $9.4 million, which includes federal, state and
    local and foreign taxes.

Our consolidated effective tax rate for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 was 29.6%. Our consolidated effective tax
    rate can vary from period to period depending on, among other
    factors, the geographic and business mix of our earnings.

As of December 31, 2005, we had net operating loss
    carryforwards for income tax purposes of $104.1 million. We
    recorded a valuation allowance of $15.2 million against the
    gross deferred tax assets of $57.9 million arising from the
    net operating loss carryforwards and temporary differences
    relating to the deductibility of certain expenses for book and
    tax purposes. This valuation allowance was deemed appropriate
    due to available evidence indicating that some of the deferred
    tax assets might not be realized in future years.

Quarterly
    Results of Operations

Our quarterly results have varied significantly as a result of:

•

changes in trading volume due to market conditions, a decrease
    in the number of trading days in certain quarters, and
    seasonality effects caused by slow-downs in trading activity
    during certain periods;

•

increases in the number of broker-dealers and institutional
    investors using our trading platform as well as increased usage
    by existing clients;

•

expansion of the products we offer to our clients; and

•

variance in our expenses.



The following table sets forth certain consolidated quarterly
    income statement data for the eight quarters ended
    December 31, 2006. In our opinion, this unaudited
    information has been prepared on a basis consistent with our
    annual financial statements and includes all adjustments
    (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary for
    a fair statement of the unaudited quarterly data. This
    information should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated
    Financial Statements and related Notes included in this Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K.

The results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily
    indicative of results that we may achieve for any subsequent
    periods.

Three Months Ended

March 31,

June 30,

Sept 30,

Dec 31,

March 31,

June 30,

Sept 30,

Dec 31,









(In thousands)

(Unaudited)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade(1)

$

12,518

$

11,562

$

10,820

$

10,715

$

11,029

$

10,975

$

12,250

$

13,498

European high-grade(2)

4,401

3,336

3,132

3,209

4,338

4,089

3,290

3,651

Other(3)

1,734

1,828

1,837

1,826

2,120

2,194

2,057

1,939

Total commissions

18,653

16,726

15,789

15,750

17,487

17,258

17,597

19,088

Information and user access fees(4)

1,035

1,004

1,165

1,231

1,359

1,323

1,426

1,369

License fees



1,032






Interest income(5)






1,084

1,266

1,283

Other(6)









Total revenues

21,308

19,282

19,088

18,882

20,340

20,122

20,774

22,080

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

9,244

8,673

9,030

8,498

10,283

10,498

10,483

10,814

Depreciation and amortization

1,225

1,424

1,525

1,475

1,685

1,637

1,703

1,703

Technology and communications

1,625

1,823

1,952

2,001

2,052

1,791

1,956

1,905

Professional and consulting fees

1,894

2,735

2,423

2,303

2,551

2,488

1,883

1,150

Marketing and advertising









Moneyline revenue share

(50

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

General and administrative

1,304

1,223

1,914

2,177

1,992

1,845

2,181

2,343

Total expenses

15,935

16,467

17,347

17,250

18,941

18,736

18,544

18,491

Income before taxes

5,373

2,815

1,741

1,632

1,399

1,386

2,230

3,589

Provision (benefit) for income
    tax(7)

2,316



(458

)




1,351

Net income

$

3,057

$

1,824

$

1,171

$

2,090

$

1,086

$


$

1,297

$

2,238



(7)

During the three months ended December 31, 2005, we reduced
    the valuation allowance by $2.9 million to
    $15.2 million based on management’s current assessment
    of the factors impacting the valuation allowance previously
    recorded. Such factors include management’s expectation of
    continuing future profitable operations and judgment concerning
    future utilization of certain net operating losses that are
    subject to Section 382 limitations prior to their
    expiration. In addition, we adjusted the income tax rate used
    for recording the deferred tax assets, resulting in a decrease
    in the deferred tax assets and an increase in tax expense of
    $1.8 million. Without giving effect to the adjustment to
    the income tax rate used for recognizing the deferred tax assets
    and the reduction in the valuation allowance against the
    deferred tax assets, our net income for the three months ended
    December 31, 2005 would have been $1.0 million.

The following tables set forth trading volume and average fee
    per million traded for the eight quarters ended
    December 31, 2006.

Three Months Ended

March 31,

June 30,

Sept 30,

Dec 31,

March 31,

June 30,

Sept 30,

Dec 31,









Trading Volume Data (in
    billions)

U.S. high-grade —
    multi dealer

$

54.8

$

43.8

$

35.7

$

35.9

$

40.6

$

39.1

$

44.6

$

52.1

U.S. high-grade —
    single dealer

—

0.9

3.3

3.3

5.3

4.1

5.1

4.5

Total U.S. high-grade

54.8

44.7

39.0

39.2

45.9

43.2

49.7

56.6

European high-grade

22.9

17.0

16.3

17.3

24.0

22.8

18.7

22.1

Other

11.5

10.5

13.3

12.9

14.6

13.4

15.3

13.3

Total

$

89.2

$

72.2

$

68.6

$

69.4

$

84.5

$

79.4

$

83.7

$

92.0

Three Months Ended

March 31,

June 30,

Sept 30,

Dec 31,

March 31,

June 30,

Sept 30,

Dec 31,









Average Fee Per Million
    Traded:

U.S. high-grade

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


European high-grade

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Other

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


All Products

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Number of U.S. trading days









Number of U.K. trading days









On a quarterly basis, our commission revenues have fluctuated
    primarily as a result of changes in the overall volumes in the
    markets in which we operate as well as our share of those
    volumes. U.S. high-grade volume in 2006 increased by
    $17.8 billion or 10.0% when compared to 2005.

European high-grade trading volume increased by
    $14.3 billion or 19.4% between 2005 and 2006 as a result of
    increased volume traded by existing clients on the platform.

Other trading volume increased by $8.4 billion or 17.5%,
    primarily as a result of an increase in the volume of agency
    bonds traded, partially offset by a decline in new issue
    transactions.



Liquidity
    and Capital Resources

Since our inception, we have met our funding requirements
    through the issuance of our preferred stock, internally
    generated funds and our initial public offering in November
    2004. Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments and
    Securities-available-for-sale totaled $103.4 million at
    December 31, 2004, $118.1 million at December 31,
    2005 and $131.0 million at December 31, 2006. The
    changes in the balances were the result of operating cash flow.
    In January 2005, we invested the net proceeds of our initial
    public offering in commercial paper, municipal bonds and
    short-term corporate bonds. To limit our exposure to foreign
    currency fluctuations from MarketAxess Europe Limited and
    MarketAxess Leasing Limited, our U.K. subsidiaries, we use
    foreign currency forward contracts in which we sell Pounds
    Sterling and buy U.S. dollars for forward settlement.

Current assets consists of Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term
    investments, Securities provided as collateral, Accounts
    receivable and Prepaid expenses and other assets. Current assets
    as a percentage of total assets represented 70.4% at
    December 31, 2004, 73.4% at December 31, 2005 and
    75.6% at December 31, 2006. In addition, our current ratio,
    which is computed by dividing current assets by current
    liabilities, was 6.1 at December 31, 2004, 7.1 at
    December 31, 2005 and 8.1 at December 31, 2006.
    Current liabilities were comprised of Accrued employee
    compensation, Deferred revenue, Accounts payable and accrued
    expenses. We have no long-term or short-term debt and do not
    maintain bank lines of credit.

On October 26, 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a
    stock repurchase program for up to $40 million of our
    common stock. Shares repurchased under the program will be held
    in treasury for future use. As of December 31, 2006, we had
    repurchased 190,500 shares at a purchase price of
    $2.7 million. Through March 9, 2007, a total of
    1,475,756 shares had been repurchased at a cost of
    $19.4 million.

Our contingent liabilities and commitments consist of our
    non-cancelable leases for office space and our foreign exchange
    forward contracts. As of December 31, 2006, the minimum
    rentals under our leases, net of sublease income, were as
    follows:

Minimum

Year Ended December 31,

Rentals

(In thousands)


$

2,501


2,509


2,516


1,375



2012 and thereafter

3,578

Total

$

13,465

A standby letter of credit is used as security for a long-term
    office space lease and is collateralized by U.S. Treasury
    securities with a fair value of $3.3 million as of
    December 31, 2006. U.S. Treasury securities are
    replaced as they mature to continually collateralize the letter
    of credit.

Our cash flows were as follows for the years presented below:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Net cash provided by operating
    activities

$

17,101

$

16,908

$

20,733

Net cash provided by (used in)
    investing activities

4,231

(59,034

)

2,520

Net cash provided by financing
    activities

2,818

2,709

54,169

Effect of exchange rate changes on
    cash

(339

)

(46

)

(361

)

Net increase (decrease) for the
    period

$

23,811

$

(39,463

)

$

77,061



Operating
    Activities

Commissions, information and user access fees, and general
    operating expenses are the key factors that influence our cash
    flow. At December 31, 2006, we had Cash and cash
    equivalents of $82.0 million, an increase of
    $23.8 million or 40.9% compared to $58.2 million at
    December 31, 2005. For the year ended, December 31,
    2005, Cash and cash equivalents decreased by $39.5 million
    compared to $97.7 million at December 31, 2004.

As of December 31, 2006, Cash and cash equivalents
    represented 40.1% of our total assets compared to 30.6% and
    55.3% at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
    increase in Cash and cash equivalents in 2006 was due primarily
    to net cash provided by operations. The decrease in Cash and
    cash equivalents in 2005 was primarily due to investments in
    Securities-available-for-sale. The increase of Cash and cash
    equivalents in 2004 was primarily from the net proceeds of our
    initial public offering.

Net cash provided by operating activities was
    $17.1 million, $16.9 million and $20.7 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

Cash provided by operating activities of $17.1 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2006 consisted of net income of
    $5.4 million, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily
    consisting of charges of $6.7 million for depreciation and
    amortization, $6.4 million related to the issuance of stock
    options and restricted stock, $0.9 million for deferred
    taxes and a $0.7 million provision for bad debts. These
    non-cash charges were offset by an increase in cash used for
    working capital of $3.0 million.

Cash provided by operating activities of $16.9 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2005 consisted of net income of
    $8.1 million, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily
    consisting of charges of $4.6 million for depreciation and
    amortization, $1.9 million related to the issuance of stock
    options and restricted stock and a $3.0 million charge for
    deferred taxes. These non-cash charges were offset by an
    increase in cash used for working capital of $1.7 million.

Cash provided by operating activities of $20.7 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2004 consisted of net income of
    $57.6 million, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily
    consisting of $40.4 million for deferred taxes,
    $3.5 million for depreciation and amortization and
    $2.5 million for warrant-related expense. These non-cash
    charges were offset by an increase in cash used for working
    capital of $2.8 million.

Investing
    Activities

For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2004, net cash
    provided by investing activities was $4.2 million and
    $2.5 million, respectively. Net cash used in investing
    activities was $59.0 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2005.

Cash provided by investing activities of $4.2 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2006 consisted of net proceeds
    of Securities-available-for-sale of $11.0 million, offset
    by purchases of furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements
    of $2.7 million and capitalization of software development
    costs of $4.1 million.

Cash used in investing activities of $59.0 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2005 consisted of net purchases of
    Securities-available-for-sale of $60.0 million, purchases
    of furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements of
    $1.4 million and capitalization of software development
    costs of $3.4 million, offset by maturity of short-term
    investments of $5.8 million.

Cash provided by investing activities of $2.5 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2004 consisted of net
    maturities of short-term investments of $9.8 million,
    offset by purchases of furniture, equipment and leasehold
    improvements of $3.4 million, capitalization of software
    development costs of $3.6 million, and maturities of
    securities provided as collateral of $0.3 million.

Financing
    Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities was $2.8 million,
    $2.7 million and $54.2 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.



Cash provided by financing activities in 2006 was primarily the
    result of stock option exercises of $3.8 million and
    $1.7 million from excess tax benefits from share-based
    compensation, offset by $2.7 million of treasury stock
    purchased.

Cash provided by financing activities in 2005 consisted
    primarily of $2.7 million from the issuance of common stock
    and the exercise of stock options.

Cash provided by financing activities in 2004 primarily
    consisted of $53.9 million in proceeds from our initial
    public offering completed in November 2004.

Other
    Factors Influencing Liquidity and Capital
    Resources

We are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, nine of which are
    also our stockholders, who are not restricted from buying and
    selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own
    proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional
    investors. None of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or
    otherwise obligated to continue to use our electronic trading
    platform. The loss of, or a significant reduction in the use of
    our electronic platform by, our broker-dealer clients could
    reduce our cash flows, affect our liquidity and have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

We believe that our current resources are adequate to meet our
    liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at
    least the next 12 months. However, our future liquidity and
    capital requirements will depend on a number of factors,
    including expenses associated with product development and
    expansion and new business opportunities that are intended to
    further diversify our revenue stream. We may also acquire or
    invest in technologies, business ventures or products that are
    complementary to our business. In the event we require any
    additional financing, it will take the form of equity or debt
    financing. Any additional equity offerings may result in
    dilution to our stockholders. Any debt financings may involve
    restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of
    additional capital and other financial and operational matters
    related to our business.

We have two major operating subsidiaries, MarketAxess
    Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited. MarketAxess
    Corporation is a registered broker-dealer in the U.S. and
    MarketAxess Europe Limited is a registered alternative trading
    system in the U.K. As such, they are subject to minimum
    regulatory capital requirements imposed by their respective
    market regulators that are intended to ensure general financial
    soundness and liquidity based on certain minimum capital
    requirements. The U.S. and the U.K. regulations prohibit a
    registrant from repaying borrowings from its parent or
    affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to its parent or
    affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result
    in a significant reduction in its regulatory net capital
    position without prior notification to or approval from its
    principal regulator. The capital structures of our subsidiaries
    are designed to provide each with capital and liquidity
    consistent with its business and regulatory requirements. As of
    December 31, 2006, MarketAxess Corporation had net capital
    of $15.0 million, which was $14.0 million in excess of
    its required minimum net capital of $1.0 million.
    MarketAxess Europe Limited had financial resources, as defined
    by the FSA, of $14.9 million, which was $10.5 million
    in excess of its required financial resources of
    $4.4 million.

In June 2006, our U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation,
    commenced operating an anonymous matching service for its
    broker-dealer clients. MarketAxess Corporation executes trades
    on a riskless principal basis, which are cleared and settled by
    an independent clearing broker. The securities clearing
    agreement that MarketAxess Corporation maintains with the
    independent clearing broker commenced in December 2004. Under
    the securities clearing agreement, MarketAxess Corporation
    maintains a collateral deposit with the clearing broker in the
    form of cash or U.S. government securities. As of
    December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the
    collateral deposit included in Securities and cash provided as
    collateral on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
    was $0.5 million. MarketAxess Corporation is exposed to
    credit risk in the event a contra-party does not fulfill its
    obligation to complete a transaction. Pursuant to the terms of
    the securities clearing agreement between MarketAxess
    Corporation and the independent clearing broker, the clearing
    broker has the right to charge MarketAxess Corporation for
    losses resulting from a counterparty’s failure to fulfill
    its contractual obligations. The losses are not capped at a
    maximum amount and apply to all trades executed through the
    clearing broker. At December 31, 2006, MarketAxess
    Corporation recorded no contingent liabilities with regard to
    this right. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into
    contracts that contain a variety of representations, warranties
    and general indemnifications.



Our maximum exposure from any claims under these arrangements is
    unknown, as this would involve claims that have not yet
    occurred. However, based on past experience, we expect the risk
    of loss to be remote.

Effects
    of Inflation

Because the majority of our assets are liquid in nature, they
    are not significantly affected by inflation. However, the rate
    of inflation may affect our expenses, such as employee
    compensation, office leasing costs and communications expenses,
    which may not be readily recoverable in the prices of our
    services. To the extent inflation results in rising interest
    rates and has other adverse effects on the securities markets,
    it may adversely affect our financial position and results of
    operations.

Contractual
    Obligations and Commitments

The following table summarizes our contractual arrangements as
    of December 31, 2006.

Payments due by Period

Less than

More than

Total

1 year

1-3 years

3-5 years

5 years

(In thousands)

Operating leases

$

13,465

$

2,501

$

2,509

$

2,516

$

5,939

Foreign currency forward

17,381

17,381

—

—

—

$

30,846

$

19,882

$

2,509

$

2,516

$

5,939

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
    “Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments”
    (“SFAS 155”). SFAS 155 is an amendment of
    SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140. SFAS 155
    permits companies to elect, on a

deal-by-deal

basis, to apply a fair value remeasurement for any hybrid
    financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that
    otherwise would require bifurcation. SFAS 155 is effective
    for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the
    beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins
    after September 15, 2006. We do not expect SFAS 155 to
    have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,
    “Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets”
    (“SFAS 156”). SFAS 156 amends
    SFAS No. 140. SFAS 156 requires that all
    separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities
    be initially measured at fair value. For subsequent
    measurements, SFAS 156 permits companies to choose between
    an amortization method or a fair value measurement method for
    reporting purposes. SFAS 156 is effective as of the
    beginning of a company’s first fiscal year that begins
    after September 15, 2006. We do not expect SFAS 156 to
    have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,
    “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an
    Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”
    (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 applies to all tax
    positions accounted for under SFAS 109. A “tax
    position” includes current or future reductions in taxable
    income reported or expected to be reported on a tax return.
    FIN 48 supplements SFAS 109 by defining the confidence
    level that a tax position must meet in order to be recognized in
    the financial statements. The interpretation requires that the
    tax effects of a position be recognized only if it is
    “more-likely-than-not” (greater than 50% likelihood)
    to be sustained based solely on its technical merits as of the
    reporting date. In making this assessment, a company must assume
    that the taxing authorities will examine the position. We
    currently use a more stringent “probable” threshold
    for recognizing uncertain tax positions. FIN 48 is
    effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning
    after December 15, 2006. At adoption, companies must adjust
    their financial statements to reflect only those tax positions
    that are more-likely-than-not to be sustained as of the adoption
    date. The necessary adjustments, if any, should be recorded
    directly to the beginning balance of retained earnings in the
    period of adoption and reported as a change in accounting
    principle. We are currently evaluating the impact of the
    adoption of FIN 48 on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In September 2006, the SEC released Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 108, “Considering the Effects of
    Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in
    Current Year Financial Statements”
    (“SAB 108”). SAB 108



requires that public companies utilize a “dual
    approach” to assess the quantitative effects of financial
    misstatements. This dual approach includes both an income
    statement-focused assessment and a balance sheet-focused
    assessment. The guidance in SAB 108 must be applied to
    annual financial statements for fiscal years ending after
    November 15, 2006. Adoption of SAB 108 did not affect
    our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”).
    SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
    measuring fair value and requires enhanced disclosures about
    fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal
    years beginning after November 15, 2007. We do not expect
    SFAS 157 to have a material impact on our Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
    “Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159 permits
    companies to elect to measure eligible financial instruments,
    commitments and certain other arrangements at fair value at
    specified election dates with changes in fair value recognized
    in earnings at each subsequent reporting period. SFAS 159
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2007. We do not expect SFAS 159 to have a material impact
    on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse
    changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and
    foreign currency exchange rates.

Market
    Risk

The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky
    and volatile and is directly affected by many national and
    international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of
    these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and
    global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading
    volume. These events could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

As of December 31, 2006, we had a $49.0 million
    investment in Securities

available-for-sale.

Adverse movements, such as a 10% decrease in the securities
    underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the
    markets for these positions, could result in a substantial loss.
    In addition, principal gains and losses resulting from theses
    positions could on occasion have a disproportionate effect,
    positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of
    operations for any particular reporting period.

See Item 1A

. Risk Factors

, “Risks Related to
    Our Industry —

Economic, political and market
    factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services
    and harm our business, and our profitability could
    suffer

.”

Interest
    Rate Risk

Interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate
    changes with respect to the money market instruments,
    U.S. Treasury obligations and short-term fixed-income
    securities in which we invest. As of December 31, 2006, we
    invested in primarily federal agency issues and municipal
    securities of $49.0 million. We do not maintain an
    inventory of bonds that are traded on our platform.

Derivative
    Risk

Our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the
    foreign currency forward contract market. We use this market to
    mitigate our U.S. dollar versus Pound Sterling exposure
    that arises from the activities of our U.K. Subsidiaries. As of
    December 31, 2006, the notional value of our foreign
    currency forward contracts was $17.4 million. We do not
    speculate in any derivative instruments.



Credit
    Risk

In June 2006, we began executing riskless principal transactions
    between our broker-dealer clients through our subsidiary,
    MarketAxess Corporation. We act as an intermediary in these
    transactions by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and
    the seller in matching

back-to-back

trades, which are then settled through a third-party clearing
    organization. Settlement typically occurs within one to three
    trading days after the trade date. Cash settlement of the
    transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying
    instrument that was traded.

We are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading
    counterparty to our broker-dealer clients executing trades on
    the
    DealerAxess

®

platform. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe
    us money, securities or other assets will not perform their
    obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to
    us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or
    other reasons. Adverse movements in the prices of securities
    that are the subject of these transactions can increase our
    risk. Where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is
    prolonged, there may also be regulatory capital charges required
    to be taken by us. The policies and procedures we use to manage
    this credit risk are new and untested. There can be no assurance
    that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our
    exposure to credit risk.



Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data

MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

INDEX TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Management’s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting


Audited Consolidated Financial
    Statements

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated
    Statements of Financial Condition — As of
    December 31, 2006 and 2005


Consolidated
    Statements of Operations — For the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Consolidated
    Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity and
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) — For the years
    ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows — For the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements — As of
    December 31, 2006 and 2005 and for the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


The unaudited supplementary data regarding quarterly results
    of operations are incorporated by reference to the information
    set forth in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,”
    in the section captioned “Quarterly Results of
    Operations.”



MANAGEMENT’S
    REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management of MarketAxess Holdings Inc. is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting as defined in

Rules 13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
    reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
    transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;

(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the Company; and

(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
    of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect
    on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, management
    used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission in

Internal
    Control — Integrated Framework.

Based on our assessment and those criteria, management
    determined that the Company maintained effective internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.



Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MarketAxess Holdings Inc.:

We have completed integrated audits of MarketAxess Holdings
    Inc.’s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements and
    of its internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006, and an audit of its December 31,
    2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
    presented below.

Consolidated
    financial statements

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
    the financial position of MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and its
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results
    of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2006 in conformity
    with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
    States of America. These financial statements are the
    responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
    statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
    Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements
    includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
    amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
    the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
    presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
    basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for share-based compensation in 2006.

Internal
    control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in
    Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting appearing on page 74, that the Company maintained
    effective internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006 based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects,
    based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the
    Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006,
    based on criteria established in

Internal Control —
    Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s
    management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
    control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
    responsibility is to express opinions on management’s
    assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
    conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting
    in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
    require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
    assurance about whether effective internal control over
    financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An
    audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
    obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
    reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and
    evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
    control, and performing such other procedures as we consider
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
    provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made



only in accordance with authorizations of management and
    directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable
    assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/

PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 26, 2007



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

As of December 31,



(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)

ASSETS

Cash and cash equivalents

$

82,000

$

58,189

Securities and cash provided as
    collateral

3,798

3,799

Securities

available-for-sale

49,015

59,956

Accounts receivable, including
    receivables from related parties of $8,579 and $6,751,
    respectively, net of allowance of $752 and $438 as of
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively

17,429

14,796

Furniture, equipment and leasehold
    improvements, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization

4,304

4,643

Software development costs, net of
    amortization

6,610

6,199

Prepaid expenses and other assets

2,221

3,076

Deferred tax assets, net

38,901

39,804

Total assets

$

204,278

$

190,462

LIABILITIES AND
    STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Liabilities

Accrued employee compensation

$

12,622

$

11,848

Deferred revenue


1,317

Accounts payable, accrued
    expenses, and other liabilities, including payables to a related
    party of $110 and $88 as of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively

5,514

6,433

Total liabilities

18,993

19,598

Commitments and Contingencies
    (Note 11)

Stockholders’ equity

Preferred stock, $0.001 par
    value, 5,000,000 shares authorized and, 0 issued and
    outstanding as of December 31, 2006 and 2005

—

—

Common stock voting,
    $0.003 par value, 110,000,000 shares authorized as of
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, 29,409,537 shares issued
    as of December 31, 2006 and 25,305,951 shares issued
    and outstanding as of December 31, 2005



Common stock non voting,
    $0.003 par value, 10,000,000 authorized as of
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, 3,125,379 shares issued
    and outstanding as of December 31, 2006 and
    4,401,330 shares issued and outstanding as of
    December 31, 2005



Warrants, 2,379,396 issued and
    outstanding as of December 31, 2006 and

3,674,400 issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2005

11,658

17,693

Additional paid-in capital

265,030

249,122

Unearned compensation

—

(2,021

)

Receivable for common stock
    subscribed

(1,042

)

(1,042

)

Accumulated deficit

(87,074

)

(92,495

)

Accumulated other comprehensive
    loss

(733

)

(482

)

Treasury stock — Common
    stock voting, at cost, 190,500 shares as of
    December 31, 2006 and 0 shares as of December 31,

(2,653

)

—

Total stockholders’
    equity

185,285

170,864

Total liabilities and
    stockholders’ equity

$

204,278

$

190,462

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Revenues

Commissions

U.S. high-grade, including
    $23,701, $24,513 and $25,313 from related parties for the years
    ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively

$

47,752

$

45,615

$

45,465

European high-grade, including
    $6,630, $7,047 and $8,350 from related parties for the years
    ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively

15,368

14,078

15,142

Other, including $5,295, $5,027
    and $5,644 from related parties for the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively

8,310

7,225

7,565

Total commissions

71,430

66,918

68,172

Information and user access fees,
    including $1,177, $1,052 and $461 from related parties for the
    years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively

5,477

4,435

2,713

License fees


2,988

3,143

Investment income, including
    $1,007, $796 and $380 from related parties for the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively

4,595

3,160


Other, including $510, $607, and
    $515 from related parties for the years ended December 31,
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively


1,059


Total revenues

83,316

78,560

75,797

Expenses

Employee compensation and benefits

42,078

35,445

33,146

Depreciation and amortization

6,728

5,649

3,468

Technology and communications

7,704

7,401

6,402

Professional and consulting fees

8,072

9,355

4,908

Warrant-related expense

—

—

2,524

Marketing and advertising

1,769

2,581

2,530

Moneyline revenue share to related
    party

—

(50

)

1,240

General and administrative,
    including $64, $59 and $25 to related parties for the years
    ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively

8,361

6,618

4,263

Total expenses

74,712

66,999

58,481

Income before income taxes

8,604

11,561

17,316

Provision (benefit) for income
    taxes

3,183

3,419

(40,271

)

Net income

$

5,421

$

8,142

$

57,587

Net income per common share

Basic

$

0.18

$

0.29

$

6.76

Diluted

$

0.15

$

0.23

$

1.88

Weighted average shares used to
    compute net income per common share

Basic

30,563,437

28,156,505

7,097,682

Diluted

35,077,348

35,512,346

30,638,644

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND
    ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS)

Total

Treasury

Redeemable

Common

Receivable

Accumulated

Stock

Convertible

Convertible

Common

Stock

Additional

for Common

Other

Common

Total

Preferred

Preferred

Stock

Non

Paid-In

Unearned

Stock

Accumulated

Comprehensive

Stock

Stockholders ’

Stock

Stock

Voting

Voting

Warrants

Capital

Compensation

Subscribed

Deficit

(Loss)

Voting

Equity

(In thousands)

Balance at December 31, 2003

$

159,664

$


$


$

—

$

21,523

$

7,819

$

(13

)

$

(1,042

)

$

(148,585

)

$


$

—

$

(120,269

)

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

57,587

—

57,587

Cumulative translation adjustment
    and foreign currency exchange hedge, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(361

)

(361

)

Total comprehensive income

57,226

Issuance of common stock

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Accrued dividends on redeemable
    convertible preferred stock

9,639

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(9,639

)

—

—

(9,639

)

Additional paid-in capital, warrants

—

—

—

—

2,524

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,524

Employee stock based compensation

—

—

—

—

—

1,873

—

—

—

—

—

1,873

Compensation expense related to
    stock option issuance — Non- employees and Directors

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Earned Compensation

—

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—


Conversion of redeemable
    convertible preferred stock

(169,303

)

(2

)



—

169,249

—

—

—

—

—

169,303

Issuance of common stock in initial
    public offering, net of underwriting discounts

—

—


—

—

58,805

—

—

—

—

—

58,823

Direct costs of initial public
    offering

—

—

—

—

—

(4,883

)

—

—

—

—

—

(4,883

)

Balance at December 31, 2004

—

—



24,047

233,110

—

(1,042

)

(100,637

)

(342

)

—

155,218

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

8,142

—

—

8,142

Cumulative translation adjustment
    and foreign currency exchange hedge, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(46

)

—

(46

)

Unrealized gains (losses) on
    Securities-available-for-sale, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(94

)

—

(94

)

Total comprehensive income

8,002

Issuance of common stock related to
    stock options and restricted stock

—

—


—

—

7,768

(2,634

)

—

—

—

—

5,137

Employee stock based compensation

—

—

—

—

—

1,446

—

—

—

—

—

1,446

Compensation expense related to
    stock option issuance — Non-employees and Directors

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Earned Compensation

—

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—


Exercise of warrants

—

—


—

(6,354

)

6,350

—

—

—

—

—

—

Balance at December 31, 2005

—

—



17,693

249,122

(2,021

)

(1,042

)

(92,495

)

(482

)

—

170,864

Comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

5,421

—

—

5,421

Cumulative translation adjustment
    and foreign currency exchange hedge, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(327

)

—

(327

)

Unrealized gains (losses) on
    Securities-available-for-sale, net of tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—


—


Total comprehensive income

5,170

Reclassification of Unearned
    compensation related to implementation of SFAS 123R

—

—

—

—

—

(2,021

)

2,021

—

—

—

—

Conversion from non-voting to
    voting common stock

—

—


(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Employee stock based compensation

—

—


—

—

5,877

—

—

—

—

—

5,880

Compensation expense related to
    stock option issuance — Non-employees and Directors

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—

—


Issuance of common stock related to
    stock options and restricted stock

—

—


—

—

3,792

—

—

—

—

—

3,795

Excess tax benefit from stock based
    compensation

—

—

—

—

—

1,674

—

—

—

—

—

1,674

Exercise of warrants

—

—


—

(6,035

)

6,031

—

—

—

—

—

—

Purchase of treasury stock

(2,653

)

(2,653

)

Balance at December 31, 2006

$

—

$

—

$


$


$

11,658

$

265,030

$

—

$

(1,042

)

$

(87,074

)

$

(733

)

$

(2,653

)

$

185,285

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements .



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash flows from operating
    activities

Net income

$

5,421

$

8,142

$

57,587

Adjustments to reconcile net income
    to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

6,728

4,606

3,468

Warrant-related expense

—

—

2,524

Amortization of unearned
    compensation

—



Compensation expense related to
    employee stock options and restricted stock issuance

5,877

1,446

1,873

Issuance of stock options and
    restricted stock to non-employees




Deferred taxes


2,976

(40,351

)

Provision for bad debts




Changes in operating assets and
    liabilities:

(Increase) in accounts receivable,
    including increases of $1,828 $3,940 and $3,069 from related
    parties for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively

(3,294

)

(786

)

(5,582

)

(Increase) decrease in prepaid
    expenses and other assets


(70

)

(1,724

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued
    employee compensation



2,457

(Decrease) in deferred revenue

(460

)

(2,091

)

(654

)

Increase (decrease) in accounts
    payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, including
    increases (decreases) of $22, $(442) and $34 to related parties
    for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively

(919

)

1,213


Net cash provided by operating
    activities

17,101

16,908

20,733

Cash flows from investing
    activities

Short-term investments:

Proceeds from maturities

—

5,797

65,387

Purchases

—

—

(55,593

)

Securities

available-for-sale:

Proceeds from sales

91,127

57,274

—

Purchases

(80,110

)

(117,324

)

—

Securities held to maturity:

Proceeds from maturities

—

35,320

—

Purchases

—

(35,320

)

—

Securities and cash provided as
    collateral


—

(292

)

Purchases of furniture, equipment
    and leasehold improvements

(2,661

)

(1,386

)

(3,394

)

Capitalization of software
    development costs

(4,126

)

(3,395

)

(3,588

)

Net cash provided by (used in)
    investing activities

4,231

(59,034

)

2,520

Cash flows from financing
    activities

Proceeds from the issuance of
    restricted stock and exercise of stock options

3,797

2,709


Proceeds from initial public
    offering, net of underwriting discounts

—

—

58,822

Direct costs of initial public
    offering

—

—

(4,883

)

Excess tax benefits from
    share-based compensation

1,674

—

—

Purchase of treasury
    stock — common stock voting

(2,653

)

—

—

Net cash provided by financing
    activities

2,818

2,709

54,169

Effect of exchange rate changes
    on cash

(339

)

(46

)

(361

)

Cash and cash
    equivalents

Net increase (decrease) for the year

23,811

(39,463

)

77,061

Beginning of year

58,189

97,652

20,591

End of year

$

82,000

$

58,189

$

97,652

Supplemental cash flow
    information:

Cash paid during the
    year:

Income taxes paid

$


$


$


Non-cash activity:

Accrued and undeclared dividends on
    redeemable convertible preferred stock

$

—

$

—

$

9,639

Non-cash exercise of warrants and
    issuance of common stock

$

6,035

$

6,354

$

—

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.

Organization
    and Principal Business Activity

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (the “Company”) was
    incorporated in the State of Delaware on April 11, 2000.
    Through its subsidiaries, the Company operates an electronic
    trading platform for corporate bonds and certain other types of
    fixed-income securities, through which the Company’s active
    institutional investor clients can access the liquidity provided
    by its broker-dealer clients. The Company’s multi-dealer
    trading platform allows its institutional investor clients to
    simultaneously request competitive, executable bids or offers
    from multiple broker-dealers, and to execute trades with the
    broker-dealer of their choice. The Company offers its clients
    the ability to trade U.S. high-grade corporate bonds,
    European high-grade corporate bonds, credit default swaps,
    agencies, high yield and emerging markets bonds. The
    Company’s
    DealerAxess

®

trading service allows dealers to trade fixed-income securities
    with each other on its platform. The Company also provides data
    and analytical tools that help its clients make trading
    decisions and facilitates the trading process by electronically
    communicating order information between trading counterparties.
    The Company’s current participating dealers are: ABN AMRO,
    Banc of America Securities, Barclays PLC, Bear Stearns, BNP
    Paribas, Citigroup Global Markets, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank
    Securities, Dresdner Bank AG, DZ Bank AG, FTN Financial, Goldman
    Sachs, HSBC, ING Financial Markets, JPMorgan, Jefferies and
    Company, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, RBC
    Capital Markets, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander
    Investment Securities, SG Corporate & Investment
    Banking, UBS and Wachovia Securities.

The Company’s stockholder broker-dealer clients as of
    January 1, 2006 were ABN Amro, Banc of America Securities,
    Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank,
    JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers and UBS. All of these broker-dealer
    clients constitute related parties of the Company (together, the
    “Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients”). Moneyline
    Telerate (“Moneyline”) which provided certain software
    development services to the Company and had a revenue-sharing
    agreement with the Company, is considered a related party for
    the fiscal years 2005 and 2004. In February 2005, the Company
    ceased using the technology platform that was covered under the
    Moneyline revenue-sharing agreement. See Note 8,
    “Related Parties.”

The Company’s U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess
    Corporation, is a registered broker-dealer with the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
    and is a member of the National Association of Securities
    Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”). The Company also has three
    international subsidiaries: MarketAxess Europe Limited
    (“MarketAxess Europe”), which is registered as an
    Alternative Trading System dealer with the Financial Services
    Authority (“FSA”) in the United Kingdom
    (“U.K.”); MarketAxess Leasing Limited (collectively
    with MarketAxess Europe, the “U.K. Subsidiaries”); and
    MarketAxess Canada Limited, a Canadian subsidiary that the
    Company incorporated in May 2003. MarketAxess Canada Limited has
    applied for registration as an Alternative Trading System dealer
    under the Securities Act of Ontario and is in the process of
    seeking approval for membership with the Investment Dealers
    Association of Canada.

On November 4, 2004, the Company completed the initial
    public offering of its common stock. Specifically,
    5,750,000 shares of common stock, including an aggregate of
    750,000 shares of common stock covered by an over-allotment
    option granted by the Company to the underwriters, were sold at
    a price to the public of $11.00 per share. The aggregate
    proceeds to the Company from the offering were
    $63.2 million before deducting $4.4 million in
    underwriting discounts and commissions and an estimated
    $4.9 million in other expenses incurred in connection with
    the offering. Additionally, prior to the closing of the initial
    public offering, all outstanding shares of redeemable
    convertible preferred stock and convertible preferred stock were
    converted into 14,484,493 shares of common stock and
    4,266,310 shares of non-voting common stock.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2.

Significant
    Accounting Policies

Basis
    of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    the Company and its subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation,
    MarketAxess Europe, MarketAxess Leasing Limited and MarketAxess
    Canada Limited. All intercompany transactions and balances have
    been eliminated.

Foreign
    Currency Translation

Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
    translated using exchange rates at the end of the year; revenues
    and expenses are translated at average monthly rates. Gains and
    losses on foreign currency translation are included as a
    cumulative translation adjustment to Accumulated other
    comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of Financial
    Condition.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash maintained at U.S. and
    U.K. banks and in money market funds. The Company defines cash
    equivalents as short-term interest-bearing investments with
    maturities at the time of purchase of three months or less.

Securities
    and Cash Provided as Collateral

Securities provided as collateral consist of
    U.S. government obligations and cash. Collectively, these
    amounts are used as collateral for standby letters of credit, as
    collateral for foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the
    Company’s net investments in the U.K. Subsidiaries and as
    collateral for a broker-dealer clearance account.

Securities

Available-for-Sale

The Company has classified certain of its marketable securities
    as

Available-for-sale

securities. Unrealized marketable securities gains and losses
    are reflected as a net amount under the caption of Accumulated
    other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Statements of
    Financial Condition. Realized gains and losses are recorded
    within the Consolidated Statements of Operations under the
    caption General and administrative expense. For the purpose of
    computing realized gains and losses, cost is determined on a
    specific identification basis.

The Company assesses whether an

other-than-temporary

impairment loss on the investments has occurred due to declines
    in fair value or other market conditions. Declines in fair
    values that are considered other than temporary are recorded as
    charges in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts

The Company continually monitors collections and payments from
    its customers and maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts.
    The allowance for doubtful accounts is based upon the historical
    collection experience and specific collection issues that have
    been identified. Additions to the allowance for doubtful
    accounts are charged to Bad debt expense, which is included in
    General and administrative expense in the Company’s
    Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The allowance for doubtful accounts was $0.8 million,
    $0.4 million and $0.3 million as of December 31,
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The provision for bad debts
    was $0.7 million, $0.4 million and $0.3 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. Write-offs and other charges against the allowance
    for doubtful accounts were $0.3 million, $0.2 million
    and $0 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Depreciation
    and Amortization

Fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
    The Company uses the straight-line method of depreciation over
    three years. Leasehold improvements are stated at cost and are
    amortized using the straight-line method over the lesser of the
    life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease.

Software
    Development Costs

In accordance with Statement of Position

No. 98-1,

“Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or
    Obtained for Internal Use,” the Company capitalizes certain
    costs associated with the development of internal use software
    at the point at which the conceptual formulation, design and
    testing of possible software project alternatives have been
    completed. The Company capitalizes employee compensation and
    related benefits and third party consulting costs incurred
    during the preliminary software project stage. Once the product
    is ready for its intended use, such costs are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over three years. The Company reviews the
    amounts capitalized for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the assets
    may not be recoverable.

Foreign
    Currency Forward Contracts

The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
    Hedging Activities” (“SFAS 133”), and enters
    into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its net
    investment in the U.K. Subsidiaries. Accordingly, gains and
    losses on these transactions are deferred and included in
    Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated
    Statements of Financial Condition.

Revenue
    Recognition

The majority of the Company’s revenues are derived from
    commissions for trades executed on its platform that are billed
    to its broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. Commissions are
    generally calculated as a percentage of the notional dollar
    volume of bonds traded on the platform and vary based on the
    type and maturity of the bond traded. Under the Company’s
    transaction fee plans, bonds that are more actively traded or
    that have shorter maturities are generally charged lower
    commissions, while bonds that are less actively traded or that
    have longer maturities generally command higher commissions.

The Company also derives revenues from information and user
    access fees, license fees, investment income and other income.

The Company enters into agreements with its broker-dealer
    clients pursuant to which the Company provides access to its
    platform through a non-exclusive and non-transferable license.
    Broker-dealer clients, other than those that previously made
    equity investments in the Company, pay an initial license fee,
    which is typically due and payable upon execution of the
    broker-dealer agreement. The initial license fee varies by
    agreement and at a minimum is intended to cover the initial

set-up

costs
    incurred to enable a broker-dealer to begin using the
    Company’s electronic trading platform. Revenue is
    recognized in the first three months of the agreement in the
    estimated amount of the

set-up

costs
    incurred (50% in the first month, 40% in the second month and
    10% in the third month), and the remaining amount is deferred
    and recognized ratably over the initial term of the agreement,
    which is generally three years. The Company anticipates that
    license fees will be a less material source of revenues on a
    going-forward basis.

Stock-Based
    Compensation for Employees

Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for
    stock-based employee compensation plans in accordance with
    Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
    “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”
    (“APB 25”), as permitted by Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting
    for Stock-Based Compensation”



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(“SFAS 123”). In accordance with APB 25, the
    Company accounted for stock-based awards to employees and
    directors using the intrinsic value method.

On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 123 (revised
    2004), “Share-Based Payment”
    (“SFAS 123R”), which is a revision of
    SFAS 123.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS 123R, which requires the measurement and recognition
    of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made
    to employees based on estimated fair values. In accordance with
    SFAS 123R, non-employee members of the Board of Directors
    are treated as employees. SFAS 123R supersedes the
    Company’s previous accounting under APB 25 for periods
    beginning in fiscal 2006. In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff
    Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (“SAB 107”)
    relating to SFAS 123R. The Company has applied the
    provisions of SAB 107 in its adoption of SFAS 123R.

The Company adopted SFAS 123R using the modified
    prospective transition method, which requires the application of
    the accounting standard as of January 1, 2006. In
    accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the
    Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for prior
    periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include,
    the impact of SFAS 123R.

SFAS 123R requires companies to estimate the fair value of
    share-based payment awards on the date of grant. Stock-based
    compensation expense recognized in the Company’s
    Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 included compensation expense for
    share-based payment awards granted prior to, but not yet vested,
    as of December 31, 2005 based on the grant date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of
    SFAS 123 and compensation expense for the share-based
    payment awards granted subsequent to December 31, 2005
    based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with
    the provisions of SFAS 123R. As stock-based compensation
    expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 is based on awards
    ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for estimated
    forfeitures. SFAS 123R requires forfeitures to be estimated
    at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent
    periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. In
    the Company’s pro forma information required under
    SFAS 123 for the periods prior to fiscal 2006, the Company
    accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.

Had compensation expense for employee stock-based awards been
    determined based on the fair value at grant date consistent with
    SFAS No. 123R, the Company’s Net income for 2005
    and 2004 would have been as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Net income

As reported

$

8,142

$

57,587

Compensation expense, after
    related tax effects

1,366

1,965

Pro forma

$

6,776

$

55,622

Basic net income per common
    share — as reported

$

0.29

$

6.76

Diluted net income per common
    share — as reported

$

0.23

$

1.88

Basic net income per common
    share — pro forma

$

0.24

$

6.48

Diluted net income per common
    share — pro forma

$

0.19

$

1.82



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table presents the assumptions used for the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the per share
    weighted- average fair value for options granted during the
    years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004:

Year Ended December 31,



Weighted-Average Expected Life
    (years)

3.00

3.00

Weighted-Average Risk-Free
    Interest Rate

3.63

%

2.74

%

Weighted-Average Expected
    Volatility

20.72

%

28.25

%

On November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position

No. FAS 123R-3,

“Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects
    of Share-Based Payment Awards.” The alternative transition
    method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning
    balance of the additional paid-in capital pool (“APIC
    pool”) related to the tax effects of employee stock-based
    compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC
    pool and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of awards that
    are outstanding upon the adoption of SFAS 123R. The Company
    has used the long-method calculation, pursuant to
    SFAS 123R, to determine its APIC pool as of
    December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2006, the
    Company has calculated the APIC pool to be $2.5 million.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company presented
    all tax benefits resulting from the exercise of stock options as
    operating cash flows in the Consolidated Statements of Cash
    Flows. SFAS 123R requires the cash flows resulting from tax
    deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for
    those options (excess tax benefits) to be classified as
    financing cash flows. The excess tax benefit for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 of $1.7 million, classified as a
    financing cash flow, would have been classified as an operating
    cash flow if the Company had not adopted SFAS 123R.

Income
    Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability
    method in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
    “Accounting for Income Taxes”
    (“SFAS 109”). Deferred income taxes reflect the
    net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial
    reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are
    measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in
    effect when such differences are expected to reverse. The effect
    on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates
    is recognized in income in the period that includes the
    enactment date. A valuation allowance is recognized against
    deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such
    assets will not be realized in future years.

Earnings
    Per Share

SFAS No. 128, “Earnings Per Share,” requires
    the presentation of basic and diluted earnings per share
    (“EPS”) in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
    Basic EPS is computed by dividing the net income attributable to
    common stock by the weighted-average number of shares of common
    stock outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS is computed using
    the same method as basic EPS, but in the denominator, shares of
    common stock outstanding reflect the potential dilution that
    could occur if convertible securities or other contracts to
    issue common stock were converted into or exercised for common
    stock.

Use of
    Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
    the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
    differ from those estimates.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155,
    “Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments”
    (“SFAS 155”). SFAS 155 is an amendment of
    SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140. SFAS 155
    permits companies to elect, on a

deal-by-deal

basis, to apply a fair value remeasurement for any hybrid
    financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that
    otherwise would require bifurcation. SFAS 155 is effective
    for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the
    beginning of an entity’s first fiscal year that begins
    after September 15, 2006. The Company does not expect
    SFAS 155 to have a material impact on its Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156,
    “Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets”
    (“SFAS 156”). SFAS 156 amends
    SFAS No. 140. SFAS 156 requires that all
    separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities
    be initially measured at fair value. For subsequent
    measurements, SFAS 156 permits companies to choose between
    an amortization method or a fair value measurement method for
    reporting purposes. SFAS 156 is effective as of the
    beginning of a company’s first fiscal year that begins
    after September 15, 2006. The Company does not expect
    SFAS 156 to have a material impact on its Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48,
    “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an
    Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”
    (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 applies to all tax
    positions accounted for under SFAS 109. A “tax
    position” includes current or future reductions in taxable
    income reported or expected to be reported on a tax return.
    FIN 48 supplements SFAS 109 by defining the confidence
    level that a tax position must meet in order to be recognized in
    the financial statements. The interpretation requires that the
    tax effects of a position be recognized only if it is
    “more-likely-than-not” (greater than 50% likelihood)
    to be sustained based solely on its technical merits as of the
    reporting date. In making this assessment, a company must assume
    that the taxing authorities will examine the position. The
    Company currently uses a more stringent “probable”
    threshold for recognizing uncertain tax positions. FIN 48
    is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year
    beginning after December 15, 2006. At adoption, companies
    must adjust their financial statements to reflect only those tax
    positions that are more-likely-than-not to be sustained as of
    the adoption date. The necessary adjustments, if any, should be
    recorded directly to the beginning balance of retained earnings
    in the period of adoption and reported as a change in accounting
    principle. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the
    adoption of FIN 48 on its Consolidated Financial Statements.

In September 2006, the SEC released Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 108, “Considering the Effects of
    Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in
    Current Year Financial Statements”
    (“SAB 108”). SAB 108 requires that public
    companies utilize a “dual approach” to assess the
    quantitative effects of financial misstatements. This dual
    approach includes both an income statement-focused assessment
    and a balance sheet-focused assessment. The guidance in
    SAB 108 must be applied to annual financial statements for
    fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. Adoption of
    SAB 108 did not affect the Company’s Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”).
    SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
    measuring fair value and requires enhanced disclosures about
    fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal
    years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company does
    not expect SFAS 157 to have a material impact on its
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
    “Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159
    permits companies to elect to measure eligible financial
    instruments, commitments and certain other arrangements at fair
    value at specified election dates, with changes in fair value
    recognized in earnings at each subsequent reporting period.
    SFAS 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2007. The Company does not expect
    SFAS 159 to have a material impact on its Consolidated
    Financial Statements.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior
    years’ financial statements in order to conform to the
    current year presentation. Such reclassifications had no effect
    on previously reported Net income.

3.

Net
    Capital Requirements and Customer Protection
    Requirements

The Company’s U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess
    Corporation, maintains a registration as a U.S. securities
    broker-dealer. Pursuant to the Uniform Net Capital Rule under
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, MarketAxess Corporation is
    required to maintain minimum net capital, as defined, equal to
    the greater of $5 thousand or


/


%
    of aggregate indebtedness. A summary of MarketAxess
    Corporation’s capital requirements is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands)

Net capital

$

14,982

$

14,820

Required net capital

(1,048

)

(1,105

)

Excess net capital

$

13,934

$

13,715

Ratio of aggregate indebtedness to
    net capital

1.05 to 1

1.12 to 1

MarketAxess Corporation claims exemption from SEC

Rule 15c3-3,

as it does not hold customer securities or funds on account, as
    defined.

MarketAxess Europe is subject to certain financial resource
    requirements of the FSA. A summary of these financial resource
    requirements is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands)

Financial resources

$

14,882

$

10,907

Resource requirement

(4,372

)

(3,290

)

Excess financial resources

$

10,510

$

7,617

MarketAxess Corporation and MarketAxess Europe are subject to
    U.S. and U.K. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as
    an Alternative Trading System dealer, respectively, which
    prohibit repayment of borrowings from the Company or affiliates,
    paying cash dividends, making loans to the Company or affiliates
    or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a
    significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial
    resources, respectively, without prior notification to or
    approval from such regulated entity’s principal regulator.

4.

Securities

The following is a summary of the Company’s
    Securities-available-for-sale:

As of December 31, 2006

Gross

Gross

Estimated

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

(In thousands)

Federal agency issues and
    municipal securities

$

48,036

$


$

(37

)

$

48,004

Corporate Bonds

1,010


—

1,011

Total Securities-available-for-sale

$

49,046

$


$

(37

)

$

49,015



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2005

Gross

Gross

Estimated

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

(In thousands)

Federal agency issues and
    municipal securities

$

50,122

$

—

$

(119

)

$

50,003

Corporate Bonds

10,000

—

(47

)

9,953

Total Securities-available-for-sale

$

60,122

$

—

$

(166

)

$

59,956

The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of
    Securities

available-for-sale:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Less than one year

$

23,709

$

55,956

Due in 1-2 years

25,306

4,000

Total Securities-available-for-sale

$

49,015

$

59,956

Proceeds from the sales of Securities

available-for-sale

during 2006 and 2005 were $91.1 million and
    $57.3 million, respectively.

The fair value and continuous duration of gross unrealized
    losses on Securities

available-for-sale

with unrealized losses as of December 31, 2006 and 2005
    were as follows:

As of December 31, 2006

Less than Twelve Months

Twelve Months or More

Total

Estimated

Gross

Estimated

Gross

Estimated

Gross

Fair

Unrealized

Fair

Unrealized

Fair

Unrealized

Value

Losses

Value

Losses

Value

Losses

(In thousands)

Federal agency issues and municipal

$

22,696

$

(7

)

$

25,303

$

(30

)

$

47,999

$

(37

)

Corporate Bonds

1,010

—

—

—

1,010

—

Total Securities-available-for-sale

$

23,706

$

(7

)

$

25,303

$

(30

)

$

49,009

$

(37

)

As of December 31, 2005

Less than Twelve Months

Twelve Months or More

Total

Estimated

Gross

Estimated

Gross

Estimated

Gross

Fair

Unrealized

Fair

Unrealized

Fair

Unrealized

Value

Losses

Value

Losses

Value

Losses

(In thousands)

Federal agency issues and municipal

$

36,723

$

(62

)

$

13,280

$

(57

)

$

50,003

$

(119

)

Corporate Bonds

8,962

(34

)


(13

)

9,953

(47

)

Total Securities-available-for-sale

$

45,685

$

(96

)

$

14,271

$

(70

)

$

59,956

$

(166

)



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

5.

Furniture,
    Equipment and Leasehold Improvements

Furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements, net, are
    comprised of the following:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Computer software and related
    equipment

$

15,208

$

12,099

Office hardware

3,166

2,990

Furniture and fixtures

1,741

1,481

Accumulated depreciation

(16,488

)

(12,842

)

Total furniture and equipment, net

3,627

3,728

Leasehold improvements

2,221

2,207

Accumulated amortization

(1,544

)

(1,292

)

Total leasehold improvements, net



Total furniture, equipment and
    leasehold improvements, net

$

4,304

$

4,643

In January 2006, the Company changed its capitalization policy
    for furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements, lowering
    the threshold for capitalizing such purchases from $10 thousand
    to $2 thousand. The change was made to ensure consistency
    between the financial accounting and tax treatment. For the year
    ended December 31, 2006, the Company capitalized
    $0.3 million, which would have been expensed under the old
    capitalization policy.

6.

Software
    Development Costs

Software development costs, net, are comprised of the following:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Software development costs

$

13,977

$

9,848

Accumulated amortization

(7,367

)

(3,649

)

Total software development costs,
    net

$

6,610

$

6,199

During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    software development costs totaling $4.1 million,
    $3.4 million and $3.6 million, respectively, were
    capitalized. Non-capitalized software costs and routine
    maintenance costs are expensed as incurred and are included in
    Employee compensation and benefits, Technology and
    communications and Professional and consulting fees on the
    Consolidated Statements of Operations.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

7.

Income
    Taxes

The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the
    following:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Current:

Federal

$

—

$

—

$

(230

)

State and local

(75

)



Foreign




Total current provision




Deferred:

Federal

1,745

1,611

(27,517

)

State and local

1,138


(9,033

)

Foreign



(3,801

)

Total deferred provision (benefit)

3,169

3,127

(40,351

)

Provision (benefit) for income
    taxes

$

3,183

$

3,419

$

(40,271

)

Pre-tax income from U.S. operations was $7.5 million,
    $8.3 million and $12.4 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Pre-tax
    income from U.K. operations was $1.1 million,
    $3.3 million and $4.9 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The difference between the Company’s reported provision
    (benefit) for income taxes and the amount computed by
    multiplying pre-tax income taxes by the U.S. federal
    statutory rate of 35% is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

U.S. federal tax at statutory
    rate

$

3,011

$

4,047

$

5,887

State and local taxes —
    net of federal benefit



1,595

Foreign taxes


—

(269

)

Stock Compensation


Alternative minimum taxes

—

—


Net operating loss carryforwards

—

—

(1,514

)

Change in rate for deferred tax
    assets


1,754

—

Change in valuation allowance

(450

)

(2,918

)

(46,116

)

Tax credits

(498

)

(342

)

(2,086

)

Other, net

(501

)


1,934

Provision (benefit) for income
    taxes

$

3,183

$

3,419

$

(40,271

)



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following is a summary of the Company’s net deferred
    tax assets:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands)

Deferred tax assets

Net operating loss carryforwards

U.S.

$

39,696

$

41,355

Foreign

3,112

3,153

Depreciation



Stock compensation expense

2,874

1,030

Warrant expense

5,210

7,690

Restructuring charges

1,005

1,136

Tax credits

2,703

2,204

Other

1,359


Total deferred tax assets

56,606

57,949

Valuation allowance

(14,768

)

(15,218

)

Net deferred tax assets

41,838

42,731

Deferred tax liabilities

Capitalized software development
    costs

(2,937

)

(2,758

)

Other

—

(169

)

Deferred tax assets, net

$

38,901

$

39,804

A summary of the Company’s net operating loss and tax
    credit carryforwards and their expiration dates is as follows:

Tax Operating

Year of Expiration

Losses

Tax Credits

(In thousands)

U.S. net operating loss and
    tax credit carryforwards:

2012 to 2018

$

—

$



5,330



14,580



50,431

—


19,405


2023 to 2026

1,870

1,532

Total U.S. net operating loss
    and tax credit carryforwards

91,616

2,328

U.K. net operating loss and tax
    credit carryforwards:

No expiration date

9,958


Total U.K. net operating loss and
    tax credit carryforwards

9,958


Total

$

101,574

$

2,703

The ultimate realization of deferred income tax assets is
    dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during
    the periods in which the temporary differences become
    deductible. If it is not more likely than not



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

that some portion or all of the gross deferred income tax assets
    will be realized in future years, a valuation allowance is
    recorded.

In 2000 and 2001, MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and MarketAxess
    Corporation had an ownership change within the meaning of
    Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, net
    operating loss carryforwards existing at the date of the
    ownership change of $39.2 million are subject to
    significant limitations. The Company recorded a valuation
    allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is
    more likely than not to be realized. In addition, the
    Company’s net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards
    may be subject to additional annual limitations if there is a
    50% or greater change in the Company’s ownership, as
    determined over a rolling three-year period.

During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    the Company reduced the valuation allowance by
    $0.5 million, $2.9 million and $46.1 million,
    respectively, based on management’s current assessment of
    the factors impacting the valuation allowance previously
    recorded. Such factors included management’s expectation of
    continuing future profitable operations and judgment concerning
    future utilization of certain net operating losses that are
    subject to Section 382 limitations prior to their
    expiration. In addition, during 2005 the Company adjusted the
    income tax rate used for recording the deferred tax assets,
    resulting in a decrease in the deferred tax assets and an
    increase in tax expense of $1.7 million.

The rollforward of the valuation allowance is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands)

Valuation allowance at beginning
    of period

$

15,218

$

18,136

Increase (decrease) to valuation
    allowance attributable to:

Net operating losses

(330

)

(3,419

)

Temporary differences



Tax credits

(217

)


Valuation allowance at end of
    period

$

14,768

$

15,218

As discussed in Note 9, during the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, several related parties
    exercised a total of 2,620,802 warrants into
    2,620,098 shares of common stock through non-cash
    exercises, resulting in a benefit for federal income taxes
    purposes of $7.3 million, which when realized would result
    in an increase in Additional paid-in capital. Management
    believes that there is sufficient uncertainty with regard to the
    ultimate realization of this tax credit and therefore has not
    recognized the credit in the Consolidated Statements of
    Financial Condition as of December 31, 2006.

8.

Related
    Parties

The Company had the following balances and transactions with
    Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients and their affiliates:

As of December 31,



(In thousands)

Cash and cash equivalents

$

33,050

$

46,739

Accounts receivable

8,579

6,751

Accounts payable, accrued expenses
    and other liabilities





MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Commissions

$

35,626

$

36,588

$

39,307

Information and user access fees

1,177

1,052


Investment income

1,007



Other income




For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004
    investment advisory fees and bank fees paid to Stockholder
    Broker-Dealer Clients were $64 thousand, $59 thousand and $25
    thousand respectively, and are included in general and
    administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
    Operations.

Securities and cash provided as collateral include
    $3.3 million of U.S. government obligations as of
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, on deposit with a related party
    in its role as a custodian.

The Company had an agreement with Moneyline to assist in
    developing the Company’s U.S. high-grade corporate
    bond and European electronic trading platforms. In consideration
    of Moneyline’s provision of services under the agreement,
    the Company paid Moneyline a variable monthly fee. In addition,
    Moneyline was entitled to share in a portion of the
    Company’s quarterly net revenues, as defined in the
    agreement. In May 2004, the Company ceased using the software
    relating to the legacy U.S. high-grade trading platform
    developed with the assistance of Moneyline and began using
    internally-developed software and in February 2005 also migrated
    the European high-grade trading platform to the internally
    developed software. The agreement terminated in February 2005.

As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had loans
    outstanding to the Chief Executive Officer of $1.4 million
    and $1.3 million, respectively, which are described in more
    detail in Footnote 9, “Stockholders’
    Equity.” The accrued interest on the loans is recorded in
    Accounts receivable and the principal amount is recorded as a
    Receivable for common stock subscribed in Stockholders’
    equity on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.

9.

Stockholders’
    Equity

Common
    Stock

As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had
    110,000,000 authorized shares of voting common stock and
    10,000,000 authorized shares of non-voting common stock. Voting
    common stock entitles the holder to one vote per share of common
    stock held.

Non-voting common stock is convertible on a

one-for-one

basis into shares of voting common stock at any time subject to
    a limitation on conversion to the extent such conversion would
    result in a stockholder, together with its affiliates, owning
    more than 9.99% of the outstanding shares of common stock.
    During 2006, a total of 1,275,951 shares of non-voting
    common stock were converted to voting common stock.

On March 30, 2004, the Company’s Board of Directors
    authorized, and on November 1, 2004 the Company
    effectuated, a

one-for-three

reverse stock split of shares of voting common stock and
    non-voting common stock to be effective prior to the closing of
    the Company’s initial public offering. All references in
    these financial statements to the number of shares of voting
    common stock and non-voting common stock of the Company,
    securities convertible or exercisable therefore and per share
    amounts have been restated for all periods presented to reflect
    the effect of the common stock reverse stock split.

On October 26, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company
    authorized a share repurchase program for up to
    $40.0 million of the Company’s common stock. The
    Company intends to repurchase the shares in the open market or
    through privately negotiated transactions, at times and prices
    considered appropriate by the Company. Shares



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

repurchased under the program will be held in treasury for
    future use. During December 2006, 190,500 shares were
    repurchased at a cost of $2.7 million.

Common
    Stock Subscribed

In 2001, the Company awarded 289,581 shares to the
    Company’s Chief Executive Officer at $3.60 per share,
    which vested over a three-year period. The common stock
    subscribed was issued in 2001 in exchange for eleven-year
    promissory notes that bear interest at the applicable federal
    rate and are collateralized by the subscribed shares.

Warrants

In April 2000, the Board of Directors initiated a warrant
    program that commenced on February 1, 2001. Under this
    program, the Company reserved for issuance 5,000,002 shares
    of common stock. The warrants were issued to holders of
    Series A, C, E and I redeemable convertible preferred stock
    (the “Warrant Holders”). The Warrant Holders are
    entitled to purchase shares of common stock from the Company at
    an exercise price of $.003 through and including
    November 30, 2008.

The warrants were issued to the Warrant Holders at the time that
    they made an equity investment in the Company. The warrant
    program had two distinct pieces, a U.S. and a European portion,
    under which the aggregate number of shares underlying the
    warrant to be allocated in each three-month period was fixed.
    Allocations under this program commenced on May 1, 2001 for
    the U.S. portion and on June 1, 2002 for the European
    portion and were based on each broker-dealer client’s
    respective commissions as a percentage of the total commissions
    from the six participating Warrant Holders, calculated on a
    quarterly basis. The final share allocations under the warrant
    program occurred on March 1, 2004.

Shares allocated under the warrant program were expensed on a
    quarterly basis at fair market value in accordance with
    SFAS 123. The Company determined fair market value of the
    shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant using the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model. To assist management in
    determining fair market value of the shares issuable,
    independent valuations of the Company’s common stock were
    undertaken as of December 31, 2001, December 31, 2002,
    September 30, 2003 and December 31, 2003. A number of
    factors were considered in the valuations, including the
    Company’s current financial condition, its future earning
    capacity, the market price of publicly quoted corporations in
    similar lines of business and the values of prior sales of
    preferred stock.

In March 2001, in connection with the acquisition of Trading
    Edge, the Company also assumed warrants issued by Trading Edge,
    which were converted into warrants exercisable to purchase
    7,967 shares of the Company’s common stock. During the
    year ended December 31, 2005, these warrants expired
    unexercised.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, two Stockholder
    Broker-Dealer Clients converted 1,325,602 warrants into
    1,325,249 shares of common stock through non-cash
    exercises. During the year ended December 31, 2006, two
    Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients converted 1,295,004 warrants
    into 1,294,849 shares of common stock through non-cash
    exercises.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company’s warrant activity is summarized as follows:

Weighted-Average

Shares

Exercise Price

Outstanding at December 31,

4,778,800

$

0.222

Allocated

229,169

$

0.003

Outstanding at December 31,

5,007,969

$

0.211

Cancelled

(7,967

)

$

130.650

Exercised

(1,325,602

)

$

0.003

Outstanding at December 31,

3,674,400

$

0.003

Exercised

(1,295,004

)

$

0.003

Outstanding at December 31,

2,379,396

$

0.003

For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company accrued
    for 152,778 shares at a weighted average fair market value
    of $16.52. Fair market value was computed using a
    weighted-average expected life of 4.38 years, risk-free
    interest rate of 2.18% and expected volatility of 34.43%.

10.

Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans

The Company’s 2000 and 2001 Stock Incentive Plans (the
    “2000 and 2001 Plans”) provide for the grant of
    options or restricted stock as incentives and rewards to
    encourage employees, consultants and non-employee directors to
    participate in the long-term success of the Company. The 2000
    and 2001 Plans provide for the granting of shares of the
    Company’s common stock at fair value or at a value other
    than fair value (determined by the Board of Directors or a
    committee thereof) on the date the option is granted. Generally,
    option grants have provided for vesting over a three-year
    period, at a rate of one-third after one year from the grant
    date and with the remaining two-thirds vesting on an equal
    monthly basis over the remaining two-year period. Options expire
    ten years from the date of grant. On November 2, 2004, most
    of the shares of the Company’s common stock available for
    grant under the 2000 and 2001 Plans were transferred to the
    Company’s 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2004
    Plan”) and no shares are available for grant under the 2000
    and 2001 Plans other than shares that become available as a
    result of expired, terminated or cancelled awards, or shares
    that are delivered or exchanged by participants as payment upon
    the exercise of awards.

In 2004, the Company adopted the 2004 Plan to enable it to offer
    certain of the Company’s key employees, consultants and
    non-employee directors equity-based awards in the Company. The
    terms of the 2004 Plan are substantially the same as those in
    the 2000 and 2001 Plans, except as follows: the maximum
    aggregate number of shares available for grant is different; the
    Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the
    “Committee”) has flexibility to grant stock
    appreciation rights, performance shares, performance units or
    other stock-based awards (in addition to stock options and
    restricted stock); and rights of first refusal and repurchase
    rights do not apply to awards granted under the 2004 Plan. The
    Committee is appointed by the Board of Directors, consists of at
    least two non-employee directors and will administer the 2004
    Plan. With respect to the application of the 2004 Plan to
    non-employee directors, the entire Board of Directors will act
    as the Committee. The 2004 Plan permits the Company to grant
    stock options (including incentive stock options to employees),
    stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance shares,
    performance units and other stock-based awards (including,
    without limitation, restricted stock units) to certain key
    employees, consultants and non-employee directors, as determined
    by the Committee in its sole discretion. Through April 27,
    2006, up to 2,400,000 shares of the Company’s common
    stock, plus 684,802 shares of common stock transferred to
    the 2004 Plan from the 2000 and 2001 Plans on November 2,
    2004, could have been issued under the 2004 Plan (subject to
    adjustment to reflect certain transactions and events specified
    in the 2004 Plan). On June 7, 2006, stockholder approval
    was obtained for an amendment and restatement of the 2004 Plan
    to, among other things, increase the number of shares authorized
    for issuance under the 2004 Plan from 3,084,802 to



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

9,754,802 shares. The Board had previously approved the
    amended and restated 2004 Plan effective April 28, 2006,
    subject to stockholder approval.

The 2004 Plan provides the Committee with authority and
    flexibility to determine the terms and conditions of the awards
    at the time of grant. The 2004 Plan provides the Committee the
    flexibility to grant awards that are not subject to the
    deduction limits under Section 162(m) of the Internal
    Revenue Code.

Total stock-based compensation expense for the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Employee:

Stock options

$

3,737

$

1,446

$

1,873

Restricted stock

2,140



5,877

2,059

1,886

Non-employee directors and
    consultants:

Stock options




Restricted stock



—




Total stock — based
    compensation

$

6,432

$

2,507

$

1,903

As discussed in Note 2, the Company adopted SFAS 123R
    on January 1, 2006. The incremental stock-based
    compensation expense in 2006 related to the adoption of
    SFAS 123R was $3.2 million.

As a result of adopting SFAS 123R, the Company’s Net
    income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was
    $1.8 million less than if it had continued to account for
    stock-based compensation under APB 25. Basic EPS for the
    year ended December 31, 2006 would have been $0.24 if the
    Company had not adopted SFAS 123R, compared to reported
    basic EPS for the year of $0.18. Diluted EPS for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 would have been $0.21 if the Company had
    not adopted SFAS 123R, compared to reported diluted EPS for
    the year of $0.15.

The Company records stock-based compensation expense for
    employees in Employee compensation and benefits and for
    non-employee directors and consultants in General and
    administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
    Operations.

During the third quarter of 2006, the Company identified a
    difference in U.S. and U.K. accounting treatment for taxes
    ultimately payable upon the exercise of stock options and
    vesting of restricted stock for grants to U.K. employees. This
    difference in accounting was corrected through a reversal of the
    reserve balance of $0.2 million during the year ended
    December 31, 2006.

Stock
    Options

The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of
    grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton closed-form model
    (“Black-Scholes”). The Company believes that the use
    of the Black-Scholes model meets the fair value measurement
    objectives of SFAS 123R and reflects all substantive
    characteristics of the instruments being valued. The
    determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the
    date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the
    Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a
    number of highly complex and subjective variables. These
    variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock
    price volatility over the term of the awards, the risk-free
    interest rate and the expected term. Expected volatilities are
    based on historical volatility of the Company’s stock and a
    peer group. The risk-free interest rate is based on
    U.S. Treasury securities with a maturity



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

value approximating the expected term of the option. The
    expected term represents the period of time that options granted
    are expected to be outstanding based on actual and projected
    employee stock option exercise behavior and was increased from
    four years to five years in May 2006.

The following table represents the assumptions used for the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the per share
    weighted-average fair value for options granted for the year
    ended December 31, 2006:


Weighted-Average Expected Life
    (years)

4.62

Weighted-Average Risk-Free
    Interest Rate

4.68

%

Weighted-Average Expected
    Volatility

41.75

%

Weighted-Average Fair Value per
    Option Granted

$

4.45

The following table reports stock option activity during the
    years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 and the
    intrinsic value as of December 31, 2006:

Remaining

Number of

Weighted-Average

Contractual

Shares

Exercise Price

Term

Intrinsic Value

(In thousands)

Outstanding at December 31,

4,119,903

$

2.91

Granted

1,077,454

$

13.86

Canceled

(209,948

)

$

6.38

Exercised

(79,827

)

$

2.89

Outstanding at December 31,

4,907,582

$

5.17

Granted

1,400,750

$

13.70

Canceled

(211,902

)

$

13.04

Exercised

(927,623

)

$

2.92

Outstanding at December 31,

5,168,807

$

7.56

Granted

2,297,150

$

10.87

Canceled

(962,481

)

$

10.98

Exercised

(768,116

)

$

4.94

$

5,543

Outstanding at December 31,

5,735,360

$

8.66

7.6

$

29,653

Exercisable at December 31,

3,433,158

$

6.93

6.4

$

23,919

The intrinsic value is the amount by which the closing price of
    the Company’s common stock on December 29, 2006 of
    $13.57 or the price on the day of exercise exceeds the exercise
    price of the stock options multiplied by the number of shares.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes information regarding the stock
    options granted:

As of December 31, 2006

Options Outstanding

Weighted-

Options Exercisable

Average

Weighted-

Weighted-

Remaining

Average

Average

Contractual

Exercise

Number

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Outstanding

Life

Price

Exercisable

Price

$2.10-$5.00

2,133,166

5.7

$

2.83

2,133,166

$

2.83

$5.01-$10.00

212,742

8.6

$

9.46

89,796

$

8.97

$10.01-$15.00

2,810,788

8.9

$

11.55

812,296

$

13.05

$15.01-$19.60

578,664

7.9

$

15.87

397,900

$

15.95

As of December 31, 2006, there was $8.0 million of
    total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock
    options granted under the 2000, 2001 and 2004 Plans. That cost
    is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
    2.0 years.

Restricted
    Stock

Restricted stock granted under the 2004 Plan generally vests
    over a period of three years. Certain grants vest after five
    years, but contain provisions that allow for accelerated vesting
    over a shorter term if defined performance criteria are met.
    Compensation expense is measured at the grant date and
    recognized ratably over the vesting period. The Company
    considers the likelihood of meeting the performance criteria in
    determining the amount to expense on a periodic basis.

The following table reports restricted stock activity during the
    years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006:

Weighted-Average

Number of

Grant Date Fair

Restricted Shares

Value

Outstanding at January 1, 2005

—

Granted

215,000

Canceled

(8,500

)

Vested

(17,500

)

Outstanding at December 31,

189,000

$

14.86

Granted

869,000

Canceled

(102,497

)

Vested

(74,909

)

Outstanding at December 31,

880,594

$

12.29

As of December 31, 2006, there was $8.3 million of
    total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested
    restricted stock granted under the 2004 Plan. That cost is
    expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
    2.4 years.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

11.

Commitments
    and Contingencies

The Company leases office space and equipment under
    non-cancelable lease agreements expiring at various dates
    through 2015. These leases are subject to escalation based on
    certain costs incurred by the landlord. Minimum rental
    commitments under such leases, net of sublease income, are as
    follows:

Year Ended December 31,

Minimum Rentals

(In thousands)


$

2,501


2,509


2,516


1,375



2012 and thereafter

3,578

The rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2006,
    2005 and 2004 was $2.7 million, $2.0 million and
    $1.8 million, respectively, which is included in General
    and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
    Operations. Rental expense has been recorded based on the total
    minimum lease payments after giving effect to rent abatement and
    concessions, which are being amortized on a straight-line basis
    over the life of the lease, and sublease income.

The Company has entered into a sublease agreement on one of its
    leased properties through the April 2011 lease termination date.
    Monthly sublease income is $0.1 million. A loss on the
    sublease was recorded in 2001. The sublease loss accrual at
    December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $0.9 million and
    $1.1 million, respectively.

Between May 2002 and May 2005, the Company subleased a portion
    of a leased space in London. The sublessee exercised its early
    termination option as provided in the agreement and paid
    MarketAxess Europe an early termination fee of $0.2 million
    in May 2005. MarketAxess Europe now occupies the space.

The Company is contingently obligated for standby letters of
    credit that were issued to landlords for office space. The
    Company uses a U.S. government obligation as collateral for
    these standby letters of credit. This collateral is included
    with Securities and cash provided as collateral on the
    Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and had a fair
    market value as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 of
    $3.3 million.

In June 2006, MarketAxess Corporation commenced operating an
    anonymous matching service for its broker-dealer clients.
    MarketAxess Corporation executes trades on a riskless principal
    basis, which are cleared and settled by an independent clearing
    broker. The securities clearing agreement that MarketAxess
    Corporation maintains with the independent clearing broker
    commenced in December 2004. Under the securities clearing
    agreement, MarketAxess Corporation maintains a collateral
    deposit with the clearing broker in the form of cash or
    U.S. government securities. As of December 31, 2006
    and 2005, the collateral deposit included in Securities and cash
    provided as collateral on the Consolidated Statements of
    Financial Condition was $0.5 million. MarketAxess
    Corporation is exposed to credit risk in the event a
    contra-party does not fulfill its obligation to complete a
    transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the securities clearing
    agreement between MarketAxess Corporation and the independent
    clearing broker, the clearing broker has the right to charge
    MarketAxess Corporation for losses resulting from a
    counterparty’s failure to fulfill its contractual
    obligations. The losses are not capped at a maximum amount and
    apply to all trades executed through the clearing broker. At
    December 31, 2006, MarketAxess Corporation recorded no
    contingent liabilities with regard to this right.

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into
    contracts that contain a variety of representations, warranties
    and general indemnifications. The Company’s maximum
    exposure under these arrangements is unknown, as this would
    involve future claims that may be made against the Company that
    have not yet occurred. However, based on experience, the Company
    expects the risk of loss to be remote.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company incurred
    severance payments related to terminated employees totaling
    $1.7 million. The severance payments were recorded in
    Employee compensation and benefits on the Consolidated
    Statements of Operations. As of December 31, 2006,
    $1.0 million remained unpaid and was recorded in Accrued
    employee compensation on the Consolidated Statements of
    Financial Condition. The Company anticipates that all accrued
    but unpaid amounts will be disbursed in 2007.

In January 2007, two former employees of the Company commenced
    arbitration proceedings before the National Association of
    Securities Dealers (“NASD”) against the Company
    arising out of the expiration of certain vested and unvested
    stock options and unvested restricted shares issued to them. The
    claims made by these two former employees total
    $4.5 million plus interest.

One former employee has alleged that the Company wrongfully
    prevented him from exercising his vested options when he sought
    to do so and that the Company wrongfully claimed that such
    options had expired on the previous day.

The other former employee has alleged that the Company
    wrongfully failed to accelerate the vesting of his then unvested
    options and restricted shares upon his termination and to waive
    the

90-day

time period within which he was required to exercise his vested
    options. This former employee also alleges that he is entitled
    to a declaration that certain provisions in the Company’s
    2004 Stock Incentive Plan are invalid and unenforceable under
    applicable law. He further alleges that he is entitled to a
    bonus for the approximately five months that he worked for the
    Company during 2006.

The Company believes that both cases are without merit and
    intends to vigorously defend them. The Company is required to
    answer, move or otherwise respond to both arbitration claims
    during March 2007. Based on currently available
    information, management believes that the likelihood of a
    material loss is not probable. Accordingly, no amounts have been
    provided in the accompanying financial statements. However,
    arbitration is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable
    rulings could occur.

12.

Segment
    Information

The Company’s operations as an electronic multi-dealer
    platform for the trading of fixed-income securities constitute a
    single business segment pursuant to SFAS No. 131,
    “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
    Information.” Because of the highly integrated nature of
    the financial markets in which the Company competes and the
    integration of the Company’s worldwide business activities,
    the Company believes that results by geographic region or client
    sector are not necessarily meaningful in understanding its
    business.



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.

Earnings
    Per Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Basic earnings per share:

Net income

$

5,421

$

8,142

$

57,587

Less: preferred stock dividends

—

—

(9,639

)

Net income attributable to common
    stock

$

5,421

$

8,142

$

47,948

Weighted-average common shares
    outstanding:

Common stock — voting

26,764,640

23,755,175

6,400,805

Common stock — non-voting

3,798,797

4,401,330

696,877

Weighted-average common shares
    outstanding

30,563,437

28,156,505

7,097,682

Basic earnings per share

$

0.18

$

0.29

$

6.76

Diluted earnings per share:

Net income

$

5,421

$

8,142

$

57,587

Weighted-average common shares and
    common stock equivalents outstanding:

Weighted-average common shares
    outstanding

30,563,437

28,156,505

7,097,682

Effect of dilutive shares

Redeemable convertible preferred
    stock converted to common stock — voting

—

—

15,835,603

Warrants

3,026,800

4,762,321

4,571,541

Stock options

1,344,208

2,593,520

3,133,818

Restricted shares

142,903

—

—

35,077,348

35,512,346

30,638,644

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.15

$

0.23

$

1.88

The following table summarizes the number of stock options
    excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share
    because their effect would be antidilutive:

Year Ended December 31,




Number of antidilutive stock
    options

2,231,578

1,670,373

141,594

14.

Accounting
    for Foreign Currency Forward Contracts and Hedging
    Activities

The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts with
    a non-controlling stockholder to hedge its exposure to
    variability in foreign currency cash flows resulting from the
    net investments in its U.K. Subsidiaries. The Company assesses
    each foreign currency forward contract to ensure that it is
    highly effective at reducing the exposure being hedged. The
    Company designates each foreign currency forward contract as a
    hedge, assesses the risk management objective and strategy,
    including identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged
    item and the risk exposure and how effectiveness is to be
    assessed prospectively and retrospectively. These hedges are for
    a one-month or three-month period and are used to limit exposure
    to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Gains or



MARKETAXESS
    HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as
    hedges are included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) in
    the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’
    Equity.

A summary of the foreign currency forward contracts is as
    follows:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Notional value

$

17,419

$

13,632

$

8,311

Fair value of notional

17,381

13,538

8,333

15.

Retirement
    Savings Plan and Annual Performance Plan

The Company, through its U.S. and U.K. subsidiaries, offers its
    employees the opportunity to invest in defined contribution
    plans. For the years ending December 31, 2006, 2005 and
    2004, the subsidiaries contributed $0.3 million,
    $0.1 million and $0, respectively, to the plans.

The Company adopted the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Annual
    Performance Incentive Plan (the “2004 Bonus Plan”) for
    certain of the Company’s designated key executives to
    provide bonus awards to such individuals as an incentive to
    contribute to the Company’s profitability. The Compensation
    Committee (the “Committee”) or such other committee
    appointed by the Board of Directors will administer the 2004
    Bonus Plan, and this Committee will select key executives
    eligible to participate in the 2004 Bonus Plan each year.

16.

Customer
    Concentration

During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, no
    single broker-dealer client accounted for more than 10% of total
    revenue.



Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure

None

Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
    Procedures.

Our management, including the Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the
    effectiveness of our “disclosure controls and
    procedures,” as that term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(e)

and

Rule 15d-15(e)

promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of December 31,
    2006. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and
    Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls
    and procedures are effective to ensure that information required
    to be disclosed by MarketAxess in the reports that we file or
    submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized
    and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities
    and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and to ensure
    that information is accumulated and communicated to our
    management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
    regarding required disclosure.

(b)

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control
    Over Financial Reporting.

See Item 8 of this Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K.

(c)

Attestation Report of the Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm.

See Report of Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm included in Item 8 of this Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K.

(d)

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting.

There were no changes in our internal
    control over financial reporting (as defined in

Rule 13a-15(f)

and

Rule 15d-15(f)

under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended
    December 31, 2006 identified in connection with the
    evaluation thereof by our management, including the Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, that materially
    affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
    internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

Other
    Information

None



PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the sections entitled
    “Proposal 1 — Election of Directors”
    and “Executive Compensation — Section 16
    (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the
    Company’s definitive Proxy Statement (the “Proxy
    Statement”) for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
    held in the second quarter of 2007. The Company intends to file
    the Proxy Statement within 120 days after the end of its
    fiscal year (i.e., on or before April 30, 2007). The
    Company’s Code of Conduct applicable to directors and all
    employees, including senior financial officers, is available on
    the Company’s website at www.marketaxess.com. If the
    Company makes any amendments to its Code of Conduct that is
    required to be disclosed pursuant to the Exchange Act, the
    Company will make such disclosures on its website.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the section entitled “Executive Compensation
    and Related Information” in the Company’s Proxy
    Statement.

Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item with respect to the
    security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management
    is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled
    “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management” in the Company’s Proxy Statement.

The following table provides certain information regarding
    common stock authorized for issuance under the Company’s
    equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2006.

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information

Number of Securities

Remaining Available for

Number of Securities

Future Issuance under

to be Issued upon

Weighted-Average

Equity Compensation

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

Plans (Excluding

Outstanding Options,

Outstanding Options,

Securities Reflected

Warrants and Rights

Warrants and Rights

in Column (a))

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved
    by stockholders(1)

4,846,471

$

9.75

5,960,308

Equity compensation plans not
    approved by stockholders(2)

888,889

$

2.70

—

Total

5,735,360

$

8.66

5,960,308

(1)

These plans consist of the Company’s 2004 Stock Incentive
    Plan (Amended and Restated Effective April 28, 2006), 2001
    Stock Incentive Plan and 2000 Stock Incentive Plan.

(2)

Represents the grant of a stock option made in February 2003 to
    a senior officer. This option is now fully vested.

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the section entitled “Certain Relationships
    and Related Transactions” in the Company’s Proxy
    Statement.

Item 14.

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the section entitled “Principal Accounting
    Fees and Services” in the Company’s Proxy Statement.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) Financial Statements and Schedules

The financial statements are set forth under Item 8 of this
    Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are
    either not required, not applicable, or the information is
    otherwise included.

(b) Exhibit Listing

Number

Description


.1

Intentionally omitted


.2*

Amended and Restated Certificate
    of Incorporation


.3

Intentionally omitted


.4*

Amended and Restated Bylaws


.1*

Specimen Common Stock certificate


.2*

Sixth Amended and Restated
    Registration Rights Agreement


.3*

Form of Dealer Warrant


.4*

See Exhibits 3.2 and 3.4 for
    provisions defining the rights of holders of common stock and
    non-voting common stock of the registrant


.1*

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    May 3, 2004, by and between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and
    Richard M. McVey#


.2(a)*

Restricted Stock Purchase
    Agreement, dated as of June 11, 2001, by and between
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey#


.2(b)*

Full Recourse Secured Promissory
    Note, dated June 11, 2001, by Richard M. McVey in favor of
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc.#


.2(c)*

Non-Recourse Secured Promissory
    Note, dated June 11, 2001, by Richard M. McVey in favor of
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc.#


.2(d)*

Stock Pledge Agreement, dated as
    of June 11, 2001, by and between MarketAxess Holdings Inc.
    and Richard M. McVey#


.2(e)*

Restricted Stock Purchase
    Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2001, by and between
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey#


.2(f)*

Full Recourse Secured Promissory
    Note, dated July 1, 2001, by Richard M. McVey in favor of
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc.#


.2(g)*

Non-Recourse Secured Promissory
    Note, dated July 1, 2001, by Richard M. McVey in favor of
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc.#


.2(h)*

Stock Pledge Agreement, dated as
    of July 1, 2001, by and between MarketAxess Holdings Inc.
    and Richard M. McVey#


.3*

Stock Option Agreement, dated
    February 7, 2003, by and between MarketAxess Holdings Inc.
    and Richard M. McVey#


.4

Intentionally omitted


.5

Intentionally omitted


.6*

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. Amended
    and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive Plan#


.7*

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. Amended
    and Restated 2001 Stock Incentive Plan#


.8*

Amendment No. 1 to the
    MarketAxess Holdings Inc. Amended and Restated 2001 Stock
    Incentive Plan#


.9*

Amendment to the MarketAxess
    Holdings Inc. 2001 and 2000 Stock Incentive Plans#



Number

Description


.10(a)

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004
    Stock Incentive Plan (amended and restated effective
    April 28, 2006)# (incorporated by reference to Appendix A
    to the registrant’s Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting
    for Stockholders held on June 7, 2006, filed on May 1,
    2006)


.10(b)

Form of Incentive Stock Option
    Agreement pursuant to the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock
    Incentive Plan (amended and restated effective April 28,
    2006)# (incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the
    registrant’s Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders held on June 7, 2006, filed on May 1,
    2006)


.10(c)

Form of Non Qualified Stock Option
    Agreement pursuant to the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock
    Incentive Plan (amended and restated effective April 28,
    2006)# (incorporated by reference to Appendix C to the
    registrant’s Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders held on June 7, 2006, filed on May 1,
    2006)


.11*

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004
    Annual Performance Incentive Plan#


.12*

Form of Indemnification Agreement


.13

Restricted Stock Agreement
    Pursuant to MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan,
    dated as of January 31, 2006, by and between MarketAxess
    Holdings Inc. and Richard M. McVey# (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated March 30, 2006)


.14

Offer Letter dated August 21,
    2006 between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and T. Kelley Millet#
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    registrant’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated September 12, 2006)


.15

Stock Option Agreement dated
    September 13, 2006 between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and T.
    Kelley Millet# (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    registrant’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated September 13, 2006)


.16

Restricted Stock Agreement dated
    September 13, 2006 between MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and
    T. Kelley Millet# (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.2 to the registrant’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated September 13, 2006)


.17

Waiver and General Release, dated
    September 13, 2006, by and between MarketAxess Holdings
    Inc. and Thomas M. Thees# (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.1 to the registrant’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated September 21, 2006)


.18

Settlement and Compromise
    Agreement, dated December 13, 2006, by and between
    MarketAxess Europe Limited and Iain N. Baillie# (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 13, 2006)


.1*

Subsidiaries of the Registrant


.1**

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP


.1**

Certification by Chief Executive
    Officer pursuant to Exchange Act

Rule 13a-14(a),

as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002


.2**

Certification by Chief Financial
    Officer pursuant to Exchange Act

Rule 13a-14(a),

as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002


.1**

Certification by Chief Executive
    Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


.2**

Certification by Chief Financial
    Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, the registrant has duly caused this

Form 10-K

to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
    authorized, in the City of New York, State of New York, on this
    13th day of March, 2007.

MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

By:

/s/

Richard
    M. McVey

Richard M. McVey

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, this

Form 10-K

has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and
    on the dates indicated:

Signature

Title(s)

Date

/s/

Richard
    M. McVey

Richard
    M. McVey

Chief Executive Officer and
    Chairman

of the Board of Directors

(principal executive officer)

March 13, 2007

/s/

James
    N.B. Rucker

James
    N.B. Rucker

Chief Financial Officer
    (principal

financial and accounting officer)

March 13, 2007

/s/

Stephen
    P. Casper

Stephen
    P. Casper

Director

March 13, 2007

/s/

David
    G. Gomach

David
    G. Gomach

Director

March 13, 2007

Carlos
    Hernandez

Director

March   , 2007

/s/

Ronald
    M. Hersch

Ronald
    M. Hersch

Director

March 13, 2007

/s/

Wayne
    D. Lyski

Wayne
    D. Lyski

Director

March 13, 2007

/s/

Jerome
    S.
    Markowitz

Jerome
    S. Markowitz

Director

March 13, 2007

/s/

Nicolas
    S. Rohatyn

Nicolas
    S. Rohatyn

Director

March 13, 2007

/s/

John
    Steinhardt

John
    Steinhardt

Director

March 13, 2007

107