10-K


y18398e10vk.htm

FILING ON FORM 10-K

FILING ON FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form

10-K

Commission File Number 0-50670

MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

(212) 813-6000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE
ACT:

None

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE
ACT:

Common Stock, par value $0.003 per share

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Act.     Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation

S-K

is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this
Form

10-K

or any
amendment to this
Form

10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer” in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
filer

o

Accelerated
filer

þ

Non-accelerated
filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange
Act).     Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock and
non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
as of June 30, 2005 (the last business day of the
registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter)
was approximately $297,447,980 computed by reference to the last
reported sale price on the National Market System on that date.
For purposes of this calculation, affiliates are considered to
be officers, directors and holders of 10% or more of the
outstanding common stock of the registrant on that date. The
registrant had 23,559,473 shares of common stock, 1,635,318
of which were held by affiliates, and 4,401,330 shares of
non-voting common stock outstanding on that date.

At March 8, 2006, the aggregate number of shares of the
registrant’s voting and non voting common stock outstanding
was 30,561,662.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for
the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by
reference into Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of
Part III of this
Form

10-K.

MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

2005 FORM

10-K

ANNUAL REPORT


PART I

Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains certain “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be
identified by words such as “expects,”
“intends,” “anticipates,” “plans,”
“believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,”
“will,” or words of similar meaning and include, but
are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for our
future business and financial performance. Forward-looking
statements are based on management’s current expectations
and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties,
risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to
predict. It is routine for our internal projections and
expectations to change as the year or each quarter in the year
progresses, and therefore it should be clearly understood that
the internal projections and beliefs upon which we base our
expectations may change prior to the end of each quarter or the
year. Although these expectations may change, we are under no
obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements
contained in this report. Our company policy is generally to
provide our expectations only once per quarter, and not to
update that information until the next quarter. Actual future
events or results may differ materially from those contained in
the projections or forward-looking statements. Factors that
could cause or contribute to such differences include those
discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in
Item 1A., “Risk Factors.”

Item 1.

Business

MarketAxess operates one of the leading platforms for the
electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of
fixed-income securities. Our electronic trading platform is
accessed by our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients
either via a direct connection or over the Internet. Our 657
active institutional investor client firms (firms that executed
at least one trade through our electronic trading platform
between January 2005 and December 2005) can access the aggregate
liquidity provided by the collective interest of our 25
broker-dealer clients in buying or selling bonds through our
platform. We also provide data and analytical tools that help
our clients make trading decisions and we facilitate the trading
process by electronically communicating order information
between trading counterparties. Since our inception, the
majority of our revenues have been generated from the trading of
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, although an increasing
percentage of our revenues has recently been derived from the
trading of European high-grade corporate and emerging markets
bonds, from our data and analytical tools and from interest
income. Our trading commissions are generated from transactions
between a broker-dealer client and an institutional investor
client.

Our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional
investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable
bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades
with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that
choose to respond. We offer our broker-dealer clients a solution
that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional
investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. In
addition to U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European
high-grade corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, we also
offer our clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield
bonds, agency bonds, new issues and credit default swap indices.
To date, however, crossover and high-yield bonds, agency bonds,
new issues and credit default swap indices do not represent a
significant component of our revenues.

We derive our revenues primarily from commissions paid by our
broker-dealer clients for trades executed on our platform (which
represented 85.2% of our revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2005) and, to a lesser extent, from
information and user access fees charged to our clients (which
represented 5.6% of our revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2005), interest income earned on our cash,
cash equivalent and securities balance (which represented 4.0%
of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005) and
license fees for access to our trading platform charged to
certain of our broker-dealer clients (which represented 3.8% of
our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005).

Traditionally, bond trading has been a manual process, with
product and price discovery conducted over the telephone between
two or more parties. This traditional process, which is still
how most corporate bonds


are traded, has a number of shortcomings resulting primarily
from the lack of a central trading facility for these
securities, which creates difficulty matching buyers and sellers
for particular issues. In recent years, an increasing number of
corporate bond trading participants have utilized

e-mail

and other
electronic means of communication (including proprietary,
single-dealer systems) for trading corporate bonds. While this
has addressed some of the shortcomings associated with
traditional corporate bond trading, we believe that the process
is still hindered by limited liquidity, limited price
transparency, significant transaction costs, compliance and
regulatory challenges, and difficulty in executing numerous
trades at one time.

Through our electronic platform, our institutional investor
clients can determine prices available for a security, a process
called price discovery, as well as trade securities directly
with our broker-dealer clients. The price discovery process
includes the ability to view indicative prices from the
broker-dealer clients’ inventory available on our platform,
access to real-time pricing information and analytical tools
(including

spread-to

-Treasury
data, search capabilities and independent credit research)
available on our Corporate
BondTicker

tm

service and the ability to request executable bids and offers
simultaneously from up to 19 of our broker-dealer clients during
the trade process. On average, institutional investor clients
receive several bids or offers from broker-dealer clients in
response to trade inquiries. However, some trade inquiries may
not receive any bids or offers. Our services relating to trade
execution include single and multiple-dealer inquiries; list
trading, which is the ability to request bids and offers on
multiple bonds at the same time; and swap trading, which is the
ability to request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to
sell another bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be
executed simultaneously, with payment based on the price
differential of the bonds. Once a trade is completed on our
platform, the broker-dealer client and institutional investor
client may settle the trade with the assistance of our automated
post-trade messaging, which facilitates the communication of
trade acknowledgment and allocation information between our
institutional investor and broker-dealer clients.

We are not a party to the actual trades that occur on our
platform and we do not at any time take title to the traded
securities or the proceeds from the sale of such securities.
Rather, we serve as an intermediary between broker-dealers and
institutional investors, enabling them to meet, agree on a price
and then transact with each other.

Our client base includes 25 of the leading broker-dealers in
global fixed-income trading and 657 active institutional
investor firms (firms that executed at least one trade through
our electronic trading platform between January 2005 and
December 2005), including 80 of the top 100 global holders of
U.S. corporate bonds, as measured by Thomson Financial. Our
broker-dealer clients accounted for approximately 97% of the
underwriting of newly-issued U.S. high-grade corporate
bonds and in excess of 60% of the underwriting of newly issued
European high-grade corporate bonds in 2005, and include 16 of
the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked by 2005 new issue
underwriting volume of European high-grade corporate bonds. We
believe these broker-dealers also represent the principal source
of secondary market liquidity in the other markets in which we
operate. Secondary market liquidity refers to the ability of
market participants to buy or sell a security quickly and in
large volume subsequent to the original issuance of the
security, without substantially affecting the price of the
security. Our broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income
securities by traditional means including telephone,

e-mail

and proprietary,
single-dealer systems in addition to our electronic trading
platform and we expect them to continue to do so in the future.
We believe that these traditional means of trading remain the
manner in which the majority of bonds are traded between
institutional investors and broker-dealers. Our volume in
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds represented 7.6% of the
total U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume, excluding
convertible bonds, for 2005 as reported by the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) Trade
Reporting and Compliance Engine (“TRACE”), which
includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as trading
between institutional investors and broker-dealers. We have not
identified a reliable source of data relating to either the
total volume of

client-to

-dealer
trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore
are unable to accurately determine the total volume of secondary
trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading conducted
on our platform.


Results for Calendar Years 2005, 2004 and 2003

We experienced significant growth in total trading volume, total
commissions and income before taxes from 2003 to 2004. However,
total trading volume and total commissions remained relatively
constant from 2004 to 2005 and income before taxes declined as a
result of higher expenses in 2005 as compared to 2004, as
illustrated in the following table:

Year Ended December 31,




Total trading volume (in billions)

$

299.2

$

298.1

$

192.2

Total commissions (in millions)

66.9

68.2

52.8

Income before taxes (in millions)

11.6

17.3

4.4

For the year ended December 31, 2005, 59.4% of our trading
volume was in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, 24.5% of our
trading volume was in European high-grade corporate bonds and
16.1% of our trading volume was in other bonds, most of which
are emerging markets bonds.

Industry Background

Fixed-income securities are issued by corporations, governments
and other entities, and pay a pre-set absolute or relative rate
of return. As of December 31, 2005, there were
approximately $25.3 trillion of fixed-income securities
outstanding in the U.S. market, including $5.0 trillion of
U.S. corporate bonds. We are primarily active in seven
segments of the global fixed-income securities market:
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds; European high-grade
corporate bonds; emerging markets bonds; crossover and
high-yield bonds; agency bonds; new issues; and credit default
swap indices.

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The total amount of U.S. corporate bonds outstanding has
grown from $3.0 trillion as of December 31, 1999 to
$5.0 trillion as of December 31, 2005. The average
daily trading volume of U.S. corporate bonds increased from
approximately $19.0 billion in 2002 (the first calendar
year for which such data are available) to approximately
$21.0 billion at the end of 2005.

The U.S. corporate bond market consists of three broad
categories of securities: investment-grade debt (so-called
“high-grade”), which typically refers to debt rated
BBB- or better by Standard & Poor’s, or Baa3 or
better by Moody’s Investor Service; debt rated below
investment-grade (so-called “high-yield”), which
typically refers to debt rated lower than BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s or Baa3 by Moody’s Investor
Service; and debt convertible into equity (so-called
“convertible debt”).

The U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, which represents
the largest subset of the U.S. corporate bond market, has
undergone significant change over the last several years, which
has been driven by a number of factors, including:

•

Improved price transparency

— In 2002, the NASD
    adopted TRACE reporting, which requires NASD members to report
    secondary market transactions in certain fixed-income securities
    to the NASD. Since February 2005, the list of TRACE-eligible
    bonds has included 23,000 unique securities, representing 99% of
    the daily trading volume of high-grade bonds.

•

Introduction of electronic trading platforms

—
    Electronic trading platforms, which are in the early stages of
    adoption, act as central facilities to bring together buyers and
    sellers. The actions of participants on these platforms are
    facilitated by an electronic medium that improves some of the
    manual processes that might otherwise be required, such as
    searching for securities with specific characteristics, the
    coordination of multiple bilateral telephone calls or electronic
    communications, the sorting and analysis of competing offers,
    and the entry of orders into the trading system after verbal or

e-mail

trade agreement.
    As a result, these platforms typically provide a lower-cost and
    more efficient means of enhanced distribution and trade
    execution than previously possible.


•

Introduction of credit derivatives

— Credit
    derivatives provide increased flexibility and liquidity for
    investors and lenders to diversify their credit exposures. The
    appeal of these products is apparent in the growth in the total
    notional amount of outstanding credit default swaps, which
    increased from approximately $900 billion at
    December 31, 2001 to approximately $12.4 trillion at
    June 30, 2005.

•

Growth in the total amount of debt
    outstanding

— The total size of the
    U.S. high-grade corporate bond market has increased
    significantly since 1998, when approximately $564 billion
    gross amount of new bonds were issued, as compared to
    approximately $627 billion during 2005.

European High-Grade Corporate Bond Market

The European high-grade corporate bond market consists of a
broad range of products, issuers and currencies. We define the
European high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist
of bonds intended to be distributed to European investors,
primarily bonds issued by European corporations, excluding bonds
that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging
markets country and excluding most government bonds that trade
in Europe.

We believe that the European high-grade corporate bond market is
impacted by many of the same factors as the U.S. high-grade
corporate bond market. In addition, we believe the following
factors are unique to the European high-grade corporate bond
market:

•

Adoption of the Euro

— The adoption of the Euro
    as the common currency in most European Union countries has
    reduced the importance of currency as an investment selection
    criterion and elevated the importance of the credit risk of
    particular issuers. As a result, institutional investors have
    exhibited a greater interest in investing in a broader range of
    bonds issued by entities domiciled outside of their home
    countries.

•

Regulatory environment

— Certain European Union
    countries have eased restrictions that required institutional
    investors to invest primarily in domestic securities. This has
    provided European institutional investors with increased
    flexibility to invest in securities issued by entities domiciled
    in other countries within the European Union.

•

Common liquidity pool

— The larger capital pool
    created by the common currency and changes in the regulatory
    environment have enabled European corporations to offer larger
    issues, which has resulted in increases in the liquidity and
    trading volumes of these issues. This has attracted even more
    institutional investors, who prefer to invest in highly-liquid
    markets.

Emerging Markets Bond Market

We define the emerging markets bond market generally to include
U.S. dollar- or Euro-denominated bonds issued by sovereign
entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country.
These issuers are typically located in Latin America, Asia, or
Central and Eastern Europe. Examples of countries we classify as
emerging markets include: Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, the
Philippines, Russia, Turkey and Venezuela.

The institutional investor base for emerging markets bonds has
recently expanded to include many crossover investors from the
more mainstream high-yield and high-grade investment areas.
Institutional investors have been drawn to emerging markets
bonds by their high returns and high growth potential, as well
as by a general trend toward positive economic and political
reforms and improving economic performance in many emerging
markets countries.

Crossover and High-Yield Bond Market

We define the high-yield bond market generally to include all
debt rated lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or
Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service. We define the crossover
market to include any debt issue rated below investment grade by
one agency but investment grade by the other. The total amount
of high-yield corporate bonds outstanding has grown from
$875 billion as of December 31, 2003 to approximately
$1.0 trillion as of December 31, 2005.


The NASD began publicly disseminating real-time price
information on approximately 12,000 high-yield corporate bond
issues in 2005. Trades in bonds rated BB and lower are subject
to immediate dissemination if the trade size is less than
$1 million, or greater than $1 million and trades an
average of once or more a day. The disseminated set was expanded
on February 1, 2005 to include reporting of certain
transactions on a delayed basis. The average daily trading
volume of high-yield bonds reported by the NASD for the year
ended December 31, 2005 was $5.26 billion.

We believe that the average daily trading volume in the
high-yield corporate bond market has grown during 2005 partly as
the result of downgrades of some large corporate bond issuers,
including Ford and General Motors.

Agency Bond Market

We define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a
U.S. government-sponsored agency. The offerings of these
agencies are backed by, but not guaranteed by, the
U.S. government. Some prominent issuers of agency bonds are
the Student Loan Marketing Association (“Sallie Mae”),
Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”)
and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie
Mac”). The total amount of long term debt issued by
U.S. federal agencies declined from $1.2 trillion in
2003 to $670 billion in 2005.

The Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported average daily
trading volume in federal agency coupon securities for 2005 of
$17.1 billion.

New Issues

The new issues market for fixed-income securities, also referred
to as the primary market, refers to that part of the capital
markets that deals with the issuance of new securities, a
process whereby companies, governments or public sector
institutions obtain funding through the sale of a new bond
issue. The new issuance process typically involves a syndicate
of securities dealers, who purchase the newly-issued bonds from
the issuer after arranging for placement of the bonds with
institutional and other investors.

Total debt outstanding in the U.S. bond markets as of
December 31, 2005 was $25.3 trillion, with corporate
bonds accounting for 19.8% or $5.0 trillion of the total.
Total bond issuance in the U.S. bond markets in 2005
reached $5.5 trillion, a 0.5% increase from 2004.

Corporate bond issuance decreased to $701.7 billion in
2005, compared to $727.9 billion in 2004 and
$762.7 billion in 2003. In 2005 investment-grade debt
accounted for 89% of the corporate bond issuance with the
high-yield sector accounting for 11% of the issuance.

The level of corporate bond issuance is dependant on a number of
factors including the funding needs of issuers, investor demand
for corporate bonds and the level of interest rates.

Credit Default Swap Market

Credit default swaps are contracts that transfer an asset’s
risk and return from one party to another without transferring
ownership of the underlying asset, allowing market participants
to obtain credit protection or assume credit exposure associated
with a broad range of issuers of fixed-income securities and
other debt obligations. They are often designed to hedge other
exposures and can be tied to particular events, such as a
default, bankruptcy or ratings downgrade. Credit default swaps
provide increased flexibility and liquidity for investors and
lenders to diversify their credit risk. The appeal of these
products is apparent in the growth in the total notional amount
of outstanding credit default swaps, which increased from
approximately $900 billion at December 31, 2001 to
approximately $12.4 trillion at June 30, 2005.


Our Competitive Strengths

Our electronic trading platform provides solutions to some of
the shortcomings of traditional bond trading methods. The
benefits of our solution are demonstrable throughout the trading
cycle:

•

Pre-trade

— gathering real-time and historical
    pricing information, identifying interested buyers and sellers
    in a particular security, and obtaining research and analysis;

•

Trade

— single and multiple security trade
    execution; and

•

Post-trade

— trade detail matching, account
    allocation and automated audit trail.

We believe that we are well positioned to strengthen our market
position in electronic trading in our existing products and to
extend our presence into new products and services by
capitalizing on our competitive strengths, including:

Significant Trading Volumes with Participation by Leading
    Broker-Dealers and Institutional Investors

Our electronic trading platform provides access to the liquidity
provided through the participation on our platform of 25 of the
leading global securities broker-dealers and 657 active
institutional investor firms (firms that executed at least one
trade through our electronic trading platform between January
2005 and December 2005). We believe these broker-dealers
represent the principal source of secondary market liquidity for
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European high-grade
corporate bonds, emerging markets bonds and the other markets in
which we operate. Our broker-dealer clients are motivated to
continue to utilize our platform due to the presence on the
platform of our large network of institutional investor clients,
which includes 80 of the top 100 global holders of
U.S. corporate bonds, as measured by Thomson Financial. We
believe that if we continue to grow the participation of our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients on our
electronic trading platform, the benefits in liquidity on the
platform to both broker-dealers and institutional investors will
be amplified, further motivating them to use our platform.
Currently, the majority of trading of U.S. high-grade
corporate bonds still occurs using traditional bond trading
methods, implying significant opportunity for us to continue to
grow our trading volume. Our trading volume across all of our
products increased from $192.2 billion in 2003 to
$298.1 billion in 2004 and to $299.2 billion in 2005.
Our volume in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds represented
7.6% of the total U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume,
excluding convertible bonds, for 2005 as reported by NASD TRACE,
which includes inter-dealer and retail trading as well as
trading between institutional investors and broker-dealers. We
have not identified a reliable source of data relating to either
the total volume of

client-to

-dealer
trading or the size of the other markets we serve and therefore
we are unable to accurately determine the total volume of
secondary trading of these bonds or the portion of such trading
conducted on our platform.

Execution Benefits to Clients

Benefits to Institutional Investor Clients

We believe we provide numerous benefits to our institutional
investor clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods,
including:

Competitive Prices.

By enabling institutional investors
to simultaneously request bids or offers from our broker-dealer
clients, we believe our electronic trading platform creates an
environment that motivates our broker-dealer clients to provide
competitive prices and gives institutional investors confidence
that they are obtaining a competitive price. For typical
MarketAxess multi-dealer corporate bond inquiries, the range of
competitive

spread-to

-Treasury
responses is, on average, approximately 10 basis points (a
basis point is 1/100 of 1% in yield). As an example of the
potential cost savings to institutional investors, a one basis
point savings on a $1 million face amount trade of a bond
with 10 years to maturity translates to aggregate savings
of approximately $750.00.

Transparent Pricing on a Range of Securities.

The
commingled multi-dealer inventory of bonds posted by our
broker-dealer clients on our platform consists of a daily
average of more than $130 billion in indicative bids and
offers. Subject to applicable regulatory requirements,
institutional investors can search bonds in


inventory based on any combination of issuer, issue, rating,
maturity,

spread-to

-Treasury,
size and dealer providing the listing, in a fraction of the time
it takes to do so manually. Institutional investor clients can
also request executable bids and offers on our electronic
trading platform on any debt security in a database of U.S. and
European corporate bonds, although there can be no assurance as
to the number of broker-dealers who will choose to provide an
executable price. Our platform transmits bid and offer requests
in real-time to broker-dealer clients, who may respond with
executable prices within a time period specified by the investor.

Improved Cost Efficiency.

We believe that we provide
improved efficiency by reducing the time and labor required to
conduct broad product and price discovery. Single-security and
multi-security (bid or offer lists) inquiries can be efficiently
conducted with multiple broker-dealers. In addition, our
Corporate BondTicker eliminates the need for manually-intensive
phone calls or

e-mail

communication to gather, sort and analyze information concerning
historical transaction prices.

Benefits to Broker-Dealer Clients

We also provide substantial benefits to our broker-dealer
clients over traditional fixed-income trading methods, including:

Greater Sales Efficiency.

We offer our broker-dealer
clients broad connectivity with their institutional investor
clients. Through this connectivity, our broker-dealer clients
are able to efficiently display their indications of interest to
buy and sell various securities. We also enable broker-dealers
to broaden their distribution by participating in transactions
to which they otherwise may not have had access. In addition,
the ability to post prices and electronically execute on
straightforward trades enables bond sales professionals at
broker-dealer firms to focus their efforts on more profitable
activities, such as higher value-added trades and more complex
transactions.

More Efficient Inventory Management for Broker-Dealers.

The posting of inventory to, and the ability to respond to
inquiries from, a broad pool of institutional investors, creates
an increased opportunity for broker-dealers to identify demand
for their inventory, particularly in less liquid securities. As
a result, we believe they can achieve enhanced bond inventory
turnover, which may limit credit exposure.

Benefits to Both Institutional Investor and Broker-Dealer
    Clients

We offer additional benefits over traditional fixed-income
trading methods that are shared by both institutional investor
and broker-dealer clients, including:

Greater Trading Accuracy.

Our electronic trading platform
includes verification mechanisms at various stages of the
execution process which result in greater accuracy in the
processing, confirming and clearing of trades between
institutional investor and broker-dealer clients. These
verification mechanisms are designed to ensure that our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are sending
accurate trade messages by providing multiple opportunities to
verify they are trading the correct bond, at the agreed-upon
price and size. Our platform assists our institutional investor
clients in automating the transmittal of order tickets from the
portfolio manager to the trader, and from the trader to
back-office personnel. This automation provides more timely
execution and a reduction in the likelihood of errors that can
result from information being manually entered into different
systems.

Efficient Risk Monitoring and Compliance.

Institutional
investors and their regulators are increasingly focused on
ensuring that best execution is achieved for fixed income
trades. Our electronic trading platform offers both
institutional investors and broker-dealers an automated audit
trail for each stage in the trading cycle. This enables
compliance personnel to review information relating to trades
more easily and with greater reliability. Trade information
including time, price and

spread-to

-Treasury is
stored securely and automatically on our electronic trading
platform. These data also represent a valuable source of
information for our clients’ compliance personnel.
Importantly, we believe the automated audit trail, together with
the competitive pricing that is a feature of our electronic
trading platform, gives fiduciaries the ability to demonstrate
that they have achieved best execution on behalf of their
clients.

Other Service Offerings

In addition to services directly related to the execution of
trades, we offer our clients several other services, including:


Information Services.

The information and analytical
tools we provide to our clients help them make investment and
trading decisions. Our Corporate BondTicker provides access to
real-time and historical price, yield and MarketAxess estimated

spread-to

-Treasuries
for publicly disseminated NASD TRACE-eligible bonds. Corporate
BondTicker combines publicly-available TRACE data with the
prices for trades executed on our U.S. high-grade
electronic trading platform, integrating the two data sources
and providing real-time TRACE data with associated analytical
tools that are not otherwise available. In addition, Corporate
BondTicker provides indicative prices for secondary loans and
credit default swaps, through arrangements with certain of our
broker-dealer clients, and independent credit research. Our
electronic trading platform allows institutional investors to
compile, sort and use information to discover investment
opportunities that might have been difficult or impossible to
identify using a manual information gathering process or other
electronic services.

Straight-Through Processing.

Straight-through processing
refers to the integration of systems and processes to automate
the trade process from

end-to

-end —
trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without
the need for manual intervention. Our electronic trading
platform provides broker-dealers and institutional investors
with the ability to automate portions of their transaction
processing requirements, improving accuracy and efficiency.
Through electronic messaging, institutional investors can submit
inquiries to, and receive electronic notices of execution from
MarketAxess in industry standard protocols, complete with all
relevant trade details. Institutional investors can download
trade messages, allocate trades to sub-accounts on whose behalf
the trades were made and send the allocations to broker-dealers
for confirmation.

Robust, Scalable Technology Platform

We have developed proprietary technology that is highly secure,
fault-tolerant and provides adequate capacity for our current
operations, as well as for substantial growth. Our highly
scalable systems are designed to accommodate additional volume,
products and clients with relatively little modification and low
incremental costs.

Proven Innovator with an Experienced Management
    Team

Since our inception, we have been an innovator in the
fixed-income securities markets. Our management team is
comprised of executives with an average of more than
20 years’ experience in the securities industry. We
have consistently sought to benefit participants in the markets
we serve by attempting to replicate the essential features of
fixed-income trading, including the existing relationships
between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients,
while applying technology to eliminate weaknesses in traditional
trading methods.

Euromoney

magazine recognized
MarketAxess as offering the best multi-dealer trading platform
for corporate bonds in 2003 and 2004.

Some of the innovations we have introduced to electronic trading
include:

Our Strategy

Our objective is to provide the leading global electronic
trading platform for fixed-income securities, connecting
broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and
efficiently, while offering a broad array of services to market
participants across the trading cycle. The key elements of our
strategy are:


Enhance the Liquidity of Securities Traded on Our Platform
    and Broaden Our Client Base in Our Existing Markets

We intend to further enhance the liquidity of securities traded
on our leading electronic, multi-dealer to client fixed-income
platform. Our ability to innovate and efficiently add new
functionality and product offerings to the MarketAxess platform
will help us deepen our market share with our existing clients,
as well as expand our client base, which we believe will in turn
lead to even further increases in the liquidity of the
securities provided by our broker-dealer clients and available
on our platform. We will seek to make our current product
offerings on our European electronic trading platform available
to our 432 active U.S. institutional investor clients
(firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic
trading platform between January 2005 and December 2005) and to
increase the number of active European institutional investor
clients (225 firms that executed at least one trade through our
electronic trading platform between January and December 2005)
using our U.S. electronic trading platform, in each case
subject to regulatory requirements.

Leverage our Existing Technology and Client Relationships
    to Expand into New Segments of the Fixed-Income Securities
    Market

We intend to leverage our technology, as well as our strong
broker-dealer and institutional investor relationships, to
deploy our electronic trading platform into additional product
segments within the fixed-income securities market. Due in part
to our highly scalable systems, we believe we will be able to
enter into new markets with relatively little technology
modification and incremental cost.

Continue to Strengthen and Expand our Trade-Related
    Service Offerings

We plan to continue building our existing service offerings so
that our electronic trading platform is more fully integrated
into the workflow of our broker-dealer and institutional
investor clients. We also plan to continue to add functionality
to enhance the ability of our clients to achieve a fully
automated,

end-to

-end
straight-through processing solution (automation from trade
initiation to settlement). We are continually considering the
introduction of new trading techniques. As an example, we have
the technology necessary to offer anonymous trading of
fixed-income securities if and when the market opportunity for
such a product arises.

Expand our Data and Information Services Offerings

We regularly add new content and analytical capabilities to
Corporate BondTicker in order to improve the value of the
information we provide to our clients. Examples of added content
include pricing for syndicated loans and credit derivatives, and
independent credit research. We intend to enter into
distribution agreements with information and data services
companies in order to widen the user base of our data products
and to continue adding new content and analytical capabilities.
In July 2005, we entered into an agreement with Interactive Data
Corporation, through its subsidiary, FT Interactive Data, to
promote and market Corporate BondTicker. We expect this and
other distribution partnerships to broaden our presence in the
marketplace and increase our brand awareness. We intend to seek
out additional market leaders in various segments of the
securities industry and leverage their existing customer bases
and distribution channels to further our data services market
penetration.

As the use of our electronic trading platform continues to grow,
we believe that the amount and value of our proprietary trading
data will also increase, further enhancing the value of our
information services offerings to our clients.

Pursue Strategic Alliances and Select Acquisitions

We plan to continue to increase and supplement our internal
growth by entering into strategic alliances, or acquiring
businesses or technologies, that will enable us to enter new
markets, provide new products or services, or otherwise enhance
the value of our platform to our clients.

In December 2005, we announced an arrangement with Bloomberg
L.P. (“Bloomberg”) to establish a direct interface
between the MarketAxess electronic credit trading platform and
the Bloomberg Portfolio Order Management system
(“POMS”) on the Bloomberg Professional(R) service. The
interface between the


Company and Bloomberg allows MarketAxess users of Bloomberg POMS
to send trade inquiries from their POMS fixed-income blotter
directly into the MarketAxess trading platform. Upon execution
of a trade, MarketAxess will then transmit the filled orders
back to Bloomberg POMS. This new workflow eliminates several
manual re-keying steps in the trade processing cycle, enhancing
straight-through processing for MarketAxess clients who are also
users of Bloomberg POMS.

Increase Usage of Our Trading Platform by Hedge
    Funds

We plan to continue to actively market our trading platform to
hedge funds. We are investing in products that suit the needs of
this client segment, and we have reconfigured our sales teams to
improve our service to hedge funds. We believe that the launch
of credit default swap index trading on our platform will enable
us to increase volumes from our hedge fund clients, as this
client segment is an active user of credit default swaps.

MarketAxess Electronic Trading Platform

Current Markets

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bonds

Our U.S. high-grade corporate bond business consists of
U.S. dollar-denominated investment-grade debt issued by
corporations for distribution in the U.S. Institutional
investors based in the U.S., as well as institutional investors
located in the U.K., Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, Sweden,
Norway, Hong Kong and Singapore, have access to
U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading on our electronic
trading platform. Investment-grade debt typically refers to debt
rated BBB- or better by Standard & Poor’s and Baa3
or better by Moody’s Investor Service. We use the terms
high-grade debt and investment-grade debt interchangeably in
this annual report on
Form

10-K.

Our
trading volume in the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market
increased from $10.0 billion in 2001 to $177.6 billion
in 2005. The majority of trading in U.S. high-grade
corporate bonds is still conducted by telephone.

In the U.S. high-grade corporate bond market, 19
broker-dealers utilize our platform, including 17 of the top 20
broker-dealers as ranked by 2005 new-issue underwriting volume.
Four hundred thirty-two active institutional investor clients
(firms that executed at least one trade through our electronic
trading platform between January 2005 and December 2005) utilize
our electronic trading platform to trade U.S. high-grade
corporate bonds.

We offer our institutional investor clients access to a broad
inventory of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, which is
provided and updated daily by our broker-dealer clients. Our
electronic trading platform is a multi-dealer disclosed
counterparty model, which allows institutional investors to view
bids and offers from one or more of our broker-dealer clients
while permitting each party to know the identity of its
counter-party throughout the trading process. By disclosing the
counterparties, the inquiry system on which our trading platform
is based combines the strength of existing offline client/dealer
relationships with the efficiency and transparency of an
electronic trading platform. This enables institutional
investors to instantly direct trade inquiries and negotiations
to their traditional broker-dealer or to any of the overwhelming
majority of the world’s leading broker-dealers who provide
liquidity in these securities. Institutional investors have
access to the commingled inventory of our broker-dealer clients,
representing indicative bids and offers. Each line item of
inventory represents an indicative bid and/or offer on a
particular bond issue by a particular broker-dealer client.
Institutional investor clients are not restricted to trading
only the bonds posted as inventory, although many of the trades
conducted on our platform are made from the posted inventory. To
transact in a specific bond that does not appear in inventory,
institutional investors can easily search our database and
submit an online inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can
respond with live, executable prices. In a single inquiry,
institutional investors can request bids or offers from up to
all 19 of our U.S. broker-dealer clients. While, on
average, institutional investor clients receive several bids or
offers from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some
inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.


European High-Grade Corporate Bonds

The European high-grade corporate bond market consists of a
broad range of products, issuers and currencies. We define the
European high-grade corporate bond market generally to consist
of bonds intended to be distributed to European investors,
primarily bonds issued by European corporations, excluding bonds
that are issued by a corporation domiciled in an emerging
markets country and most government bonds that trade in Europe.
Examples include:

MarketAxess Europe Limited, our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary,
commenced trading operations in August 2001. MarketAxess Europe
Limited received Financial Services Authority (“FSA”)
regulatory approval and began to offer European secondary
trading functionality in U.S. dollar- and Euro-denominated
European corporate bonds to our broker-dealer and institutional
investor clients in September 2001. In 2003, we added trading in
other European high-grade corporate bonds, including bonds
issued in Pounds Sterling and floating rate notes. As on our
U.S. electronic trading platform, all trading on our
European platform is done using a multi-dealer disclosed
counterparty model. We offered the first platform in Europe with
this capability for corporate bonds.

In the European high-grade credit market, 20 broker-dealers
utilize our platform, including 16 of the top 20 broker-dealers
as ranked by 2005 new-issue underwriting volume of European
corporate bonds. The 20 broker-dealers who utilize our European
platform are: ABN Amro, Banc of America Securities, Barclays,
Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche
Bank, Dresdner Bank AG, DZ Bank AG, Goldman Sachs, HSBC,
JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Royal
Bank of Canada, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Société
Générale and UBS.

The 225 active institutional investor clients (firms that
executed at least one trade through our European electronic
trading platform between January 2005 and December 2005) that
utilize our platform for trading European high-grade corporate
bonds are based outside of the U.S. On a typical day,
institutional investors on our European corporate bond trading
platform have access to approximately 18,000 line items of
commingled inventory, representing an aggregate of approximately
$90 billion of indicative bids and offers. In a single
inquiry, institutional investors can request bids or offers from
up to six of the broker-dealers who participate on the European
platform. While many of the trades conducted on our platform are
made from the posted inventory, institutional investor clients
are not restricted to trading only the bonds posted as
inventory. To transact in a specific bond that does not appear
in inventory, institutional investors can submit an online
inquiry to their chosen broker-dealers, who can respond with
live, executable prices. While, on average, institutional
investor clients receive several bids or offers from
broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some inquiries
may not receive any bids or offers. Our 2005 trading volume in
the European high-grade corporate bond market was
$73.4 billion. We have not identified a reliable source of
data relating to the total volume of

client-to

-dealer
trading in the European high-grade corporate bond market and,
therefore, we are unable to determine the portion of this
trading that takes place on our platform. The majority of
trading in European high-grade corporate bonds is currently
conducted by telephone.

Emerging Markets Bonds

We define the emerging markets bond market generally to include
U.S. dollar- or Euro-denominated bonds issued by sovereign
entities or corporations domiciled in a developing country.
These issuers are


typically located in Latin America, Asia, or Central and Eastern
Europe. The emerging markets countries whose bonds were most
frequently traded on our platform in 2005 were Brazil, Colombia,
Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, Russia, Turkey and Venezuela.

Seventeen of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our
platform to trade emerging markets bonds. Institutional investor
clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to eight of
these 17 participating broker-dealer clients. While, on average,
institutional investor clients receive several bids or offers
from broker-dealers in response to trade inquiries, some
inquiries may not receive any bids or offers.

We have not identified a reliable source of data relating to the
total volume of

client-to

-dealer
trading in emerging markets bonds and, therefore, we are unable
to determine the portion of this trading that is taking place on
our platform. The majority of trading in emerging markets bonds
is currently conducted by telephone.

New Issues

For newly-issued U.S. high-grade corporate bonds and for
newly-issued emerging markets bonds, we enable
U.S. institutional investors to submit indications of
interest on our electronic trading platform directly to the
underwriter syndicate desks of our broker-dealer clients.
Institutional investors can access the new-issue calendar,
prospectuses, transaction terms and online allocations on our
platform. Our broker-dealer clients add the indications of
interest for new issues submitted on our platform to the
indications of interest they receive through traditional offline
methods to build their order book for an offering. By making
U.S. high-grade new issues available on the MarketAxess
platform, issuers and broker-dealers are able to reach a broader
base of institutional investors and are able to leverage our
technology to efficiently and effectively communicate with
institutional investors throughout the offering process. Issuers
are also given greater visibility into the number and size of
the indications of interest and firm commitments to purchase
their bonds. Institutional investors are given another method to
gain information regarding, and better access to, new issues.

In the new-issues market, eleven broker-dealers utilize our
platform, all of whom are in the top 20 broker-dealers as ranked
by 2005 new-issue underwriting volume and who collectively
represented the majority of new-issue underwriting volume in
2005. These dealers also continue to use traditional
distribution channels for new issues. All of our
U.S. institutional investors have access to our electronic
trading platform for new-issue bonds. In 2005, approximately
$150 billion of new issues inventory was made available on
our platform, representing approximately 21% of all
U.S. high-grade corporate bond new issues during the year.

Crossover and High-Yield Bonds

We define the high-yield bond market generally to include all
debt rated lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s or
Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Service. We define the crossover
market as any debt issue rated below investment grade by one
agency but investment grade by the other.

Fourteen of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform
to trade crossover and high-yield bonds. Institutional investor
clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to all 14 of
the participating broker-dealer clients.

The average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds reported by
the NASD for the year ended December 31, 2005 was
$5.26 billion.

Agency Bonds

We define the agency bond market to include debt issued by a
U.S. government-sponsored agency. The offerings of these
agencies are backed by, but not guaranteed by, the
U.S. government. Some prominent issuers of agency bonds are
the Student Loan Marketing Association (Sallie Mae), Federal
National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). The total amount of
U.S. agency bonds outstanding has grown from $1.9 trillion
as of December 31, 2000 to $2.6 trillion as of
December 31, 2005.

Ten of our U.S. broker-dealer clients use our platform to
trade agency bonds. Institutional investor clients can direct an
inquiry simultaneously to up to all ten of the participating
broker-dealer clients.


The Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported average daily
trading volume in federal agency coupon securities for 2005 of
$17.1 billion.

Credit Default Swaps

We launched credit default swap index trading on our platform on
September 12, 2005. We have entered into an arrangement
with the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation’s
wholly-owned subsidiary, Deriv/ SERV, a full-service provider of
automated trade processing solutions in the OTC derivatives
market. MarketAxess has integrated its front-end Credit Default
Swaps, or CDS, index trading system with Deriv/ SERV, allowing
it to offer an

end-to

-end electronic
trading solution designed to eliminate trade discrepancies and
expedite the confirmation process. MarketAxess also subscribes
to Markit Group Limited’s RED service, the industry
standard for reference entity and reference obligation
identifiers in the credit derivatives market. The Markit RED
data will help MarketAxess achieve straight-through processing
for its institutional investor clients from pre-trade through
confirmation.

Ten of our U.S. broker-dealer clients are live on our
platform to trade credit default swap indices. Institutional
investor clients can direct an inquiry simultaneously to up to 4
of the ten participating broker-dealer clients.

Key Trading Functionalities

Single Inquiry Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to
request bids or offers in a single inquiry from up to 19 of our
broker-dealer clients for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds,
from up to six of our broker-dealer clients for European
high-grade corporate bonds and from up to eight of our
broker-dealer clients in emerging markets bonds. Institutional
investors can obtain bids or offers on any security posted in
inventory or included in the database available on our platform.
Institutional investors can choose when they would like the
broker-dealers’ prices or spreads to be returned to them,
in order to have the ability to see all executable prices
available at the same time. As part of the price discovery
process, institutional investors and broker-dealers can also see
the transaction history of the security they are buying or
selling by accessing Corporate BondTicker before executing a
transaction.

List Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to
request bids or offers on a list of bonds, with the number of
different bonds on each list varying between 8 and 25 items,
depending on the market. This facilitates efficient trading for
institutional investors such as mutual funds and hedge funds.
Institutional investors are able to have multiple lists
executable throughout the trading day, enabling them to manage
their daily cash flows, portfolio duration, and credit and
sector exposure.

Swap Trading Functionality

We currently offer institutional investors the ability to
request an offer to purchase one bond and a bid to sell another
bond, in a manner such that the two trades will be executed
simultaneously, with payment based on the price or yield
differential of the securities.

Information and Analytical Tools

Corporate
    BondTicker

tm

Corporate BondTicker provides real-time NASD TRACE data and
enhances it with MarketAxess trade data and analytical tools to
provide professional market participants with a comprehensive
set of corporate bond price information. The data include trade
time and sales information, including execution prices, as well
as MarketAxess-estimated

spread-to

-Treasuries,
for trades disseminated by the NASD TRACE system. The data also
include actual execution prices and

spread-to

-Treasury
levels for U.S. high-grade corporate bond trades executed
on the MarketAxess platform. Corporate BondTicker allows
institutional investors to search for and sort bonds based upon
specific criteria, such as volume, time/date of transaction,
spread change, issuer or security. This search function allows
institutional investors to compile information relating to
potential


securities trades in a fraction of the time that it takes to
manually compile this information from disparate sources or
other electronic databases, including direct TRACE feeds. In
addition, Corporate BondTicker provides independent credit
research, as well as indicative prices for secondary markets in
loans and credit default swaps.

TRACE facilitates the mandatory reporting of

over-the

-counter
secondary market transactions in eligible fixed-income
securities. All broker-dealers that are NASD member firms have
an obligation to report transactions in corporate bonds to TRACE
under a set of rules approved by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The NASD then publicly
disseminates a portion of this data, which is available free of
charge on a delayed basis through the NASD website or available
immediately for a set fee.

Corporate BondTicker is integrated directly into the MarketAxess
electronic trading platform and can be seamlessly accessed,
either when viewing securities inventory or when launching an
inquiry. Corporate BondTicker is also available through the
Internet for non-trading professional market participants,
including, among others, research analysts and rating agencies,
who can log in and access the information via an

easy-to

-use
browser-based interface.

We provide Corporate BondTicker as an ancillary service to our
trading clients and also to other industry participants. We
derive revenues from our Corporate BondTicker service by
charging for seat licenses per user at our broker-dealer and
institutional investor clients, through distribution agreements
with other information service providers and through bulk data
sales to third parties. Seat license fees from institutional
investor clients are waived for clients that transact a
sufficient volume of trades through MarketAxess.

We have recently added additional analytical capabilities to our
information services offerings that aim to provide clients with
more information about bond prices and market activity,
including asset swap spreads, turnover percentage and liquidity
ratios. These statistics measure a security’s trading
activity relative to its amount outstanding and relative to the
overall market, respectively, providing an additional
perspective on relative liquidity. In addition, we provide
pricing measures to help institutional investors better assess
the relative value of a corporate bond, providing more
consistent relative pricing information for institutional
investors, such as offering spread data versus the interest rate
swap curve and versus the U.S. Treasury curve. Users are
also able to download a variety of MarketAxess-compiled trade
reports containing a comprehensive review of trading activity.
Corporate BondTicker is currently the source of corporate bond
trading information for

The Wall Street Journal.

My Portfolio

Institutional investors are able to upload their corporate bond
portfolio onto our electronic trading platform utilizing the
“My Portfolio” trading feature. Institutional
investors who utilize “My Portfolio” benefit from the
ability to automatically match inventory on our platform to
bonds held in their portfolio, allowing them to more efficiently
launch an inquiry and transact in these securities. Users of
this feature can also directly access Corporate BondTicker to
obtain the trading history of the securities in their portfolio.

MarketAxess Research

MarketAxess Research provides fixed-income, macroeconomic and
strategy research reports offered by 11 of our broker-dealer
clients: ABN Amro, Banc of America Securities, Bear Stearns, BNP
Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, HSBC, JPMorgan, Lehman
Brothers, Morgan Stanley and UBS. These broker-dealers determine
which research reports to make available on our platform and
when they will be made available. Users of this service benefit
from being able to access these reports in one place, rather
than having to go to multiple broker-dealer websites. In
addition, clients can utilize advanced search capabilities for
finding content and can customize the look and feel of the
research views, as well as create

e-mail

driven research
alerts.

Straight-Through Processing

Straight-through processing refers to the integration of systems
and processes to automate the trade process from

end-to

-end —
trade execution, confirmation and settlement — without
the need for manual intervention. There are two elements of
straight-through processing: internal straight-through
processing and


external straight-through processing. Internal straight-through
processing relates to the trade and settlement processes that
are internal to an industry participant. For example, in the
case of an institutional investor, this includes authorization
of orders, placement of orders with broker-dealers, receipt of
execution details and allocation of trades. External
straight-through processing refers to connecting seamlessly to
all external counterparts in the trading and settlement process.

Automation by way of straight-through processing improves the
efficiency of the trade cycle. We provide broker-dealers and
institutional investors with a range of tools that facilitate
straight-through processing, including order upload,

easy-to

-use online
allocation tools and pre- and post-trade messaging features that
enable institutional investors to communicate electronically
between front- and back-office systems, thereby integrating the
order, portfolio management and accounting systems of our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients in real time.
Our straight-through processing tools can be customized to meet
specific needs of clients. We continue to build industry
partnerships to assist our clients in creating connectivity
throughout the trade cycle. Through these partnerships, we are
increasingly providing solutions that can quickly be deployed
within our clients’ trading operations.

Usage of our straight-through processing tools increased
significantly during 2005. In our U.S. high-grade corporate
bond business between the first quarter of 2005 and the fourth
quarter of 2005, the number of orders uploaded electronically
increased from 0.2% to 9.1% of total volume, the number of
online allocations increased from 16.9% to 23.6% of total volume
and the number of completed trades delivered to institutional
investor clients through our post-trade messaging functionality
increased from 24.4% to 34.5% of total volume.

Dependence on Our Broker-Dealer Clients Who Are Also Our
Stockholders

Revenues

We have historically earned the majority of our commissions and
revenues from nine broker-dealer clients (ABN Amro, BNP Paribas,
Banc of America, Bear Stearns, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank,
JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers and UBS) that were (or whose
affiliates were) also our stockholders as of December 31,
2005. Affiliates of most of our broker-dealer clients are also
among our institutional investor clients. Information relating
to the percentage of our commissions and the percentage of our
revenues generated by these nine broker-dealer clients is
provided in the chart below:

Year Ended

December 31,




Percentage of commissions generated by broker-dealer client
    stockholders and their respective affiliates

54.7%

57.7%

62.5%

Percentage of total revenues generated by broker-dealer client
    stockholders and their respective affiliates

49.7%

53.6%

57.0%

Our broker-dealer clients are not restricted from buying and
selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own
proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional
investors. For more information, see “Item 1A.,

Risk Factors

— Risk Factors That May Affect
Future Results — We are dependent on our broker-dealer
clients, nine of which are also our stockholders, who are not
restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities,
directly or through their own proprietary or third-party
platforms, with institutional investors.”

Board of Directors

We currently have nine directors, eight of whom are not our
employees. Of the eight non-employee directors, two are
employees of entities that are affiliates of broker-dealer
clients and stockholders of MarketAxess, although these entities
do not have the contractual right to designate members of our
Board of Directors.


Other Businesses

Our broker-dealer clients currently trade fixed-income
securities by means other than our electronic trading platform
and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. Our
broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities
directly with their clients through traditional bond trading
methods, including telephone conversations,

e-mail

messaging and
other electronic means of communication, including proprietary,
single-dealer systems.

We cannot be assured that such broker-dealers’ primary
commitments will not be to one of our competitors. Other
companies, including some in which certain of our broker-dealer
clients or their affiliates have invested, have developed
electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention
to explore the development of electronic trading platforms that
compete or will compete with us. Furthermore, our broker-dealer
clients or their affiliates have made, or may in the future make
investments in or enter into agreements with other businesses
that directly or indirectly compete with us.

Stock Ownership by Our Broker-Dealer Clients

As of December 31, 2005, nine of our broker-dealer clients
(ABN Amro, BNP Paribas, Banc of America, Bear Stearns, Credit
Suisse, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers and UBS), or
their affiliates, were stockholders of ours. As of
December 31, 2005, these nine broker-dealer clients owned
17,860,982 shares of our common stock, our non-voting
common stock and shares of our common stock issuable upon
exercise of warrants, including approximately 38.7% of our
outstanding common stock. To the extent that some or all of
these broker-dealer clients or their affiliates vote similarly,
they are likely to be able to influence decisions requiring
approval by our stockholders.

Conflicts of Interest

For more information concerning the potential conflicts of
interest that may arise as a result of the various roles
(broker-dealer client and stockholder) played by certain of our
broker-dealer clients, please see the section
“Item 1A.,

Risk Factors

— Risk
Factors That May Affect Future Results  — Risks
Related to the Potential Conflicts of Interest With Our
Broker-Dealer Clients Who Are Also Our Stockholders.”

Sales and Marketing

We promote our products and services using a variety of direct
and indirect sales and marketing strategies. Our sales force of
15 people located in the U.S. and 12 people located in the U.K.
is organized into four teams: U.S. client sales, European
client sales, U.S dealer relations and European dealer
relations. They are responsible for client acquisition activity
and for increasing use of our platform by our existing clients.
Their goal is to train and support existing and new clients on
how to use the system and to educate them as to the benefits of
utilizing an electronic fixed-income trading platform. We employ
various strategies, including advertising, direct marketing,
promotional mailings and participation in industry conferences,
to increase awareness of our brand and our electronic trading
platform. For example, we have worked with

The Wall Street
Journal

to establish Corporate BondTicker as the source of
information for its daily corporate bond and high-yield tables.

Competition

The electronic trading industry is highly competitive and we
expect competition to intensify in the future. We face four main
areas of competition:

•

Telephone

— We compete with bond trading
    business conducted over the telephone between broker-dealers and
    their institutional investor clients. Institutional investors
    have historically purchased fixed-income securities by
    telephoning bond sales professionals at one or more
    broker-dealers and inquiring about the price and availability of
    individual bonds. This remains the manner in which the majority
    of corporate bonds are still traded between institutional
    investors and broker-dealers.


•

E-mail

— We compete with bond trading business
    conducted via

e-mail

between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients.

E-mail

provides an
    efficient means of initiating product and price discovery with a
    large universe of potential trading partners.

•

Other electronic trading platforms

— There are
    numerous other electronic trading platforms currently in
    existence. These include Thomson TradeWeb, a multi-dealer to
    institutional investor trading platform that has historically
    focused on government bond trading, and Bloomberg, which
    provides electronic trading functionality. Thomson TradeWeb has
    launched an electronic corporate bond trading platform. In
    addition, some broker-dealers operate proprietary electronic
    trading systems that enable institutional investors to trade
    directly with a broker-dealer over an electronic medium. We
    believe that we are currently the only platform primarily
    focused on multi-party disclosed trading of credit products
    between broker-dealers and institutional investors, though
    others have or may seek to expand their product offerings to
    compete in this market. Additionally, as we expand our business
    into new products, we will likely come into more direct
    competition with other electronic trading platforms.

•

Market data and information vendors

— Several
    large market data and information providers currently have a
    data and analytics relationship with virtually every
    institutional firm. Some of these entities currently offer
    varying forms of electronic trading of fixed-income securities,
    mostly on a single-dealer basis. Some of these entities have
    announced their intention to expand their electronic trading
    platforms or to develop new platforms. These entities are
    currently direct competitors to our information services and may
    in the future become direct competitors to our electronic
    trading platform.

Competitors, including companies in which some of our
broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic
trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore
the development of electronic trading platforms that compete or
will compete with us. Furthermore, our broker-dealer clients
have made, or may in the future make investments in or enter
into agreements with other businesses that directly or
indirectly compete with us.

In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors,
including:

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these
factors. Our trading volume and client acceptance have grown
over the past three years and we continue to proactively build
technology solutions that serve the needs of the credit markets.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and
integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor
clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems.
We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we
serve in the development of our platform, working closely with
our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs.

Our broker-dealer clients have invested in building application
programming interfaces with us for inventory contributions,
electronic trading, government bond benchmark pricing and
post-trade messaging. We believe that we have successfully built
deep roots with our broker-dealer clients, increasing our level
of service to them while at the same time increasing their
commitment to our services.

Furthermore, a number of our institutional investors clients
have built interfaces to enable them to communicate
electronically between our platform and their order, portfolio
management and accounting systems. We believe that this
increases the commitment of these institutional investor clients
to our services.


Many of our current and potential competitors are more
established and substantially larger than we are and have
substantially greater market presence, as well as greater
financial, engineering, technical, marketing and other
resources. These competitors may aggressively reduce their
pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a
leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses
with profits from trading in other securities. In addition, many
of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader
name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. Some
of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving
opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we
can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional
activities.

Any combination of our competitors or our current broker-dealer
clients may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide
services similar to those provided by us. Current and new
competitors can launch new platforms at a relatively low cost.
Others may acquire the capabilities necessary to compete with us
through acquisitions. Significant consolidation has occurred in
our industry and these firms, as well as others that may
undertake such consolidation in the future, are potential
competitors of ours.

Technology

The design and quality of our technology are critical to our
growth and our ability to execute our business strategy. Our
electronic trading platform has been designed with secure,
scalable, client-server architecture that makes broad use of
distributed computing to achieve speed, reliability and fault
tolerance. The platform is built on industry-standard
technologies.

All critical server-side components, primarily our networks,
application servers and databases, have backup equipment running
in case the main equipment fails. This offers fully redundant
system capacity to maximize uptime and minimize the potential
for loss of transaction data in the event of an internal
failure. We also seek to minimize the impact of external
failures by automatically recovering connections in the event of
a communications failure. The majority of our broker-dealer
clients have dedicated high-speed communication lines to our
network in order to provide fast data transfer. Our security
measures include industry-standard communications encryption.

We have designed our application with an

easy-to

-use,
Windows-based interface. Through a secure, single sign-on, our
clients are able to access our electronic trading platform. We
provide users an automatic software update feature that does not
require manual intervention.

In February 2005, we completed the transition to new
internally-developed software that integrated our emerging
markets and European bond platforms with our
U.S. high-grade corporate bond platform. The new trading
platforms incorporate the feedback we received from our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. The new
platforms offer enhanced functionality and greater

ease-of

-use.
Additionally, they consolidate separate trading protocols and
systems, thereby reducing the ongoing development and
maintenance costs associated with maintaining multiple
technology platforms. The new platforms have been designed to
handle six times our current trading volume.

Intellectual Property

We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret
and trademark laws, written agreements and common law to protect
our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual
property. Our software code, elements of our electronic trading
platform, Web site and other proprietary materials are protected
by copyright laws. We currently have six patent applications
pending, covering certain aspects of our business.

The written agreements upon which we rely to protect our
proprietary technology, processes and intellectual property
include agreements designed to protect our trade secrets.
Examples of these written agreements include third party
nondisclosure agreements, employee nondisclosure and inventions
assignment agreements, and agreements with customers,
contractors and strategic partners. Other written agreements
upon which we rely to protect our proprietary technology,
processes and intellectual property take many forms, and contain
provisions related to patent, copyright, trademark or trade
secret rights.


We have obtained U.S. federal registration of the
MarketAxess

®

name and logo, and the same mark and logo have been registered
in several foreign jurisdictions. We have pending registrations
for the
MarketAxess

®

name and logo in several other foreign jurisdictions. In
addition, we have obtained U.S. federal registration for
the marks
AutoSpotting

®

,
BondLink

®

,
FrontPage

®

,
Actives

®

and associated designs. “Corporate BondTicker” is a
trademark we use, but it has not been registered.

In addition to our efforts to register our intellectual
property, we believe that factors such as the technological and
creative skills of our personnel, new service developments,
frequent enhancements and reliability with respect to our
services are essential to establishing and maintaining a
technology and market leadership position.

Government Regulation

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.S. and
elsewhere are subject to extensive regulation. As a matter of
public policy, regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of the
world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the
securities and other financial markets and with protecting the
interests of investors participating in those markets. Our
active broker-dealer subsidiaries fall within the scope of their
regulations.

Our electronic trading platform facilitates broker-dealers
completing trades with their institutional investor clients.
With limited exceptions, we are not a party to these trades, we
do not hold any bonds in inventory, we are not directly involved
in the clearance or settlement of trades and we take no custody
of client funds or securities.

Regulation of the U.S. Securities Industry and
    Broker-Dealers

In the U.S., the SEC is the governmental agency responsible for
the administration of the federal securities laws. Our
U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation, is registered
with the SEC as a broker-dealer. It is also a member of the
NASD, a self-regulatory organization to which most
broker-dealers belong. In addition, MarketAxess Corporation is a
member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which
provides certain protection for clients’ accounts in the
event of a liquidation of a broker-dealer to the extent any such
accounts are held by the broker-dealer.

Finally, MarketAxess Corporation is registered with certain
states and the District of Columbia as a broker-dealer. The
states and the District of Columbia are responsible for the
administration of their respective “blue sky” laws,
rules and regulations.

Regulation of the

Non-U.S.

Securities
    Industries and Investment Service Providers

The securities industry and financial markets in the U.K., the
European Union and elsewhere are subject to extensive
regulation. MarketAxess Europe Limited may fall within the scope
of those regulations depending upon the extent to which it is
characterized as providing a regulated investment service.

Our principal regulator in the U.K. is the FSA. Our subsidiary,
MarketAxess Europe Limited, is registered as an alternative
trading system (“ATS”) with the FSA.

The securities industry in the member states of the European
Union is regulated by agencies in each member state. European
Union measures provide for the mutual recognition of regulatory
agencies and of prudential supervision making possible the grant
of a single authorization for providers of investment services
which, in general, is valid throughout the European Union. As an
FSA-approved ATS, MarketAxess Europe Limited receives the
benefit of this authorization.

In May 2003, we incorporated a Canadian subsidiary, MarketAxess
Canada Limited. It has applied for registration under the
Securities Act in Ontario and is in the process of seeking
approval for membership with the Investment Dealers Association
of Canada.


Employees

As of December 31, 2005, we had 182 employees, 149 of whom
were based in the U.S. and 33 of whom were based in the U.K.
None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We
consider our relationships with our employees to be good and
have not experienced any interruptions of operations due to
labor disagreements.

Company Information

Our Internet website address is www.marketaxess.com. Through our
Internet website, we will make available, free of charge, the
following reports as soon as reasonably practicable after
electronically filing them with, or furnishing them to, the SEC:
our annual report on
Form

10-K;

our
quarterly reports on
Form

10-Q;

our
current reports on
Form

8-K;

and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our
Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings are also available
through our Internet website. Our Internet website and the
information contained therein or connected thereto are not
intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

You may
also obtain copies of our reports without charge by writing to:

MarketAxess
Holdings Inc.

Broadway

New
York, NY 10005

Attn:
Investor Relations

In addition, our Board of Directors has standing Audit,
Compensation and Nominating Committees. Each of these committees
has a written charter approved by our Board of Directors. Our
Board of Directors has also adopted a set of Corporate
Governance Guidelines. Copies of each committee charter, along
with the Corporate Governance Guidelines, are also posted on our
website. The information on our corporate website is not
incorporated by reference into this report.

We have obtained federal registration of the
MarketAxess

®

name and logo, as well as for the marks
Auto-Spotting

®

,
BondLink

®

,
Actives

®

and
FrontPage

®

.
Other trademarks and service marks appearing in this annual
report on
Form

10-K

are the
property of their respective holders.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

Risks Related to the Potential Conflicts of Interest With Our
Broker-Dealer Clients

Who Are Also Our Stockholders

We are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, nine of
which were also our stockholders as of December 31, 2005,
who are not restricted from buying and selling fixed-income
securities, directly or through their own proprietary or
third-party platforms, with institutional investors.

We rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide product and
liquidity on our electronic trading platform by posting bond
prices on our platform for bonds in their inventory and
responding to institutional investor client inquiries. Although
each broker-dealer client is currently a party to an agreement
with us, the obligations of each broker-dealer under these
agreements are minimal. None of these agreements is exclusive
and broker-dealers may terminate such agreements and/or enter
into, and in some cases have entered into, similar agreements
with our competitors. For example, some of our broker-dealer
clients are also clients of Thompson TradeWeb, a multi-dealer to
institutional investor trading platform that operates an online
corporate bond trading platform.

Our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities
directly with their clients through traditional bond trading
methods, including telephone conversations,

e-mail

messaging and
other electronic means of communication. Currently, the
preponderance of trading of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds
still occurs using traditional bond trading methods. Most of our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are


involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading
platforms or other distribution channels, as trading
participants and/or as equity holders, and such ventures or
newly created ventures may compete with us and our electronic
trading platform now and in the future.

Some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic
trading networks or have announced their intention to explore
the development of electronic trading networks. These competing
trading platforms may offer some features that we do not
currently offer. Furthermore, our broker-dealer clients have
made, and may in the future continue to make, investments in
businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us,
including, either individually or collectively, organizing or
investing in a separate company similar to us for the purpose of
competing with us or pursuing corporate opportunities that might
be attractive to us. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that
such broker-dealers’ primary commitments will not be to one
of our competitors.

Any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platform by
our broker-dealer clients would reduce the number of different
bond issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on
our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our
platform by our institutional investor clients. The occurrence
of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We derive a significant percentage of our total revenues,
and an even greater percentage of our commissions, from
broker-dealer clients who are also our stockholders.

We have historically earned a substantial portion of our
commissions from the nine broker-dealer clients that were our
stockholders as of December 31, 2005. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, $36.6 million or 54.7% of our
commissions, for the year ended December 31, 2004,
$39.3 million or 57.7% of our commissions, and for the year
ended December 31, 2003, $33.0 million or 62.5% of our
commissions were generated by these nine broker-dealer clients.
None of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or otherwise
obligated to continue to use our electronic trading platform.
Reduced involvement of these broker-dealer clients due to their
loss of a right to designate a member of our Board of Directors
or the potential reduction in the level of their equity
ownership if these entities should sell shares of our common
stock, may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our
electronic trading platform and other services, which could
negatively impact the use of our platform by our institutional
investor clients. The loss of, or a significant reduction of,
participation on our platform by these broker-dealer clients may
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Several of our broker-dealer clients or their affiliates
beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding
common stock. These broker-dealer clients have strategic
interests that differ from those of our other
stockholders.

As of December 31, 2005, nine of our broker-dealer clients
or their affiliates owned, in the aggregate, a significant
percentage of our outstanding common stock. These broker-dealer
clients have strategic interests that are different from ours
and those of our other stockholders. For example, in their
capacity as broker-dealer clients, they would presumably favor
lower commissions and/or commission caps. Furthermore, as
stockholders in other consortia that have developed competitive
electronic trading networks or have announced their intention to
explore the development of competitive electronic trading
networks, they may decide to direct some or all of their
electronic trading business to one or more of our competitors.
While these actions, if taken, would presumably reduce our
revenues and our market capitalization and, therefore, the value
of their ownership position in us, there can be no assurance
that they will not decide to take such actions for their own
strategic reasons.

We are not a party to any voting agreement with any of our
stockholders and are not aware of any voting agreements among
our broker-dealer clients; however, they may enter into a voting
agreement in the future or otherwise vote in a similar manner.
To the extent that all of these broker-dealer clients or their
affiliates vote


similarly, they will be able to determine decisions requiring
approval by our stockholders. As a result, they or their
affiliates may be able to:

•

control the composition of our Board of Directors through their
    ability to nominate directors and vote their shares to elect
    them;

•

control our management and policies; and

•

determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions,
    including changes in control that may be beneficial to other
    stockholders.

As a result of these factors, we may be less likely to pursue
relationships with strategic partners who are not stockholders
of ours, which could impede our ability to expand our business
and strengthen our competitive position. Furthermore, these
factors could also limit stockholder value by preventing a
change in control or sale of MarketAxess.

Future sales of shares by our broker-dealer clients who
are also our stockholders could cause the market price of our
common stock to drop significantly and/or limit our ability to
utilize certain income tax benefits.

Subject to compliance with the federal securities laws, all of
the shares of common stock and non-voting common stock owned by
our broker-dealer clients are eligible for resale in the public
market, subject, in the case of “affiliates” of
MarketAxess, to volume limitations on resale.

In addition, to the extent any future sales of common stock by
our broker-dealer clients result in an “ownership
change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal
Revenue Code (“Section 382”), we may not be able
to realize certain income tax benefits resulting from our net
operating loss carryforwards existing at the date of such
ownership change. An ownership change as defined in
Section 382 occurs when there is a 50% or greater change in
a company’s stock ownership over a rolling three-year
period. For more information regarding these potential income
tax benefits and our net operating loss carryforwards, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Revenues and
Expenses — Income Taxes.”

Risks Related to Our Business

We face substantial competition that could reduce our
market share and harm our financial performance.

The fixed-income securities industry generally, and the
electronic financial services markets in which we operate in
particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to
intensify in the future. We will continue to compete with bond
trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their
institutional investor clients over the telephone or
electronically. In addition, our current and prospective
competitors are numerous and include:

Many of our current and potential competitors are more
established and substantially larger than we are, and have
substantially greater market presence, as well as greater
financial, engineering, technical, marketing


and other resources. These competitors may aggressively reduce
their pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a
leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses
with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity
securities. In addition, many of our competitors offer a wider
range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger
customer bases than we do. Some of them may be able to respond
more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and
customer requirements than we can and may be able to undertake
more extensive promotional activities.

Any combination of our competitors may enter into joint ventures
or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by
us. Current and new competitors can launch new platforms at a
relatively low cost. Others may acquire the capabilities
necessary to compete with us through acquisitions. We expect
that we will potentially compete with a variety of companies
with respect to each product or service we offer. If we are not
able to compete successfully in the future, our business,
financial condition and results of operations would be adversely
affected.

We have experienced losses and may incur losses in the
future.

Our losses were $16.8 million from the period of inception
through December 31, 2000, $65.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2001 and $36.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2002. For the year ended
December 31, 2003, we reported net income of
$4.2 million, for the year ended December 31, 2004, we
reported net income of $57.6 million, which included
$46.1 million in income which was recognized upon our
reassessment of the likelihood of realization of a portion of
our deferred tax assets, and for the year ended
December 31, 2005 we reported net income of
$8.1 million. We expect that our expenses will increase in
the near term as we continue to expand our business and in order
to meet the requirements related to being a public company. We
cannot predict whether we will be able to sustain profitability
and we may incur losses in future periods. If we are not able to
sustain profitability, our stock price may decline.

Neither the sustainability of our current level of
business nor our historical growth can be assured. Even if we do
experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow
profitably.

The use of our electronic trading platform is relatively new.
The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our
ability to maintain and expand the network of broker-dealer and
institutional investor clients that use our electronic trading
platform. Our business strategy also depends on increasing the
use of our platform by these clients. Individuals at
broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting
interests which may discourage their use of our platform.

Our growth is also dependent on our ability to diversify our
revenue base. We currently derive a majority of our revenues
from secondary trading in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds.
Our trading volume for U.S. high-grade corporate bonds has
remained relatively constant since 2004 and our commissions from
such trading have also remained relatively constant for the year
ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the year ended
December 31, 2004. Our long-term business strategy is
dependent on expanding our service offerings and increasing our
revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. We
cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result
in increased revenues or continued profitability.

Our plans to pursue other opportunities for revenue growth are
at an early stage, and we cannot assure you that our plans will
be successful or that we will actually proceed with them as
described.

Because we have a limited operating history, it is
difficult to evaluate our business and prospects.

MarketAxess was formed in April 2000 and pilot trading on our
electronic trading platform began in October 2000, with the
commercial launch of the platform in January 2001. As a result,
we have only a limited operating history from which you can
evaluate our business and our prospects. We will encounter risks
and difficulties frequently experienced by early-stage companies
in rapidly evolving industries, such as the electronic financial
services industry. These risks and difficulties include, but are
not limited to, our ability to:

•

attract and retain broker-dealers and institutional investors on
    a cost-effective basis;

•

expand and enhance reliable and cost-effective product and
    service offerings to our clients;


If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing
our business strategy, our business, financial condition and
results of operations may suffer.

Decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets
generally or on our platform could harm our business and
profitability.

We have experienced decreases in overall trading volume in
certain periods, and may experience decreases in trading volume
in the future. Declines in the overall volume of fixed-income
securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as
declines in interest rate volatility, result in lower revenues
from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading
platform and fees generated from related activities.

Likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the
fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in
trading volume to segments of clients which we have not
penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform
and, consequently, lower commissions and other revenue. During
periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of
electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease
dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain
additional information during the trade process through
conversations with broker-dealers. In addition, during rapidly
moving markets, broker-dealers may be less likely to post prices
electronically.

A decline in trading volumes on our platform for any reason may
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations because our commissions are
largely variable but a significant portion of our costs is fixed.

If we experience significant fluctuations in our operating
results or fail to meet revenues and earnings expectations, our
stock price may fall rapidly and without advance notice.

Due to our limited operating history, our evolving business
model and the unpredictability of our industry, we may
experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. We
base our current and future expense levels and our investment
plans on estimates of future revenues and future rate of growth.
Our expenses and investments are, to a large extent, fixed and
we expect that these expenses will increase in the future. We
may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our
revenues fall short of our expectations.

Our revenues and operating results may also fluctuate due to
other factors, including:


As a result, our operating results may fluctuate significantly
on a quarterly basis, which could result in decreases in our
stock price.

We may not be able to introduce enhanced versions of our
electronic trading platform, new services and/or service
enhancements in a timely or acceptable manner, which could harm
our competitive position.

Our business environment is characterized by rapid technological
change, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands
and evolving industry standards. Our future will depend on our
ability to develop and introduce new features to, and new
versions of, our electronic trading platform. The success of new
features and versions depends on several factors, including the
timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the
feature or version. In addition, the market for our electronic
trading platform may be limited if prospective clients require
customized features or functions that we are unable or unwilling
to provide. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the
demand for new services, products and technologies and develop
new features and enhanced versions of our electronic trading
platform that achieve widespread levels of market acceptance on
a timely and cost-effective basis, it could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

As we enter new markets, we may not be able to
successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and
marketing strategy for use in those markets.

Our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platform
to enter new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able
to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology
for use in other markets. Even if we do adapt our software and
technology, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract
clients and compete successfully in any such new markets. We
cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of
any of these opportunities will be successful. If these efforts
are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings,
which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of
our common stock. Furthermore, these efforts may divert
management attention or inefficiently utilize our resources.

Rapid technological changes may render our technology
obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and
services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor
clients.

We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading
platform. The electronic financial services industry is
characterized by increasingly complex systems and
infrastructures and new business models. If new industry
standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems
and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our
existing business may be harmed. Our future success will depend
on our ability to:

•

enhance our existing products and services;

•

develop and/or license new products and technologies that
    address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective
    clients; and

•

respond to technological advances and emerging industry
    standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.

Developing our electronic trading platform and other technology
entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new
technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our
electronic trading platform,


information databases and network infrastructure to
broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or
emerging industry standards. For example, our electronic trading
platform functionality that allows searches and inquiries on
bond pricing and availability is a critical part of our service,
and it may become

out-of

-date or
insufficient from our broker-dealer clients’ or
institutional investor clients’ perspective and in relation
to the inquiry functionality of our competitors’ systems.
If we face material delays in introducing new services, products
and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor
clients may forego the use of our products and use those of our
competitors.

Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking or
telecommunications technologies may require us to devote
substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. We
cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement
new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and
transaction-processing systems to client requirements or
emerging industry standards. We cannot assure you that we will
be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market
conditions or client requirements.

We depend on third-party suppliers for key products and
services.

We rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our
trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and
other equipment, and related support and maintenance. We cannot
assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue
to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective
manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately
expand their services to meet our needs. If we are unable to
make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical
products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product
or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing
service provider, our business, financial condition and results
of operations could be materially adversely affected.

In particular, we depend on a third-party vendor for our
corporate bond reference database. Disruptions in the services
provided by that third party to us, including as a result of
their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products
that are critical to the success of our business, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

We also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on
third parties for various computer and communications systems,
such as telephone companies, online service providers, data
processors, and software and hardware vendors. Other third
parties provide, for instance, our data center,
telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems
and software licensing, support and maintenance services. Any
interruption in these or other third-party services or a
deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of
our service. We cannot be certain of the financial viability of
all of the third parties on which we rely.

We license software from third parties, much of which is
integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. We
also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality
assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading
platform and other systems. Continued access to these licensors
and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to
alternative software and information technology contractors is
important to our operations. Adverse changes in any of these
relationships could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service,
confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing
and other terms in our contracts with our service providers.
These contracts usually have multi-year terms. However, there is
no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we
will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements
with alternate service providers on competitive terms. Further,
the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to
terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and
our competitors advance their own operations and contracts.

Our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our
electronic trading platform, systems and infrastructure; our
computer systems may suffer failures, capacity constraints and
business interruptions that could increase our operating costs
and cause us to lose clients.

In order to be successful, we must provide reliable, real-time
access to our electronic trading platform for our broker-dealer
and institutional investor clients. If our electronic trading
platform is hampered by slow


delivery times, unreliable service or insufficient capacity, our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may decide to
stop using our platform, which would have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

As our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to
improve and upgrade our electronic trading platform and
infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order
message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new
and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of
new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and
ancillary products and services. The expansion of our electronic
trading platform and infrastructure has required, and will
continue to require, substantial financial, operational and
technical resources. These resources will typically need to be
committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading
volumes and order messages. We cannot assure you that our
estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be
accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate
actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or
degradation of performance. Furthermore, we use new technologies
to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these
new technologies also entails technical, financial and business
risks. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement
new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading
platform, technology and systems to the requirements of our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients or to emerging
industry standards. The inability of our electronic trading
platform to accommodate increasing trading volume and order
messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business.

We cannot assure you that we will not experience systems
failures. Our electronic trading platform, computer and
communication systems and other operations are vulnerable to
damage, interruption or failure as a result of, among other
things:

In the event that any of our systems, or those of our
third-party providers, fail or operate slowly, it may cause any
one or more of the following to occur:

Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or
decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures
caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage
our reputation, business and brand name and lead our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients to decrease or
cease their use of our electronic trading platform.


In these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster
recovery plans may not be adequate. Similarly, although many of
our contracts with our service providers require them to have
disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be
adequate or implemented properly. In addition, our business
interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for
losses that may occur.

We also cannot assure you that we have sufficient personnel to
properly respond to system problems. We internally support and
maintain many of our computer systems and networks, including
those underlying our electronic trading platform. Our failure to
monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary,
to find a replacement for this technology in a timely and
cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

If our security measures are breached and unauthorized
access is obtained to our electronic trading platform,
broker-dealers and institutional investors may become hesitant
to use, or reduce or stop their use of, our trading
platform.

Our electronic trading platform involves the storage and
transmission of our clients’ proprietary information. The
secure transmission of confidential information over public
networks is a critical element of our operations. Security
breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information,
litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are
breached as a result of third-party action, employee error,
malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains
unauthorized access to trading or other confidential
information, our reputation could be damaged, our business may
suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because
techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage
computer systems change frequently and generally are not
recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to
anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive
measures. If an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our
security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of
our security measures could be harmed and could cause
broker-dealers and clients to reduce or stop their use of our
electronic trading platform. We may be required to expend
significant resources to protect against the threat of security
breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm
and litigation, caused by any breaches. Although we intend to
continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we
cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient.

We may not be able to protect our intellectual property
rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors
to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platform. This
could adversely affect our ability to compete.

Intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to
compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property
rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our
technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent,
copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States
and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements,
third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other
contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our
intellectual property rights. We attempt to negotiate beneficial
intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and
also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators
to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the
confidentiality of our proprietary information. We have filed 24
patent applications covering aspects of our technology and/or
business, but can make no assurances that any such patents will
be issued or, if issued, will protect our business and processes
from competition. Additionally, laws and our contractual terms
may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or
theft by third parties. For instance, a third party might
reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our technology
without our permission and without our knowledge, thereby
infringing our rights and allowing competitors to duplicate or
replicate our products. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that
these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors
from independently developing technologies that are
substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.

We may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert
against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but
lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex
and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. In
addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the
future provide our services may not protect software and
intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of
the United States.


Defending against intellectual property infringement or
other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business.
If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we
could be required to redesign our products, pay royalties or
enter into license agreements with third parties.

In the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based
on allegations of infringement or other violations of
intellectual property rights. As the number of participants in
our market increases and the number of patents and other
intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility
of an intellectual property claim against us grows. Although we
have never been the subject of a material intellectual property
dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert
in the future that our technology or the manner in which we
operate our business violates its intellectual property rights.
From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we
may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to
the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that
third parties may assert intellectual property claims against
us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our
business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases
and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. Any
claims, whether with or without merit, could:

We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert
infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our
electronic trading platform or any of our other current or
future products or services or that any such assertion will not
require us to cease providing such services or products, try to
redesign our products or services, enter into royalty
arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could
be costly to us. Any of these events could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

If we are unable to enter into additional marketing and
strategic alliances or if our current strategic alliances are
not successful, we may not maintain the current level of trading
or generate increased trading on our trading platform.

From time to time, we may enter into strategic alliances that
will enable us to enter new markets, provide products or
services that we do not currently offer or otherwise enhance the
value of our platform to our clients.

Entering into joint ventures and alliances entails risks,
including:

•

difficulties in developing and expanding the business of newly
    formed joint ventures;

•

exercising influence over the activities of joint ventures in
    which we do not have a controlling interest; and

•

potential conflicts with or among our joint venture or alliance
    partners.

We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into new
strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us, or at
all. These arrangements, if entered into, may not generate the
expected number of new clients or increased trading volume we
are seeking. Unsuccessful joint ventures or alliances could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.


If we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or
technologies, we may be unable to integrate them with our
business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may
not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for
any such transactions.

If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire
or make investments in businesses, products or technologies that
we believe are strategic. We may not be able to identify,
negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment
successfully. Even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in
a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and
investments involve a number of risks, including:

These factors could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or
multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to
time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or
investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such
negotiations could result in significant diversion of management
time, as well as

out-of

-pocket costs.

The consideration paid in connection with an investment or
acquisition also affects our financial results. If we were to
proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the
consideration included cash, we could be required to use a
substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any
acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or
other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or
other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings
per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in
the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of
acquired in-process research and development costs, and
restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and
other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests,
which could result in future impairment charges.

We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of
any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our
business plan in a timely manner.

Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our
executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Richard
M. McVey, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of
our Board of Directors. The terms of Mr. McVey’s
employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to
work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any
time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of
non-vested equity options. Any loss or interruption of
Mr. McVey’s services or that of one or more of our
other executive officers or key personnel could result in our
inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our
business strategy.


Because competition for our employees is intense, we may
not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees
we need to support our business.

We strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to
establish and maintain long-term relationships with our
broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. Our ability to
provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well
as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends
in large part upon our employees. We must attract and retain
highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is
intense, especially for software engineers with extensive
experience in designing and developing software and
Internet-related services, hardware engineers, technicians,
product managers and senior sales executives.

The market for qualified personnel has grown more competitive in
recent periods as electronic commerce has experienced growth.
Domestic and international labor markets have tightened in
concert with the continuing recovery in general economic
conditions. Many of the companies with which we compete for
experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and
are longer established in the marketplace. In addition, in
making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet,
high-technology and financial services industries, job
candidates often consider the total compensation package
offered, including the value of the stock options they are to
receive in connection with their employment. Significant
volatility in the price of our common stock may adversely affect
our ability to attract or retain key employees. The
implementation of SFAS 123(R) relating to the expensing of
share based compensation may discourage us from granting the
size or type of stock option awards that job candidates may
require to join our company.

We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts
to recruit and retain the required personnel. The failure to
attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current
personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

Our business is subject to increasingly extensive
government and other regulation and our relationships with our
broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory
scrutiny.

The financial industry is extensively regulated by many
governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations,
including the SEC and the NASD. As a matter of public policy,
these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the
integrity of the securities and other financial markets and
protecting the interests of investors in those markets. These
regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret,
investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules
and regulations.

Most aspects of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are highly
regulated, including:

We cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and
employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules
and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws,
rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines,
cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions
of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our
membership in the NASD and registration as a broker-dealer.

We have two major operating subsidiaries, MarketAxess
Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited. MarketAxess
Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited are subject to U.S.
and U.K. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as an
alternative trading system, respectively, which prohibit
repayment of borrowings from the Company or affiliates, paying
cash dividends, making loans to the Company or affiliates or
otherwise entering into transactions that result in a
significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial
resources, without prior notification to or approval from such
subsidiary’s principal regulator.


Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies,
including the rules relating to the maintenance of specific
levels of net capital applicable to our broker-dealer
subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. Our
industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory
changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in
the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which
could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause
the development of affected markets to become impractical. In
addition, as we expand our business into new markets, it is
likely that we will be subject to additional laws, rules and
regulations. We cannot predict the extent to which any future
regulatory changes may adversely affect our business and
operations.

Our disclosed trading system has not been subjected to
regulation as an alternative trading system under
Regulation ATS. A determination by the SEC to treat our
trading platform as an alternative trading system subject to
Regulation ATS, or a decision by us to reactivate our
anonymous trading platform, which is regulated as an alternative
trading system, would subject us to additional reporting
obligations and other limitations on the conduct of our
business, many of which could be material.

As an enterprise founded and historically controlled by
broker-dealer competitors, we may be subject to ongoing
regulatory scrutiny of our business to a degree that is not
likely to be experienced by some of our competitors. In November
2000, we received a Civil Investigative Demand from the
U.S. Department of Justice in connection with the Antitrust
Division’s investigation of electronic bond and other
consortia trading systems. After compliance with all information
requests, we received notice from the U.S. Department of
Justice in 2004 that the investigation was officially closed. As
the use of our electronic trading platform grows and represents
a greater share of the trading volume of fixed-income
securities, the risk that other regulatory investigations could
commence in the future increases. Additionally, the involvement
of individuals affiliated with certain of our broker-dealer
clients on our Board of Directors and as stockholders may
subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. At
any time, the outcome of investigations and other regulatory
scrutiny could lead to compulsory changes to our business model,
conduct or practices, or our relationships with our
broker-dealer clients, or additional governmental scrutiny or
private lawsuits against us, any of which could materially harm
our revenues, impair our ability to provide access to the
broadest range of fixed-income securities and impact our ability
to grow and compete effectively, particularly as we implement
new initiatives designed to enhance our competitive position.

The activities and consequences described above may result in
significant distractions to our management and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

We expect to continue to expand our operations outside of
the United States; however, we may face special economic and
regulatory challenges that we may not be able to meet.

We operate an electronic trading platform in Europe and we plan
to further expand our operations throughout Europe and other
regions. There are certain risks inherent in doing business in
international markets, particularly in the financial services
industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions
outside the United States. These risks include:


•

seasonal reductions in business activity; and

•

potentially adverse tax consequences.

Our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely
affect our business and limit our ability to expand our
international operations, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability
to obtain additional financing if we need it.

Our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate
funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory
requirements. Historically, we have satisfied these needs
primarily through equity financing from certain of our
broker-dealer clients, our acquisition of Trading Edge, Inc.,
internally generated funds and, most recently, our initial
public offering. Although we believe that our available cash
resources are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated
liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at
least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to
raise additional funds to, among other things:

We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in
amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our existing
investors, including our broker-dealer clients and their
affiliates, have no obligation to make further investments in
us, and we do not anticipate that they will do so. If sufficient
funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable
to us, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of
acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or
products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be
significantly limited. These limitations could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

The requirements of being a public company may strain our
resources, divert management’s attention and affect our
ability to attract and retain qualified board members.

As a public company, we are subject to the reporting
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 and NASDAQ rules promulgated in response to the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirements of these rules and
regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance
costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or
costly and may place undue strain on our systems and resources.
The Securities Exchange Act requires, among other things, that
we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to
our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act
requires, among other things, that we maintain effective
disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for
financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and
internal control over financial reporting, significant resources
and management oversight are required. As a result,
management’s attention may be diverted from other business
concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult
for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of
our Board of Directors. Additionally, we expect these rules and
regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us
to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be
required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially
higher costs to obtain coverage. NASDAQ rules also require that
a majority of our Board of Directors and all of certain
sub-committees of the Board of Directors consist of


independent directors. We cannot assure you that our Board of
Directors will continue to include a majority of independent
directors to comply with the requirements of these rules.

Compliance with changing laws and regulations relating to
corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted, and
will continue to result, in the incurrence of additional
expenses associated with being a public company.

New and changing laws and regulations, including the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, impose stricter corporate governance
requirements and greater disclosure obligations. They have had
the effect of increasing the complexity and cost of our
corporate governance compliance, diverting the time and
attention of our management from revenue-generating activities
to compliance activities and increasing the risk of personal
liability for our board members and executive officers involved
in our corporate governance process. Our efforts to comply with
evolving laws and regulations has resulted in increased general
and administrative expenses and increased professional fees. In
addition, it may become more difficult and expensive for us to
obtain director and officer liability insurance. These laws and
regulations may impose obligations that will increase the legal
and financial costs required to consummate a business
combination and increase the time required to complete a
transaction. Furthermore, in order to meet the new corporate
governance and disclosure obligations, we have been taking, and
will continue to take, steps to improve our controls and
procedures and related corporate governance policies and
procedures to address compliance issues and correct any
deficiencies that we may discover.

While we believe that the procedures and policies that we have
in place are effective to address the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and other regulatory requirements, the expansion of our
operations and the growth of our business may require us to
modify and expand our disclosure controls and procedures and
related corporate governance policies. Any unanticipated
difficulties in preparing for and implementing these and other
corporate governance and reporting reforms could result in
material delays in compliance or significantly increase our
costs. Also, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
fully comply with these new laws and regulations. If we fail to
prepare for and implement the reforms required by these new laws
and regulations on a timely basis, our business, financial
condition and results of operations could be negatively
impacted, our reputation may be harmed and our stock price may
be adversely affected.

We are subject to the risks of litigation and securities
laws liability.

Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients,
involve substantial risks of liability. Dissatisfied clients may
make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly
settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their
service providers. We and our clients may become subject to
these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our
electronic trading platform and services provided by us. We
could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even
those without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuits or
claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risks Related to Our Industry

If the use of electronic trading platforms does not
continue to increase, we will not be able to achieve our
business objectives.

The success of our business plan depends on our ability to
create an electronic trading platform for a wide range of
fixed-income products. Historically, fixed-income securities
markets operated through telephone communications between
institutional investors and broker-dealers. The utilization of
our products and services depends on the acceptance, adoption
and growth of electronic means of trading securities. We cannot
assure you that the growth and acceptance of electronic means of
trading securities will continue.


Economic, political and market factors beyond our control
could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and
our profitability could suffer.

The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky
and volatile and is directly affected by many national and
international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of
these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and
global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading
volume. These events could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. These
factors include:

Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced
activity and prices in the securities markets generally. Our
revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly
during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading
volume in the U.S. and global financial markets.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.

Properties

Our corporate headquarters and principal U.S. offices are
located at 140 Broadway, New York, New York, where we lease the
entire 42nd floor, which is approximately
24,000 square feet. This lease expires in February 2010. In
addition, we lease another 17,000 square feet at 350
Madison Avenue, New York, New York, which we currently sublet.
The lease expires in April 2011. MarketAxess Europe
Limited’s headquarters and principal offices are located at
71 Fenchurch Street, London, England, where we lease the entire
9th and 10th floors, which are approximately
4,700 square feet per floor. This lease expires in November
2015.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are not currently a party to any material legal proceedings.
We may be subject to various future claims and legal actions
arising in the ordinary course of business.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to security holders for a vote during
the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended December 31,
2005.


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities

Price Range

Our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ National Market
under the symbol “MKTX” on November 5, 2004.
Prior to that date, there was no public market for our common
stock. The high and low bid information for our common stock, as
reported by NASDAQ, was as follows:

High

Low

November 5, 2004 to December 31, 2004

$

24.41

$

12.75

January 1, 2005 to March 31, 2005

$

15.95

$

9.64

April 1, 2005 to June 30, 2005

$

13.87

$

9.83

July 1, 2005 to September 30, 2005

$

14.09

$

9.99

October 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005

$

13.14

$

10.64

On March 8, 2006, the last reported closing price of our
common stock on the NASDAQ National Market was $12.59.

Holders

There were approximately 114 holders of record of our common
stock as of March 8, 2006.

Dividend Policy

We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital
stock since our inception. We intend to retain future earnings
to finance the operation and expansion of our business and do
not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable
future.

In the event we decide to declare dividends on our common stock
in the future, such declaration will be subject to the
discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board may take into
account such matters as general business conditions, our
financial results, capital requirements, contractual, legal, and
regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by us to our
stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us and any such other
factors as our Board may deem relevant.

Use of Proceeds

On November 4, 2004, the registration statement relating to
our initial public offering
(No.

333-112718)

was declared effective. We received net proceeds from the sale
of the shares of our common stock in the offering of
$53.9 million, at an initial public offering price of
$11.00 per share, after deducting underwriting discounts
and commissions and estimated offering expenses.

Except for salaries, and reimbursements for travel expenses and
other

out-of

-pocket
costs incurred in the ordinary course of business, none of the
proceeds from the offering have been paid by us, directly or
indirectly, to any of our directors or officers or any of their
associates, or to any persons owning ten percent or more of
our outstanding stock or to any of our affiliates. We have
invested the proceeds from the offering in cash and cash
equivalents and short-term marketable securities.


Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities

Between January 2003 and October 2004, we issued an aggregate of
67,387 shares of common stock to eight former employees upon
exercise of vested stock options. The shares were issued at an
average price of approximately $3.12 per share for total
proceeds of $0.2 million. In addition, between January 2003
and October 2004, we granted 2,458,302 stock options with a
weighted average price of $7.52 to employees, non-employee
directors and consultants.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
Plans

Please see the section entitled “Equity Compensation Plan
Information” in Item 12.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

We did not repurchase any of our securities during the quarter
ended December 31, 2005.


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The selected statement of operations data for each of the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the selected
balance sheet data as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 have
been derived from our audited financial statements included
elsewhere in this
Form

10-K.

The
selected statement of operations data for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the balance sheet data as
of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, have been derived from
our audited financial statements not included in this
Form

10-K.


As of December 31,






(In thousands)

Balance Sheet Data:

Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments and
    Securities-available-for-sale

$

118,145

$

103,449

$

36,182

$

23,806

$

37,200

Working capital (7)

120,013

103,996

31,884

20,140

30,588

Total assets

190,462

175,646

57,183

39,437

56,042

Total redeemable convertible preferred stock

—

—

159,664

148,209

128,527

Year Ended December 31,






(In billions)

Trading Volume Data:

U.S. high-grade

$

177.6

$

183.5

$

140.3

$

39.4

$

10.0

European high-grade

73.4

76.5

31.8

4.2

0.2

Other(1)

48.2

38.1

20.1

4.8

1.5

Total

$

299.2

$

298.1

$

192.2

$

48.4

$

11.7


$2.1 million in tax credits and an additional tax benefit
    for operating losses of $1.5 million. Without giving effect
    to the reduction of the valuation allowance, tax credits and the
    additional benefit for operating losses, our net income for the
    year ended December 31, 2004 would have been
    $7.9 million.

(6)

Includes the effect of dividends accrued on our redeemable
    convertible preferred stock. We have not included dilutive net
    income (loss) per common share for periods in which we had a net
    loss, as the effect would have been anti-dilutive. Upon
    completion of our initial public offering, all outstanding
    shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock and convertible
    preferred stock were converted into 14,484,493 shares of
    common stock and 4,266,310 shares of non-voting common
    stock.

(7)

Working capital is defined as current assets minus current
    liabilities. Current assets consist of Cash and cash
    equivalents, Short-term investments, Securities and cash
    provided as collateral, Accounts receivable, and Prepaid
    expenses. Current liabilities consist of Accrued employee
    compensation, Deferred license revenue, and Accounts payable,
    accrued expenses and other liabilities.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations

You should read the following discussion and analysis of our
financial condition and results of operations in conjunction
with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated
financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in
this Form

10-K.

In
addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis
contains forward-looking statements that involve risks,
uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ
materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking
statements as a result of certain factors, including those set
forth under “Item 1A. — Risk Factors That
May Affect Future Results” and elsewhere in this
Form

10-K.

Executive Summary

MarketAxess operates one of the leading platforms for the
electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of
fixed-income securities. Through our platform, 657 active
institutional investor client firms (firms that executed at
least one trade through our electronic trading platform between
January 2005 and December 2005) can access the aggregate
liquidity provided by the collective interest of our 25
broker-dealer clients in buying or selling bonds through our
platform. Our active institutional investor clients include
investment advisers, mutual funds, insurance companies, public
and private pension funds, bank portfolios and hedge funds. We
also provide data and analytical tools that help our clients
make trading decisions and we facilitate the trading process by
electronically communicating order information between trading
counterparties. Our revenues are primarily generated from the
trading of U.S. and European high-grade corporate bonds.

Our multi-dealer trading platform allows our institutional
investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable
bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades
with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that
choose to respond. We offer our broker-dealer clients a solution
that enables them to efficiently reach our institutional
investor clients for the distribution and trading of bonds. In
addition to U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, European
high-grade corporate bonds and emerging markets bonds, including
both high-grade and non-investment grade debt, we also offer our
clients the ability to trade crossover and high-yield bonds,
agency bonds, new issues and credit default swap indices.

The majority of our revenues are derived from commissions for
trades executed on our platform that are billed to our
broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. We also derive
revenues from information and user access fees, license fees and
other income. Our expenses consist of employee compensation and
benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and
communication expenses, professional and consulting fees,
marketing and advertising and other general and administrative
expenses.

Based on our limited operating history, we will encounter risks
and difficulties frequently experienced by companies in rapidly
evolving industries, such as the electronic financial services
industry. These risks and difficulties include, but are not
limited to, our ability to:

We operate in a highly competitive business environment. In
particular, we compete with bond trading business conducted over
the telephone between broker-dealers and their institutional
investor clients. Institutional investors have historically
purchased fixed-income securities by contacting bond sales
professionals at one or more broker-dealers by telephone or

e-mail

and inquiring
about the price and availability of individual bonds. This
remains the manner in which the majority of corporate bonds are
traded between institutional investors and broker-dealers. In
addition, there are numerous other electronic trading platforms


currently in existence. These include Thomson TradeWeb, a
multi-dealer to institutional investor trading platform, and
Bloomberg, which provides electronic trading functionality.

We believe that we compete favorably on the basis of several
factors, including the liquidity provided on our platform, the
magnitude and frequency of price improvement enabled by our
platform, the quality and speed of execution, total transaction
costs, technological capabilities, including the ease of use of
our trading platform, and the range of our products and
services. We also believe that we are well positioned to respond
to future challenges due to the experience and continuity of our
senior management team.

We seek to grow and diversify our revenues by capitalizing on
our status as the operator of a leading platform for the
electronic trading of corporate bonds and certain other types of
fixed-income securities. The key elements of our strategy are:

History

MarketAxess was formed in April 2000, and pilot trading on our
fully disclosed multi-dealer platform began in October 2000. We
launched trading on our electronic platform in January 2001 with
eight broker-dealer clients. Since that time, our broker-dealer
clients have grown to include 25 of the leading securities
firms. Our broker-dealer clients currently are: ABN Amro, Banc
of America Securities, Barclays, Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas,
Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank AG,
DZ Bank AG, First Tennessee National, Goldman Sachs,
HSBC, ING Financial Markets, Jeffries & Company,
JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Royal
Bank of Canada, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander Investment
Securities, Société Générale, UBS and
Wachovia.

In March 2001, we acquired Trading Edge, Inc. (“Trading
Edge”), the operator of an anonymous trading platform for
U.S. corporate bonds, convertible bonds, municipal bonds
and emerging markets bonds.

In 2001, we decided to terminate the anonymous convertible and
municipal bond trading platforms and currently offer
U.S. corporate bond and emerging markets bond trading on a
fully disclosed basis only. However, the technology platform
developed by Trading Edge and obtained by us through the
acquisition is now the core of our product offerings.

In August 2001, one of our U.K. subsidiaries, MarketAxess Europe
Limited, began operations with secondary electronic trading in
U.S. dollar-denominated and Euro-denominated corporate
bonds.

In February 2002, we reorganized into MarketAxess Holdings Inc.,
a holding company that operates primarily through two operating
subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation and MarketAxess Europe
Limited. MarketAxess Corporation is registered as a
broker-dealer,and MarketAxess Europe Limited is regulated as an
alternative trading system, with applicable market regulators in
the U.S. and the U.K., respectively. In May


2003, we incorporated a Canadian subsidiary, MarketAxess Canada
Limited, which has applied for registration under the Securities
Act in Ontario and is in the process of seeking approval for
membership with the Investment Dealers Association of Canada.

We launched our information service, Corporate BondTicker, in
July 2002. Corporate BondTicker combines NASD TRACE data with
MarketAxess data and analytical tools to provide trading
professionals, research firms, rating and news agencies, and
other market participants with a comprehensive set of corporate
bond information.

We have been funded by nine of our 25 broker-dealer clients
through purchases of equity securities, primarily convertible
preferred stock, for a total purchase price of
$79.8 million. In addition, we acquired cash and
investments at fair value totaling $36.4 million in
connection with the acquisition of Trading Edge. We also
received net proceeds of $53.9 million from the sale of
shares of our common stock in our November 2004 initial public
offering. As of December 31, 2005, we had Cash and cash
equivalents and Securities-available-for-sale totaling
$118.1 million. We have no debt outstanding.

Critical Factors Affecting Our Industry and Our Company

Economic, Political and Market Factors

The global fixed-income securities industry is risky and
volatile and is directly affected by a number of economic,
political and market factors that may result in declining
trading volume. These factors could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. These factors include:

Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced
trading activity in the fixed-income securities markets
generally. Our revenues and profitability are likely to decline
during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading
volume in the U.S. and global fixed-income securities markets.

Competitive Landscape

The global fixed-income securities industry generally, and the
electronic financial services markets in which we engage in
particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to
intensify in the future. We will continue to compete with bond
trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their
institutional investor clients over the telephone or
electronically. In addition, our current and prospective
competitors are numerous and include:


•

electronic communications networks;

•

technology, software, information and media or other companies
    that have existing commercial relationships with broker-dealers
    or institutional investors; and

•

other electronic marketplaces that are not currently in the
    securities business.

Competitors, including companies in which some of our
broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed electronic
trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore
the development of electronic platforms that compete or will
compete with us.

In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors,
including:

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these
factors. Our trading volume and client acceptance have grown
significantly over the past three years and we continue to
proactively build technology solutions that serve the needs of
the credit markets.

Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and
integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor
clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems.
We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we
serve in the development of our platform, working closely with
our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs.

Many of our current and potential competitors are more
established and substantially larger than we are, and have a
substantially greater market presence, as well as greater
financial, engineering, technical, marketing and other
resources. These competitors may aggressively reduce their
pricing to enter into market segments in which we have a
leadership position today, potentially subsidizing any losses
with profits from trading in other securities. In addition, many
of our competitors offer a wide range of services, have broader
name recognition and have larger customer bases. Some of them
may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving
opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we
can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional
activities.

Any combination of our competitors or our current broker-dealer
clients may enter into joint ventures or consortia to provide
services similar to those provided by us. Others may acquire the
capabilities necessary to compete with us through acquisitions.
Significant consolidation has occurred in our industry and these
firms, as well as others that may undertake such consolidation
in the future, are potential competitors of ours.

Regulatory Environment

Our industry has been and is subject to continuous regulatory
changes and may become subject to new regulations or changes in
the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations, which
could require us to incur significant costs.

Our U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation, is a
registered broker-dealer with the SEC and is a member of the
NASD. Our U.K. subsidiary, MarketAxess Europe Limited, is
registered as an Alternative Trading System dealer with the FSA
in the U.K. Both U.S. and U.K. regulations prohibit repayment of
borrowings from these subsidiaries or their affiliates, paying
cash dividends, making loans to us or our affiliates or
otherwise entering into transactions that result in a
significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial
resources, without prior notification to or approval from such
regulated entity’s principal regulator.


The requirements of being a public company may strain our
resources, divert management’s attention and affect our
ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a
public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of
the Securities Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
NASDAQ rules promulgated in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The requirements of these rules and regulations have increased
our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities
more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place
undue strain on our systems and resources. In order to maintain
and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures and internal control over financial reporting,
significant resources and management oversight are required.

Rapid Technological Changes

We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading
platform. The electronic financial services industry is
characterized by increasingly complex systems and
infrastructures and new business models. If new industry
standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, systems
and electronic trading platform may become obsolete or our
existing business may be harmed. Our future success will depend
on our ability to:

•

enhance our existing products and services;

•

develop and/or license new products and technologies that
    address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our
    broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and prospective
    clients; and

•

respond to technological advances and emerging industry
    standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.

Trends in Our Business

The following table identifies changes in key financial measures
of our business for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003.

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Revenues

$

78,560

$

75,797

$

58,460

% change

3.6

%

29.7

%

212.6

%

Income before income taxes

11,561

17,316

4,402

Net income(1),(2)

8,142

57,587

4,212

Net increase in Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term
    investments and Securities available-for-sale

14,696

67,267

12,376

(1)

During the year ended December 31, 2005, we reduced the
    valuation allowance by $2.9 million to $15.2 million
    based on management’s current assessment of the factors
    impacting the valuation allowance previously recorded. Such
    factors include management’s expectation of continuing
    future profitable operations and judgment concerning future
    utilization of certain net operating losses that are subject to
    Section 382 limitations prior to their expiration. We
    believe it is likely, but subject to some uncertainty, that
    approximately 69% of the net operating losses will be utilized
    prior to their expiration in 2018. In addition, we adjusted the
    income tax rate used for recording the deferred tax assets,
    resulting in a decrease in the deferred tax assets and an
    increase in tax expense of $1.8 million. Without giving
    effect to the adjustment to the income tax rate used for
    recognizing the deferred tax assets and the reduction in the
    valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets, our net
    income for the year ended December 31, 2005 would have been
    $7.0 million.

(2)

During the year ended December 31, 2004, we reduced the
    valuation allowance relating to our deferred tax asset by
    $46.1 million, from $64.3 million to
    $18.1 million. Due to the fact that we had achieved
    multiple quarters of profitability, it became more likely than
    not that we would be able to utilize our net operating loss
    carryforwards. We also determined that it was more likely than
    not that all of the


temporary differences relating to the deductibility of certain
    expenses for book and tax purposes, including the
    warrant-related expense, would be utilized prior to expiration.
    We also recognized $2.1 million in tax credits and an
    additional tax benefit for operating losses of
    $1.5 million. Without giving effect to the reduction of the
    valuation allowance, tax credits and reversal, our net income
    for the year ended December 31, 2004 would have been
    $7.9 million.

The majority of our revenues are derived from commissions for
transactions in U.S. and European high-grade corporate bonds
executed on our platform. Most transactions executed on our
platform are originated by our active institutional investor
clients (firms that executed at least one trade through our
electronic trading platform between January 2005 and December
2005), consisting of 657 institutions as of December 31,
2005. The volume of transactions executed across our platform is
largely determined by the number of transaction inquiries
originated by our institutional investor clients and the
competitiveness of the prices they receive from our
broker-dealer clients in response to these inquiries.

The notional value of bonds traded over our platform has grown
rapidly since the commercial launch of the platform in January
2001 to $298.1 billion for the year ended December 31,
2004 but has remained relatively constant from 2004 to 2005,
with volume for the year ended December 31, 2005 totaling
$299.2 billion.

Our overall trading volume is impacted by volume in the
corporate bond market generally. Various factors that have
historically impacted overall corporate bond market trading
volume include the absolute level of interest rates, the
direction of interest rate movements, the level of new issues of
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, volatility of corporate
bond spreads versus U.S. Treasury securities, economic
conditions, the geopolitical environment, market psychology,
relative prices of competing asset classes and, more
importantly, changes in expectations about inflation. If
interest rates continue to rise, it is possible that our trading
volumes will continue to be adversely impacted. Because a
significant percentage of our revenue is tied directly to the
volume of securities traded on our platform, it is likely that a
general decline in trading volumes, regardless of the cause of
such decline, would reduce our revenues and have a significant
negative impact on our future profitability. We believe that
overall U.S. and European high-grade corporate bond trading
volumes declined between 2004 and 2005. Based on NASD TRACE
data, volume in the $100,000 to $5 million range, a trade size
category where NASD TRACE data reports the actual volume
numbers, fell by 12% between 2004 and 2005.

We are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, nine of which
were also stockholders as of December 31, 2005, who are not
restricted from buying and selling fixed-income securities,
directly or through their own proprietary or third party
platforms, with institutional investors. Our broker-dealer
clients buy and sell fixed-income securities directly with their
clients through traditional bond trading methods. Any reduction
in the use of our electronic trading platform by our
broker-dealer clients could reduce the number of different bond
issues and the volume of trading in those bond issues on our
platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platform
by our institutional investor clients. The occurrence of any of
the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

Commission Revenue Trends

Commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the
notional dollar volume of bonds traded on our platform and vary
based on the type and the maturity of the bond traded.
Commission revenues grew from $52.8 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003 to $68.2 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004 but declined to $66.9 million
for the year ended December 31, 2005.

We believe that there are five key variables that impact the
notional value of bonds traded on our platform and the amount of
commissions earned by us:

•

the number of institutional investor clients that participate on
    the platform and their willingness to originate transactions
    through the platform;

•

the number of broker-dealer clients on the platform and the
    competitiveness of the prices they provide to the institutional
    investor clients;


•

the number of markets for which we make trading available to our
    clients;

•

the overall level of activity in these markets; and

•

the level of commissions that we collect for trades executed
    through the platform.

Growth in the notional value of trades executed over our
platform has been driven by an increase in the base of
institutional investor clients. Our active institutional
investor client base (clients that executed trades through our
electronic trading platform in the preceding year) has increased
from 432 as of December 31, 2003, to 539 as of
December 31, 2004 and to 657 as of December 31, 2005.
However, as the number of institutional investor clients has
increased, our volumes have been and will in the future be
increasingly driven not only by new clients but also by existing
clients executing a larger portion of their trading activity
through our platform. We believe that our ability to continue to
deliver enhanced functionality and to provide reliable,
real-time access to our platform will be important factors in
increasing usage of the platform by existing clients.

Our broker-dealer client base has also increased from 18 as
of December 31, 2003, to 22 as of December 31, 2004
and to 25 as of December 31, 2005. We believe that
these broker-dealer clients represent the principal source of
secondary market liquidity in U.S. high-grade corporate
bonds, European high-grade corporate bonds emerging markets
bonds and the other markets in which we operate. Historical
growth in the number of our broker-dealer clients is not
necessarily indicative of future growth, although it is likely
that the majority of our future growth will be derived from
additional trading by existing broker-dealer clients rather than
from the addition of new broker-dealer clients.

We commenced commercial operations in January 2001 with the
launch of our U.S. high-grade corporate bond platform. We
expanded the markets we serve to emerging markets bonds and
high-yield bonds in March 2001 and to European high-grade
corporate bonds in September 2001. In 2005 we introduced trading
in agency bonds and in credit default swap indices. In the
future, we expect to leverage our existing technology and client
relationships to expand into new segments of the fixed-income
securities market.

As the notional value of bonds traded over our platform has
grown, we have also been more dependent on the overall level of
activity in the markets in which we operate. While we believe
that trading activity in the fixed-income markets in which we
operate has generally increased since our inception, there have
been periods, including the year ended December 31, 2005,
in which such trading activity was flat or actually declined. We
have also experienced fluctuations in trading volumes between
quarters as a result of general economic conditions as well as
factors specific to the fixed-income markets in which we
operate. These quarterly fluctuations have in the past created,
and may in the future create, some variability in our revenues.

Our average commission on trades executed over our platform,
excluding single-dealer inquiries, has declined from
$275 per million for the year ended December 31, 2003
to $229 per million for the years ended December 31,
2004 and 2005. Under the fee plans currently in place for
secondary U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading and
European high-grade corporate bond trading, the average fees per
million will decline as trading volumes increase. We also
anticipate that some reduction in average fees per million for
other products may occur in the future. Consequently, past
trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future
commissions.

Other Revenue Trends

In addition to the commissions discussed above, we have also
earned revenue from certain fees paid by institutional investor
and broker-dealer clients and income earned on investments.

Institutional investor clients trading U.S. high-grade
corporate bonds are charged a monthly user access fee for the
use of our platform. The fee, billed quarterly, is charged to
the client based on the number of the client’s users. To
encourage institutional investor clients to execute trades on
our U.S. high-grade corporate bond platform, we reduce
these information and user access fees for such clients once
minimum quarterly trading volumes are attained.


We charge information services fees for Corporate BondTicker to
our broker-dealer clients, institutional investor clients and
data-only subscribers. Corporate BondTicker combines NASD TRACE
data with MarketAxess data and analytical tools to provide a
comprehensive set of corporate bond information. The information
services fee is a flat monthly fee, based on the level of
service. We also generate information services fees from the
sale of bulk data to certain institutional investor clients and
data-only subscribers.

Broker-dealer clients, other than those that previously made
equity investments in the Company, pay an initial license fee,
which is typically due and payable upon execution of the
broker-dealer agreement. The initial license fee varies by
agreement and at a minimum is intended to cover the initial

set-up

costs incurred
to enable a broker-dealer to begin using the Company’s
electronic trading platform.

Revenues from these sources totaled $5.7 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003, $7.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2004 and $11.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2005. We anticipate that revenues
other than commissions will grow as we expand our data and
information services offerings.

Expense Trends

Our total expenses were $54.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003, $58.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 and $67.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005.

In the normal course of business, we incur the following
expenses:

We anticipate expense growth in the future, notably in employee
compensation and benefits as a result of increases in the number
of staff as we introduce new products. However, we believe that
operating leverage can be achieved by increasing volumes in
existing products and adding new products without substantial
additions to our infrastructure. In addition, beginning in the
2006 fiscal year, we are required, pursuant to
SFAS No. 123(R) “Share-Based Payment”
(“SFAS No. 123(R)”), which became effective
on January 1, 2006, to record compensation expense based on
the fair value of stock and options issued to employees.
Previously, we were only required to record compensation expense
to the extent that the fair value of our common stock exceeded
the exercise price of the options on the measurement date.

As a public company, we are subject to the requirements of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to incur
significant expenditures to comply with these requirements.


Revenues and Expenses

Revenues

We derive our revenues from commissions for trades executed over
our platform, information and user access fees, license fees,
interest income and other income. A table detailing the amount
and percentage of revenue generated from each of these sources
is provided below:

The following table shows the extent to which the changes in
revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were
attributable to increases and decreases in volumes, average
level of commissions charged, information services, license
fees, interest income and other factors:

Change from Prior Year

Year Ended

December 31,



(In thousands)

Volume increase

$


$

29,092

Average fee (decrease)

(1,506

)

(13,720

)

Information services

1,722

1,569

License Fees

(155

)

(1,002

)

Interest Income

2,278


Other



Total revenue increase

$

2,763

$

17,337

A table detailing the amount of revenues generated by the nine
broker-dealer clients that were also stockholders as of
December 31, 2005 (ABN Amro, Banc of America
Securities, Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche
Bank, JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers and UBS), and their respective
affiliates, as well


as the corresponding percentage of total revenues, is provided
below for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:

We derive a significant percentage of our total revenues, and an
even greater percentage of our commissions, from broker-dealer
clients that are also our stockholders. Commissions from these
broker-dealer stockholders have decreased as a percentage of
revenues primarily due to increased volume from existing
broker-dealer clients that are not stockholders as well as the
addition of new broker-dealer clients that are not stockholders.
Potential reduction in the level of their equity ownership if
these broker-dealer shareholders sell shares of our common stock
in the future, may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use
of our electronic trading platform and other services, which
could negatively impact the use of our platform by our
institutional investor clients and result in a reduction in our
revenues and net income.

Our current fee plans may result in a reduction in average fees
as trading volume increases. We may also introduce new plans
that could result in lower fees, particularly where we believe
that fee reductions will be offset by higher trading volumes.
Historical trading volume and revenue are not necessarily
indicative of future trading volume and revenue.

Commissions

While the vast majority of our commissions are generated from
transactions between a broker-dealer client and an institutional
investor client, we have generated a de minimis amount of our
commissions from transactions between two broker-dealer clients.
Commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the
notional dollar volume of bonds traded on our platform and vary
based on the type and the maturity of the bond traded. The
commission rates are generally set at levels that are based on a
number of factors, including fees charged by inter-dealer
brokers in the respective markets, average bid-offer spreads in
the products we offer, transaction costs through alternative
channels including the telephone, and the trading volume
executed through our platform by the broker-dealer completing
the trade. Under our transaction fee plans, bonds that are more
actively traded or that have shorter maturities are generally
charged lower commissions, while bonds that are less actively
traded or that have longer maturities generally command higher
commissions.


Overall trading volumes and the average fee per million traded
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are
detailed in the table below:

For volume reporting purposes, transactions in foreign
currencies are converted to U.S. dollars at the exchange
rates prevailing on the day the transactions were executed.

Single-dealer inquiries represent U.S. high-grade trades
for which no fees were charged in accordance with the new
U.S. high-grade fee plan that went into effect on
June 1, 2005.

U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bonds

Prior to August 2003, all of our broker-dealer clients operated
under a standard transaction fee plan for the secondary trading
of U.S. high-grade corporate bonds. Under the standard
transaction fee plan, commissions were calculated as a
percentage of the notional dollar volume of the bonds traded on
our platform, varied based on the type and maturity of the bond,
and were generally higher on bonds with longer maturities. Under
this plan, there was no fixed monthly fee and no cap on the
aggregate amount of commissions payable by a broker-dealer
client.

Our standard fee schedule for U.S. high-grade corporate
bonds was revised in August 2003 to provide lower average
transaction commissions for dealers that transacted higher
U.S. high-grade volumes through our platform, while at the
same time providing us with an element of fixed commissions over
the two-year term of the plans. One of the revised plans that
was well suited for our most active broker-dealer clients
included a fee cap that limited the potential growth in
U.S. high-grade revenue. The fee caps were set to take
effect at volume levels significantly above those being
transacted at the time the revised transaction fee plans were
introduced. Most of our broker-dealer clients entered into fee
arrangements with respect to the trading of U.S. high-grade
corporate bonds that included both a fixed component and a
variable component. These agreements had been scheduled to
expire during the third quarter of 2005.


On June 1, 2005, we introduced a new fee plan primarily for
secondary market transactions in U.S. high-grade corporate
bonds executed on our electronic trading platform. As of
December 31, 2005, 17 of our U.S. high-grade
broker-dealer clients have signed new two-year agreements that
supersede the fee arrangements that we entered into with many of
our broker-dealer clients during the third quarter of 2003. The
new plan incorporates higher fixed monthly fees and lower
variable fees for our broker-dealer clients than the previous
U.S. high-grade transaction fee plans described above, and
incorporates volume incentives to our broker-dealer clients that
are designed to increase the volume of transactions effected on
our platform. Under the new fee plan, we electronically add the
variable fee to the spread quoted by the broker-dealer client
but do not charge for inquiries that an institutional investor
client sends to a single broker-dealer client. The variable fee
varies depending on the size of the trade as well as the
maturity and yield of the bond traded. The combination of higher
fixed and lower variable fees in the new plan results in higher
revenue to us at lower volume levels but will limit revenue
growth in the future for U.S. high-grade corporate bond
trading as volume levels increase.

The average commission on U.S. high-grade transactions
declined for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $287 to
$248 per million traded for the year ended
December 31, 2004, but increased to $268 per million
traded for the year ended December 31, 2005 following the
introduction of the latest fee plan in June 2005.

European High-Grade Corporate Bonds

On our European platform, broker-dealer transaction fees vary
based on the type of bond traded. Different fee schedules apply
to fixed rate and floating rate bonds. Within the schedule for
fixed rate bonds, the fee varies depending on whether the bond
is a corporate or a sovereign issue. For corporate bonds, the
fee also varies depending on the maturity of the issue. This fee
schedule applies a tiered fee structure, which reduces the fee
per trade upon the attainment of certain specified amounts of
monthly commissions generated by a particular broker-dealer and
does not carry a fixed monthly fee or fee cap. The average
commission on European high-grade transactions has decreased
from $224 per million traded for the year ended
December 31, 2003, to $198 per million traded for the
year ended December 31, 2004 and to $192 per million
traded for the year ended December 31, 2005. This decrease
in average commission per million traded was caused by a shift
in the mix of bonds traded, some changes to the fee schedules
and by the impact of the tiered fee structure described above.

Emerging Markets Bonds

Broker-dealer clients pay a commission for transactions in
emerging markets bonds based on the type and amount of the
security traded. The commission is calculated on a standard
schedule that applies to all broker-dealer clients and varies
depending on whether the transaction is in an actively traded
sovereign issue, a less actively traded sovereign issue or a
corporate issue. A lower commission rate is charged for actively
traded sovereign issues, while a higher commission rate is
charged for corporate issues. The average commission on emerging
markets transactions for the year ended December 31, 2004
was $205 per million traded and for the year ended
December 31, 2005 was $188 per million traded.

Crossover and High-Yield Bonds

Broker-dealer clients pay a commission for transactions in
crossover and high-yield bonds that is calculated based on a
standard schedule that applies to all broker-dealer clients. The
fee varies depending on whether the issue is a crossover or
high-yield issue. Trades in crossover issues are charged in
accordance with the U.S. high-grade fee schedules. Trades
in high-yield issues are charged at a standard fee per million.
The average commission on crossover and high-yield transactions
for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $163 per
million traded.

Agency Bonds

Broker-dealer clients pay a commission for transactions in
agency bonds that is calculated based on a standard schedule
that applies to all broker-dealer clients. The fee varies
depending on the issue size and


whether the transaction is in a syndicated or non-syndicated
issue. The average commission on agency transactions for the
year ended December 31, 2005 was $57 per million
traded.

New Issues

For newly-issued U.S. high-grade corporate bonds and for
newly-issued emerging markets bonds, we enable
U.S. institutional investors to submit indications of
interest on our electronic trading platform directly to the
underwriter syndicate desks of our broker-dealer clients.
Commission levels for new issue transactions are based on the
allocation amount. There are fee caps on the level of
commissions paid by broker-dealer clients. The average
commission on new issue transactions for the year ended
December 31, 2004 was $297 per million traded and for
the year ended December 31, 2005 was $119 per million
traded.

Credit Default Swaps

Commissions are charged to both broker-dealer and institutional
investor clients for credit default swap index transactions that
are calculated as a percentage of the notional volume of
transactions traded. Broker-dealer clients are able to select
between standard fee schedules that contain monthly minimum
commissions and, in some cases, monthly fee caps.

Information and User Access Fees

Information and user access fees consist of information services
fees and monthly user fees.

We charge information services fees for Corporate BondTicker to
our broker-dealer clients, institutional investor clients and
data-only subscribers. The information services fee is a flat
monthly fee, based on the level of service. We also generate
information services fees from the sale of bulk data to certain
institutional investor clients and data-only subscribers.

Institutional investor clients trading U.S. high-grade
corporate bonds are charged a monthly user access fee for the
use of our platform. The fee, billed quarterly, is charged to
the client based on the number of the client’s users. To
encourage institutional investor clients to execute trades on
our U.S. high-grade corporate bond platform, we reduce
these information and user access fees for such clients once
minimum quarterly trading volumes are attained.

License Fees

License fees consist of fees received from broker-dealer
clients. In the agreements with our broker-dealer clients, we
agree to provide access to our trading platform through a
non-exclusive and non-transferable license. Broker-dealer
clients, other than those that previously made equity
investments in MarketAxess, pay an initial license fee, which is
typically due and payable upon execution of the broker-dealer
agreement. The initial license fee varies by agreement and at a
minimum is intended to cover the initial

set-up

costs we incur
to enable a broker-dealer to begin using our platform. The
license fee is a one-time fee and is recognized in the first
three months of the agreement in the estimated amount of the

set-up

costs that we
incur and the remaining amount is amortized over the initial
term of the agreement, which is generally three years. We
anticipate that license fees will be a less material source of
revenues for us on a going-forward basis.

Interest Income

Interest income consists of income earned on our investments. We
generate interest income through the investment of our excess
cash in U.S. Treasury obligations, money market instruments
and other high-grade fixed income investments. All investments
have a maximum maturity of two years and carry a rating of A or
better by Standard & Poor’s and A1 or better by
Moody’s Investor Service.


Other

Other revenues consist of telecommunications line charges to
broker-dealer clients, other miscellaneous revenues and funds
received as business interruption insurance settlements, which
was a non-recurring item in relation to the effects of the
September 11, 2001 terrorist acts.

Expenses

Employee Compensation and Benefits

Employee compensation and benefits is our most significant
expense and includes employee salaries, bonuses, stock-based
employee compensation, related employee benefits and payroll
taxes. Many employees receive bonuses based on our overall
operating results as well as their individual performance. These
bonuses vary from year to year and have a significant impact on
our employee compensation and benefits expense. Increases in the
number of our employees and cost increases affecting
employee-provided benefit plans also drive changes in this
expense.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization expense results from the
depreciation of fixed assets, which consist of computer
hardware, furniture and fixtures, and the amortization of
software, capitalized software development costs and leasehold
improvements. We depreciate our fixed assets and amortize our
capitalized software development costs on a straight-line basis
over a three-year period. We amortize leasehold improvements on
a straight-line basis over the lesser of the life of the
improvement and the remaining term of the lease. Our
depreciation and amortization expense varies from year to year
due to new asset purchases and assets that become fully
depreciated during the year.

Technology and Communications

Technology and communications expense consists primarily of
costs relating to the amortization of licenses for software used
in our trading platform, maintenance on software and hardware,
our internal network connections, data center hosting costs and
data feeds provided by outside vendors or service providers. We
amortize software licenses and maintenance agreements relating
to hardware and software over the term of these agreements,
which is generally one year. Maintenance agreements for our
computer hardware are in place to ensure that we receive
technical service from the vendor in the event of a malfunction.
We enter into software maintenance agreements to ensure that we
have access to the latest versions of the software we use. The
majority of our broker-dealer clients have dedicated high-speed
communication lines to our network in order to provide fast data
transfer. We charge our broker-dealer clients a monthly fee for
these connections, which is recovered against the relevant
expenses we incur. The number of users accessing our trading and
information services products affects our technology and
communications expense.

Professional and Consulting Fees

Professional and consulting fees consist primarily of accounting
fees, legal fees and fees paid to information technology and
non-information technology consultants for services provided for
the maintenance of our trading platform and information services
products.

Warrant-Related Expense

Warrant-related expense is the expense associated with the
allocation of shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to a
warrant issued to six of our broker-dealer clients at the time
they made an equity investment in us. The warrant program was
put in place in April 2000 and was designed to motivate
broker-dealers to trade on our platform.

The total number of shares underlying the warrant is 5,000,002.
The warrant program had two distinct pieces, a U.S. portion
and a European portion, under which the aggregate number of
shares underlying the warrant to be allocated in each
three-month period was fixed. Allocations under this program
commenced on


May 1, 2001 for the U.S. portion and June 1, 2002
for the European portion and were based on each broker-dealer
client’s respective commissions as a percentage of the
total commissions paid to us from the six participating warrant
holders, calculated on a quarterly basis.

Shares allocated under the warrant program were expensed each
quarter at fair market value in accordance with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock Based Compensation”
(“SFAS No. 123”). We determined the fair
market value of the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The final share
allocations under the warrant program occurred on March 1,
2004. Accordingly, we will no longer record any expense related
to this warrant.

Marketing and Advertising

Marketing and advertising expense consists primarily of print
and other advertising expenses we incur to promote our products
and services. This expense also includes costs associated with
attending or exhibiting at industry-sponsored seminars,
conferences and conventions. Also included in this expense are
travel and entertainment expenses incurred by our sales force to
promote our trading platform and information services.

Moneyline Revenue Share

Moneyline revenue share expense consists of expenses incurred
pursuant to our agreement with Moneyline Telerate
(“Moneyline”), formerly an independent technology and
data company, which assisted us in the development of our
U.S. high-grade corporate bond and European trading
platforms. Pursuant to the agreement, a revenue share was paid
quarterly to Moneyline based on a percentage of revenues
generated on our U.S. high-grade corporate bond and
European trading platforms, after deduction of identified
development costs. We have completed the transition to new
internally-developed software for our U.S. high-grade
corporate and European bond platforms. In the first quarter of
2005, we ceased using the Moneyline technology and have
therefore incurred no revenue share expense since that date.

General and Administrative

General and administrative expense consists primarily of
occupancy and utilities, general travel and entertainment, board
of directors expenses, charitable contributions, provision for
doubtful accounts, and various state franchise and U.K.
value-added taxes.

Income Taxes and Net Operating Loss Carryforwards

Income taxes are accounted for on the asset and liability method
in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for
Income Taxes.” Deferred tax assets arise as a result of our
net operating losses and from the tax effect of various types of
temporary differences including, in our case, differences
between amounts reported for income tax purposes and for
financial statement purposes.

As of December 31, 2005, we had net operating loss
carryforwards for income tax purposes of $104.1 million.
The U.S. net operating loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2005 totaling $93.5 million will begin to
expire in 2018 and the U.K. net operating loss carryforwards as
of December 31, 2005 totaling $10.6 million do not
expire. In 2000 and in 2001, MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and
MarketAxess Corporation, respectively, had an ownership change
within the meaning of Section 382. As a result of
Section 382 and pertinent tax provisions, the utilization
of $34.2 million and $39.2 million on a tax basis and
book basis, respectively, of our net operating loss
carryforwards existing at the date of the ownership change is
subject to significant limitations. In addition, our net
operating loss carryforwards may be subject to additional annual
limitations if there is a 50% or greater change in our
ownership, as determined over a rolling three-year period.

A net operating loss carryforward enables a company to apply net
operating losses incurred during a current period against a
future period’s profits in order to reduce tax liability in
those future periods. In periods when a company is generating
operating losses, its net operating loss carryforward will
increase. The income tax effect of the net operating loss
carryforwards is recorded as a deferred income tax asset. If the
company


does not believe that it is more likely than not that it will be
able to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards, it records
a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset.
Additionally, as defined in Section 382, a change in
control occurs, and causes a limitation in the utilization of
net operating losses, when there is a 50% or greater change in
the company’s ownership, as determined over a rolling
three-year period.

Realization of the deferred tax assets is dependent upon the
generation of future taxable income during the periods in which
the temporary differences become deductible. A valuation
allowance is recognized against deferred tax assets if it is
more likely than not that such assets will not be realized in
future periods. We generated net operating loss carryforwards
from inception through the first quarter of 2003, resulting from
losses we incurred. At each reporting period since inception, we
assessed the need for a valuation allowance against this
deferred tax asset. From inception through March 31, 2004,
an allowance equal to 100% of the deferred tax asset was
established as it was unlikely that we would be able to utilize
such deferred tax assets.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations discusses our Consolidated
Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States, also referred to as U.S. GAAP. The preparation of
these financial statements requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses
during the reporting periods. We base our estimates and
judgments on historical experience and on various other factors
that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual
results may differ from these estimates under varying
assumptions or conditions. Note 2 of the Notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements includes a summary of the
significant accounting policies and methods used in the
preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and
judgments, particularly as they relate to accounting policies
that management believes are critical. That is, these accounting
policies are most important to the portrayal of our financial
condition and results of operations and they require
management’s most difficult, subjective or complex
judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about
the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

We charge certain of our institutional investor clients an
information services fee and a monthly user access fee for the
use of our trading platform. The user access fees charged to an
institutional investor client are reduced or eliminated if the
institutional investor client meets certain minimum quarterly
trading volumes.

We have established an allowance for doubtful accounts based
upon the estimated collectibility of information and user access
fees. Additions to the allowance are charged to bad debt
expense, which is included in the general and administrative
expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenues relating to broker-dealer license fees in
the first three months of the applicable agreement in the
estimated amount of the

set-up

costs incurred,
and the remaining amount is amortized over the initial term of
the agreement, which is generally three years.

Stock-Based Employee Compensation

During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we
have accounted for stock-based employee compensation plans in
accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
(APB) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees” (“APB No. 25”), as permitted by
SFAS No. 123. In accordance with APB No. 25,
compensation expense is recognized for stock awards that have
intrinsic value on the date of grant. Unearned compensation is
amortized and charged to income over the vesting schedule. Our
employee option grants usually vest over a three-year period
from the date of issuance.


Had we adopted SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation” and SFAS No. 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Transactions and
Disclosure,” to expense the fair value of an employee grant
over the appropriate vesting period, we would have incurred
stock-based employee compensation expense, net of related tax
effects, of $1.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005, $2.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 and $1.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003.

The Company will adopt SFAS No. 123(R), “Share
Based Payments,” as of January 1, 2006, which requires
previously granted but unvested awards to be recorded as an
expense on a prorated basis over the remaining vesting period.
Had we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), we would have incurred
additional stock-based employee compensation expense of
$2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and
$1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We
expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will have a
material impact on our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Warrant

We allocated shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of a
warrant to certain of our broker-dealer clients on a quarterly
basis. Allocations under our warrant program were based on a
percentage of the total quarterly commissions generated either
on our U.S. or our European trading platform by
broker-dealer clients eligible for the warrant pool.

We accounted for this warrant in accordance with
SFAS No. 123. Expense was recognized on the
measurement date based on the fair market value of the shares of
common stock underlying the warrant. Fair market value was
determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. This
pricing model requires the following inputs: our underlying
stock price; the volatility of the underlying stock; the
expiration date of the warrant; the risk-free rate of return;
and dividend payments on our stock. The underlying stock price
has been obtained using independent third-party valuations. For
the stock volatility factor, we used a weighted average
volatility over a

30-month

period for the
NASDAQ 100 index. We determined the risk-free rate of return
based on the interest rate of a three-year U.S. government
obligation. The expiration date of the warrant is
November 30, 2008, and we have assumed no dividend payments
on our common stock. The final share allocations under the
warrant program occurred on March 1, 2004. Accordingly, we
will no longer record any warrant-related expense.

Results of Operations

The following table provides the notional value of the bonds
traded on our platform for each of the periods presented:

Year Ended December 31,




(In billions, except number of

trading days)

U.S. high-grade

$

177.6

$

183.5

$

140.3

European high-grade

73.4

76.5

31.8

Other

48.2

38.1

20.1

Total

$

299.2

$

298.1

$

192.2

Number of U.S. trading days




Number of U.K. trading days




For volume reporting purposes, transactions in foreign
currencies are converted to U.S. dollars at the exchange
rates prevailing on the day the transactions were executed.


The following table presents our consolidated operating results
expressed in U.S. dollars and as a percentage of total
revenues for each of the periods presented:

(1)

Warrant-related expense is the expense associated with the
    allocation of rights to purchase shares of our common stock
    issuable pursuant to a warrant issued to six of our
    broker-dealer clients at the time they made an equity investment
    in us. As of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the total
    number of shares underlying the warrant was 3,674,400, 5,007,968
    and 4,778,800. While the warrant was expensed each quarter at
    fair market value, this was a non-cash expense that fluctuated
    with the underlying price of our common stock. The final share
    allocations under the warrant program occurred on March 1,
    2004. Accordingly, we no longer record any expense related to
    this warrant.

(2)

During the year ended December 31, 2005, we reduced the
    valuation allowance by $2.9 million to $15.2 million
    based on management’s current assessment of the factors
    impacting the valuation allowance previously recorded. Such
    factors include management’s expectation of continuing
    future profitable operations and judgment concerning future
    utilization of certain net operating losses that are subject to
    Section 382 limitations prior to their expiration. We
    believe it is likely, but subject to some uncertainty,


that approximately 69% of the net operating losses will be
    utilized prior to their expiration in 2018. In addition, we
    adjusted the income tax rate used for recording the deferred tax
    assets resulting in a decrease in the deferred tax assets and an
    increase in tax expense of $1.8 million. Without giving
    effect to the adjustment to the income tax rate used for
    recognizing the deferred tax assets and the reduction in the
    valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets, our net
    income for the year ended December 31, 2005 would have been
    $7.0 million.

(3)

During the year ended December 31, 2004, we reduced the
    valuation allowance relating to our deferred tax assets by
    $46.1 million, from $64.3 million to
    $18.1 million. Due to the fact that we had achieved
    multiple quarters of profitability, it became more likely than
    not that we would be able to utilize our net operating loss
    carryforwards. We also determined that it was more likely than
    not that all of the temporary differences relating to the
    deductibility of certain expenses for book and tax purposes,
    including the warrant-related expense, would be utilized prior
    to expiration. We also recognized $2.1 million in tax
    credits and an additional tax benefit for operating losses of
    $1.5 million. Without giving effect to the reduction of the
    valuation allowance, tax credits and reversal, our net income
    for the year ended December 31, 2004 would have been
    $7.9 million.

Segment Results

As an electronic, multi-dealer to client platform for trading
fixed-income securities, our operations constitute a single
business segment pursuant to SFAS No. 131,
“Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information.” Because of the highly integrated nature of
the financial markets in which we compete and the integration of
our worldwide business activities, we believe that results by
geographic region, products or types of clients are not
necessarily meaningful in understanding our business.

Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2004

Overview

For the year ended December 31, 2005, Income before taxes
decreased by $5.8 million to $11.6 million compared to
Income before taxes of $17.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Net income decreased by
$49.4 million to $8.1 million compared to Net income
of $57.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
This decrease was primarily due to a net income tax benefit of
$40.3 million that was recorded for the year ended
December 31, 2004 due to the reduction of the valuation
allowance against our deferred tax assets.

Total revenues increased by $2.8 million or 3.6% to
$78.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
from $75.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2004. This increase in total revenues was primarily due to an
increase of interest income of $2.3 million and information
and user access fees of $1.7 million, offset in part by a
decrease of $1.3 million in total commissions.

Total expenses increased by $8.5 million or 14.6% to
$67.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
from $58.5 million for the comparable period in 2004. This
increase was primarily due to increases of $4.4 million in
professional and consulting fees, $2.4 million in general
and administrative expense, $2.3 million in employee
compensation and benefits, $2.0 million in technology and
communications, and $1.1 million in depreciation and
amortization expense, offset by decreases in warrant-related
expense and Moneyline revenue share, in each case compared to
the comparable period in 2004.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, we reduced the
valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets by
$2.9 million to $15.2 million based on
management’s current assessment of the factors impacting
the valuation allowance previously recorded. Such factors
include management’s expectation of continuing future
profitable operations and judgment concerning future utilization
of certain net operating losses that are subject to
Section 382 limitations prior to their expiration. We
believe it is likely, but subject to some uncertainty, that
approximately 69% of the net operating losses will be utilized
prior to their expiration in 2018. In addition, we adjusted the
income tax rate used for recording the deferred tax assets
resulting in a decrease in the deferred tax assets and an
increase in tax expense of $1.8 million. Without giving
effect to the adjustment to the income


tax rate used for recognizing the deferred tax assets and the
reduction in the valuation allowance against the deferred tax
assets, our net income for the year ended December 31, 2005
would have been $7.0 million.

Revenues

Our revenues and percentages of revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the resulting dollar and
percentage change, are as follows:

Commissions.

Total commissions decreased by
$1.3 million or 1.8% to $66.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005 from $68.2 million for the
comparable period in 2004. This decrease was primarily due to
decreases in European high-grade commissions.
U.S. high-grade commissions increased by $0.2 million
or 0.3% to $45.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from $45.5 million for the
comparable period in 2004. European high-grade commissions
decreased by $1.1 million or 7.0% to $14.1 million
from $15.1 million for the comparable period in 2004. Other
commissions decreased by $0.3 million or 4.5% to
$7.2 million from $7.6 million for the comparable
period in 2004. The average fee per million across all markets
for the year ended December 31, 2005, including
single-dealer volume, was $229 per million compared to
$224 per million for the year ended December 31, 2004.

Information and User Access Fees.

Information and user
access fees increased by $1.7 million or 63.5% to
$4.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
$2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
This increase was primarily due to an increase in the number of
subscribers to our Corporate BondTicker service.

License Fees.

License fees decreased by $0.2 million
or 4.9% to $3.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from $3.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. This decrease was due to the addition of
three new broker-dealer clients in the year ended
December 31, 2005 compared to four new broker-dealer
clients added in the year ended December 31, 2004.

Interest Income.

Interest income increased by
$2.3 million or 258.3% to $3.2 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005 from $0.9 million for the
comparable period in 2004. This increase was primarily due to
higher cash, cash equivalents and securities available-for-sale
balances during the year ended December 31, 2005 as
compared to the comparable period in 2004.

Other.

Other revenues increased by $0.2 million or
19.4% to $1.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2005 from $0.9 million for the comparable period in 2004.
This increase was primarily due to a financial statement
reclassification to recognize as revenue the gross
telecommunication line fees paid by broker-dealer clients.


Expenses

Our expenses and percentages of revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the resulting dollar and
percentage change, are as follows:

Employee Compensation and Benefits.

Employee compensation
and benefits increased by $2.3 million or 6.9% to
$35.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
from $33.1 million for the year ended December 31
2004. The total number of employees increased to 182 as of
December 31, 2005 from 172 as of December 31, 2004.
This increase was primarily due to the addition of new employees
to support our growth (including the development of credit
derivatives trading services) and higher payroll tax
contributions relating to employee stock options for staff of
MarketAxess Europe, higher staff benefits and lower
capitalization of technology development compensation. As a
percentage of total revenues, employee compensation and benefits
expense increased to 45.1% for the year ended December 31,
2005 from 43.7% for the year ended December 31, 2004.

Depreciation and Amortization.

Depreciation and
amortization expense increased by $1.1 million or 32.8% to
$4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
$3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. For
the year ended December 31, 2005, we capitalized
$3.4 million of software development costs and
$1.4 million of computer and related equipment purchases.
During 2004, the Company purchased $2.8 million of computer
and related equipment for our new disaster recovery facility,
which went into production in May 2005, causing our depreciation
expense to increase in 2005. In November 2004, we determined
that our trading platform software developed by us with input
from Moneyline, a stockholder, would be retired by
March 31, 2005. Therefore, we accelerated depreciation of
this software. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded
additional depreciation in the amount of $0.1 million. An
additional $0.2 million was depreciated in the quarter
ended March 31, 2005.

Technology and Communications.

Technology and
communications expense increased by $2.0 million or 31.9%
to $8.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005
from $6.4 million for the year ended December 31,
2004. This increase was attributable to increased cost relating
to market data, production telecommunications and software
maintenance. As a percentage of total revenues, technology and
communications expense increased to 10.8% for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from 8.5% for the year ended
December 31, 2004.

Professional and Consulting Fees.

Professional and
consulting fees increased by $4.4 million or 90.6% to
$9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
$4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
This increase was primarily due to additional audit and tax,
legal, insurance and investor relations expenses associated with
being a public company as well as increased consulting and
recruiting fees. As a percentage of total revenues, professional
and consulting fees increased to 11.9% for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from 6.5% for the year ended
December 31, 2004.


Marketing and Advertising.

Marketing and advertising
expense increased by $0.1 million or 2.0% to
$2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
$2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
This increase was primarily due to expenses we incurred for
print and other advertising used to promote our electronic
trading platform.

Moneyline Revenue Share.

Moneyline revenue share expense
decreased by $1.3 million or 104.0% to a benefit of
$0.1 million from $1.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005 due to termination of the Moneyline
revenue share agreement and reversal of a prior period
overaccrual in the first quarter of 2005.

General and Administrative.

General and administrative
expense increased by $2.4 million or 55.2% to
$6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
$4.3 million for the comparable period in 2004. This
increase was due to a number of factors, including increases in
rent, board of directors costs, travel and entertainment,
value-added tax and charitable contributions.

Provision for Income Tax

During the year ended December 31, 2005 we recorded a
provision for income taxes of $3.4 million. We reduced the
valuation allowance by $2.9 million to $15.2 million
based on management’s current assessment of the factors
impacting the valuation allowance previously recorded. Such
factors include management’s expectation of continuing
future profitable operations and judgment concerning future
utilization of certain net operating losses that are subject to
Section 382 limitations prior to their expiration. We
believe it is likely, but subject to some uncertainty, that
approximately 69% of the net operating losses will be utilized
prior to their expiration in 2018. In addition, we adjusted the
income tax rate used for recording the deferred tax assets,
resulting in a decrease in the deferred tax assets and an
increase in tax expense of $1.8 million. Without giving
effect to the adjustment to the income tax rate used for
recognizing the deferred tax assets and the reduction in the
valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets, our net
income for the year ended December 31, 2005 would have been
$7.0 million.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had net operating loss
carryforwards for income tax purposes of $104.1 million.
The U.S. net operating loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2005 totaling $93.5 million will begin to
expire in 2018 and the U.K. net operating loss carryforwards as
of December 31, 2005 totaling $10.6 million do not
expire. In 2000 and 2001, MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and
MarketAxess Corporation had an ownership change within the
meaning of Section 382. As a result of Section 382 and
pertinent tax provisions, the utilization of $34.3 million
on a tax basis and $39.2 million on a book basis of the
Company’s net operating loss carryforwards existing at the
date of the ownership change is subject to significant
limitations. In addition, the Company’s net operating loss
carryforwards may be subject to additional annual limitations if
there is a 50% or greater change in the Company’s
ownership, as determined over a rolling three-year period.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, two related
parties converted 1,325,602 warrants into 1,325,249 shares
of common stock through a non-cash exercise resulting in a
credit for federal income taxes purposes of $3.7 million,
which when realized would result in an increase in Additional
paid-in capital. Management believes that there is sufficient
uncertainty with regard to the ultimate realization of this tax
credit and therefore has not recognized the credit in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as of
December 31, 2005.

We cannot predict the timing of the reversal of certain of the
temporary differences. Therefore, the reversal of the temporary
differences may result in charges to the provision for income
taxes and may affect our future earnings.

Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended
    December 31, 2003

Overview

For the year ended December 31, 2004, Income before taxes
increased by $12.9 million to $17.3 million compared
to Income before taxes of $4.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. Net income increased by
$53.4 million to $57.6 million compared to Net income
of $4.2 million for the year ended December 31,


2003. This increase was primarily due to a net income tax
benefit of $40.3 million that was recorded for the year
ended December 31, 2004 primarily due to the reduction of
the valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, as is
more fully described below. Without giving effect to the
reduction of the valuation allowance, our Net income for the
year ended December 31, 2004 would have been
$7.9 million.

Total revenues increased by $17.3 million or 30.0% to
$75.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
from $58.5 million for the year ended December 31,
2003. This increase in total revenues was primarily due to the
growth in the total volume of bonds traded on our platform,
which grew 55.0% to $298.1 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2004 from $192.3 billion for the
comparable period in 2003, offset in part by an increasing
portion of our total trading volume generated from European
high-grade corporate bonds that carry a lower fee per million,
as well as by the introduction of the new U.S. high-grade
fee plans in the third quarter of 2003. Total expenses increased
by $4.4 million or 8.2% to $58.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004 from $54.1 million for the
comparable period in 2003.

For the year ended December 31, 2004, our total expenses
increased primarily due to increases in employee compensation
and benefits, technology and communications, professional and
consulting fees, marketing and advertising and general and
administrative expense, offset by decreases in depreciation,
amortization, warrant-related expense and Moneyline revenue
share, in each case compared to the comparable period in 2003.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, we reduced the
valuation allowance relating to our deferred tax assets by
$46.1 million, from $64.3 million to
$18.1 million. Due to the fact that we had achieved
multiple quarters of profitability, it became more likely than
not that we would be able to utilize our net operating loss
carryforwards. We also determined that it was more likely than
not that all of the temporary differences relating to the
deductibility of certain expenses for book and tax purposes,
including the warrant-related expense, would be utilized prior
to expiration. We also recognized $2.1 million in tax
credits and an additional tax benefit for operating losses of
$1.5 million. Without giving effect to the reduction of the
valuation allowance, tax credits and reversal, our net income
for the year ended December 31, 2004 would have been
$7.9 million.

Revenues

Our revenues and percentage of revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the resulting dollar and
percentage change, are as follows:

Commissions.

Total commissions increased by
$15.4 million or 29.1% to $68.2 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004 from $52.8 million for the
comparable period in 2003. This increase was primarily due to
increases in the amount of U.S. high-grade commissions and
substantial increases in European high-


grade commissions. U.S. high-grade commissions increased by
$5.2 million or 12.8% to $45.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004 from $40.3 million for the
comparable period in 2003. European high-grade commissions
increased by $8.0 million or 112.5% to $15.1 million
from $7.1 million for the comparable period in 2003. Other
commissions increased by $2.2 million or 41.0% to
$7.6 million from $5.4 million for the comparable
period in 2003. These increases were primarily due to an
increase in transaction volume from $192.2 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2003 to $298.1 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2004 generated by new and existing
clients, offset by a 16.7% reduction in the average commission
per million from $275 per million for the year ended
December 31, 2003 to $229 per million for the year
ended December 31, 2004. This decrease in average
commission per million was attributable to the full-year effect
of our U.S. high-grade fee plans, increasing volumes of
transactions with lower fees per million and an increase in the
percentage of trades executed on the platform in bonds with
shorter maturities, which generally generate lower commissions
per million,

Information and User Access Fees.

Information and user
access fees increased by $1.6 million or 137.2% to
$2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from
$1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
This increase was primarily due to an increase in the number of
subscribers to our Corporate BondTicker service.

License Fees.

License fees decreased by $1.0 million
or 24.2% to $3.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 from $4.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. This decrease was due to the addition of
four new broker-dealer clients in the year ended
December 31, 2004 compared to five new broker-dealer
clients added in the year ended December 31, 2003.

Interest Income.

Interest income increased by
$0.5 million or 137.7% to $0.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004 from $0.4 million for the
comparable period in 2003. This increase was due to a rise in
interest rates and higher cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investment balances during the year ended December 31, 2004
as compared to the comparable period in 2003.

Other.

Other revenues increased to $0.9 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004 from $0.0 million for
the comparable period in 2003. This increase was primarily due
to the effects of a change in accounting policy with respect to
recognizing as revenue gross telecommunication line fees paid by
broker-dealer clients. These line fees were immaterial and were
offset against the related technology and communications cost in
prior years.

Expenses

Our expenses and percentage of revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the resulting dollar and
percentage change, are as follows:


Employee Compensation and Benefits.

Employee compensation
and benefits increased by $6.3 million or 23.4% to
$33.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
from $26.9 million for the year ended December 31
2003. This increase was primarily due to the addition of new
employees to support our growth and Moneyline consultant staff
that became our full-time employees. The total number of
employees increased to 172 as of December 31, 2004 from 159
as of December 31, 2003. As a percentage of total revenues,
employee compensation and benefits expense decreased to 43.7%
for the year ended December 31, 2004 from 45.9% for the
year ended December 31, 2003.

Depreciation and Amortization.

Depreciation and
amortization expense decreased by $1.2 million or 26.0% to
$3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from
$4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
This decrease was primarily due to certain assets coming to the
end of their depreciable lives during 2004. For the year ended
December 31, 2004, we capitalized $3.6 million of
software development costs, of which $3.0 million was
placed in production. Depreciation and amortization of the
remaining balance of $0.6 million will commence when the
software becomes operational. In November 2004, we determined
that our trading platform software developed by us with input
from Moneyline, a stockholder, would be retired by
March 31, 2005. Therefore, we accelerated depreciation of
this software. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded
additional depreciation in the amount of $0.1 million. An
additional $0.2 million was depreciated by March 31,
2005.

Technology and Communications.

Technology and
communications expense increased by $1.6 million or 34.6%
to $6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004
from $4.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2003. This increase was attributable to increased cost relating
to data center hosting, market data, and office and production
telecommunications. As a percentage of total revenues,
technology and communications expense increased to 8.5% for the
year ended December 31, 2004 from 8.1% for the year ended
December 31, 2003.

Professional and Consulting Fees.

Professional and
consulting fees increased by $0.7 million or 17.4% to
$4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from
$4.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
This increase was primarily due to additional legal, accounting
and insurance expenses associated with becoming a public
company. As a percentage of total revenues, professional and
consulting fees decreased to 6.5% for the year ended
December 31, 2004 from 7.2% for the year ended
December 31, 2003.

Warrant-related Expense.

Warrant-related expense
decreased by $2.9 million or 53.3% to $2.5 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004 from $5.4 million for
the year ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was
primarily due to the fact that the final share allocations under
the warrant program occurred on March 1, 2004.

Marketing and Advertising.

Marketing and advertising
expense increased by $0.2 million or 10.4% to
$2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from
$2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
This increase was primarily due to expenses we incurred for
print and other advertising used to promote our electronic
trading platform.

Moneyline Revenue Share.

Moneyline revenue share expense
decreased by $0.6 million or 31.3% to $1.2 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004 from $1.8 million for
the year ended December 31, 2003. The increased trading
volume in U.S. and European high-grade corporate bonds that is
the basis for the revenue share calculation was offset by the
changes in the U.S. high-grade corporate bond fee plan in
2003 and the migration away from the Moneyline platform to the
new U.S. high-grade platform in May 2004.

General and Administrative.

General and administrative
expense increased by $0.2 million or 4.6% to
$4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from
$4.1 million for the comparable period in 2003. This
increase was due to a number of factors, including increase in
occupancy expenses, value-added tax “VAT” and
franchise tax payments, partially offset by the reversal of
$0.2 million in a VAT tax reserve taken in 2003.

Provision for Income Tax

For the year ended December 31, 2004, we recorded a net
income tax benefit of $40.3 million. The benefit consists
of a reduction in the valuation allowance relating to our
deferred tax asset of $46.1 million, the


recognition of $2.1 million in tax credits and an
additional tax benefit for operating losses of
$1.5 million. This was offset with a charge of
$9.4 million, which includes federal, state and local and
foreign taxes. We have recorded a valuation allowance of
$18.1 million against the gross deferred tax assets of
$58.5 million arising from net operating loss carryforwards
and temporary differences relating to the deductibility of
certain expenses for book and tax purposes. The ultimate
realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the
generation of future taxable income during the periods in which
the temporary differences become deductible. The valuation
allowance was reduced to $18.1 million during the year
ended December 31, 2004 based on our reassessment of the
factors impacting the valuation allowance previously recorded.
Such factors include seven consecutive quarters of profitable
operations in the U.S. and six consecutive quarters of
profitable operations in the U.K., our expectation of continuing
future profitable operations, our anticipation that we would be
able to utilize certain net operating loss carryforwards during
2004 and our ability to utilize certain of the net operating
loss carryforwards in future periods prior to their expiration.
We believed it was likely, but subject to some uncertainty, that
approximately 62% of the net operating losses will be utilized
prior to their expiration in 2018. These net operating loss
carryforwards are limited pursuant to Section 382 due to
the acquisition by us of 100% of the outstanding equity of
Trading Edge. This estimate assumes that all temporary
differences will be utilized during this period, and that a
majority of the net operating loss carryforwards subject to
Section 382 limitations may expire prior to their
utilization. This valuation allowance was deemed appropriate due
to available evidence indicating that some of the deferred tax
assets might not be realized in future years due to annual
utilization restrictions. The net operating losses will be
carried forward to future years.

We cannot predict the timing of the reversal of certain of the
temporary differences. Therefore, the reversal of the temporary
differences may result in charges to the provision for income
taxes and may affect our future earnings.

Quarterly Results of Operations

Our quarterly results have varied significantly as a result of:

•

changes in trading volume due to market conditions, a decrease
    in the number of trading days in certain quarters, and
    seasonality effects caused by slow-downs in trading activity
    during certain periods;

•

increases in the number of broker-dealers and institutional
    investors using our trading platform as well as increased usage
    by existing clients; and

•

expansion of the products we offer to our clients.


The following table sets forth certain consolidated quarterly
income statement data for the eight quarters ended
December 31, 2005. In our opinion, this unaudited
information has been prepared on a basis consistent with our
annual financial statements and includes all adjustments
(consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary for
a fair statement of the unaudited quarterly data. This
information should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated
Financial Statements and related Notes included in this annual
report on
Form

10-K.

The
results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily
indicative of results that we may achieve for any subsequent
periods.

(1)

Of these amounts, $6,506, $6,265, $6,100, $6,442, $7,140,
    $6,499, $5,434 and $5,440, respectively, were from related
    parties.

(2)

Of these amounts, $2,611, $1,971, $1,990, $1,778, $2,386,
    $1,776, $1,424 and $1,461, respectively, were from related
    parties.


The following tables set forth trading volume and average fee
per million traded for the eight quarters ended
December 31, 2005.


Three Months Ended

March 31,

June 30,

Sept 30,

Dec 31,

March 31,

June 30,

Sept 30,

Dec 31,









Average Fee Per Million Traded:

U.S. high-grade

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


European high-grade

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Other

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Average Fee Per Million Traded For All Products Excluding
    Single-Dealer Inquiries

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Average Fee Per Million Traded For All Products Including
    Single-Dealer Inquiries

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


For U.S. high-grade corporate bonds, revenues during the
last eight quarters ranged from a low of $10.7 million for
the three months ended December 31, 2005 to a high of
$12.5 million for the three months ended March 31,
2004 and an average of $11.4 million for the four quarters
of the year ended December 31, 2005. Our trading volume for
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds ranged from a low of
$35.7 billion for the three months ended September 30,
2005 to a high of $54.8 billion for the three months ended
March 31, 2005. We believe that overall
U.S. high-grade corporate bond trading volumes declined
between 2004 and 2005. Volume in the $100,000 to $5 million
range, a trade size category where NASD TRACE reported the
actual volume numbers for both years, fell by 12% between 2004
and 2005. Due primarily to the new transaction fee plan for
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds that was introduced during
the second quarter of 2005, average U.S. high-grade
commissions, excluding single-dealer inquiries, increased from
$229 per million traded in the three months ended
March 30, 2005 to $299 per million traded in the three
months ended December 31, 2005.

For the European high-grade platform during the last eight
quarters, revenues ranged from a low of $3.1 million for
the three months ended September 30, 2005 to a high of
$4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2004
and an average of $3.5 million for the four quarters of the
year ended December 31, 2005. Trading volume ranged from a
low of $16.3 billion for the three months ended
September 30, 2005 to a high of $23.6 billion for the
three months ended March 31, 2005 and an average of
$18.4 billion for the four quarters of the year ended
December 31, 2005. Average European high-grade corporate
bond commissions declined from $191 per million traded in
the three months ended March 31, 2004 to $186 per
million traded for the quarter ended December 31, 2005
because of the product mix on the European high-grade platform,
some changes to the fee schedules and the impact of the tiered
fee structure.

For the Other bonds traded on our platform during the last eight
quarters, commissions ranged from a low of $1.7 million for
the three months ended June 30, 2004 to a high of
$2.1 million for the three months ended September 30,
2004 and an average of $1.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005. Trading volume ranged from a low of
$6.4 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2004
to a high of $13.3 billion for the three months ended
September 30, 2005, with an average of $12.0 billion
for the four quarters of the year ended December 31, 2005.
Because of the product mix and changes to the new issue fee
plan, average commissions ranged from a high of $284 per
million traded for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 to a
low $138 per million traded for the three months ended
September 30, 2005 and an average of $151 per million
traded for the four quarters of the year ended December 31,
2005.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Since our inception, we have met our funding requirements
through the issuance of our preferred stock, internally
generated funds and our initial public offering in November
2004. Cash, cash equivalents, Short-term investments and
Securities-available-for-sale totaled $36.2 million at
December 31, 2003, $103.4 million at December 31,
2004 and $118.1 million at December 31, 2005. The
changes in the balances were the result


of capital-raising activities and operating cash flow. As of
December 31, 2004, we did not invest in equities or
corporate fixed-income securities. In January 2005, we invested
the net proceeds of our initial public offering in commercial
paper, municipal bonds and short-term corporate bonds. To limit
our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations from MarketAxess
Europe Limited and MarketAxess Leasing Limited, our U.K.
subsidiaries, we use foreign currency forward contracts in which
we sell Pounds Sterling and buy U.S. dollars for forward
settlement.

Current assets consists of cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments, securities provided as collateral, accounts
receivable and prepaid expenses. These assets represented 86.3%
of our total assets at December 31, 2003, 70.4% at
December 31, 2004 and 73.3% at December 31, 2005. In
addition, our current ratio, which is computed by dividing
current assets by current liabilities, was 2.8 at
December 31, 2002, 2.8 at December 31, 2003, 6.1 at
December 31, 2004 and 7.2 at December 31, 2005.
Current liabilities were comprised of accrued employee
compensation, deferred license revenue, accounts payable and
accrued expenses.

We have no long-term or short-term debt and do not maintain bank
lines of credit. Our contingent liabilities and commitments
consist of our non-cancelable leases for office space and our
foreign exchange forward contracts. As of December 31,
2005, the minimum rentals under our leases, net of sublease
income, were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,

Minimum Rentals


$

2.2 million


2.2 million


2.2 million


2.2 million


1.2 million

Thereafter through 2015

4.0 million

Total

$

14.0 million

A standby letter of credit is used as security for a long-term
office space lease and is collateralized by U.S. Treasury
securities with a fair value of $3.3 million as of
December 31, 2005. U.S. Treasury securities are
replaced as they mature to continually collateralize the letter
of credit.

Our cash flows were as follows for the periods presented below:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

16,814

$

20,733

$

17,022

Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities

(58,940

)

2,520

(8,619

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

2,709

54,169


Effect of exchange rate differences

(46

)

(361

)

(108

)

Net (decrease) increase for the year

$

(39,463

)

$

77,061

$

8,375

Operating Activities

Commissions, information and access fees, and general operating
expenses are the key factors that influence our cash flow. At
December 31, 2005, we had Cash and cash equivalents of
$58.2 million, a decrease of $39.5 million compared to
$97.7 million at December 31, 2004. In 2004, Cash and
cash equivalents increased $77.1 million to
$97.7 million from $20.6 million at December 31,
2003. As of December 31, 2005, Cash and cash equivalents
represented 30.6% of our total assets compared to 55.3% and
36.0% at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The
decrease in Cash and cash equivalents in 2005 was due primarily
to investments in Securities-available-for-sale. The increase in
2004 was primarily from the net


proceeds of our initial public offering. The increase in 2003
was due primarily to net cash provided by operations.

Past trends of cash flows are not necessarily indicative of
future cash flow levels. A decrease in cash flows may have a
material adverse effect on our liquidity, business and financial
condition.

Net cash provided by operating activities was
$16.9 million, $20.7 million and $17.0 million
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

Cash provided by operating activities of $16.9 million for
the year ended December 31, 2005 consisted of net income of
$8.1 million, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily
consisting of charges of $4.6 million for depreciation and
amortization, $1.9 million for charges related to the
issuance of stock options and restricted stock to employees,
directors and non-employees and a $3.0 million recognition
of deferred taxes. These non-cash charges were offset by an
increase in cash used for working capital of $1.7 million.

Cash provided by operating activities of $20.7 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004 consisted of net income of
$57.6 million, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily
consisting of $40.4 million recognition of deferred taxes,
charges of $3.5 million for depreciation and amortization
and $2.5 million for warrant-related expense. These
non-cash charges were offset by an increase in cash used for
working capital of $2.8 million.

Cash used in operating activities of $17.0 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003 consisted of net income of
$4.2 million, adjusted for non-cash charges, primarily
consisting of charges of $4.7 million for depreciation and
amortization and $5.4 million for warrant-related expense.
These non-cash charges were offset by an increase in cash used
for working capital of $2.6 million.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $59.0 million and
$8.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2003, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2004,
net cash provided by investing activities was $2.5 million.

Cash used in investing activities of $59.0 million for the
year ended December 31, 2005 consisted of net purchases of
Securities-available-for-sale of $60.0 million, purchases
of furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements of
$1.4 million and capitalization of software development
costs of $3.4 million, offset by maturity of short-term
investments of $5.8 million.

Cash provided by investing activities of $2.5 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004 consisted of net
maturities of short-term investments of $9.8 million, which
was offset by purchases of furniture, equipment and leasehold
improvements of $3.4 million and capitalization of software
development costs of $3.6 million, and maturities of
securities provided as collateral of $0.3 million.

Cash used in investing activities of $8.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003 consisted of net purchases of
short-term investments of $4.0 million, securities provided
as collateral of $0.1 million, purchases of furniture,
equipment and leasehold improvements of $1.4 million and
capitalization of software development costs of
$3.3 million.

Financing Activities

Net cash provided by financing activities was $2.7 million,
$54.2 million and $0.1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Financing
activities in 2005 and 2003 were primarily the result of stock
option exercises. Financing activities in 2004 primarily
consisted of proceeds from our initial public offering completed
in November 2004.

Other Factors Influencing Liquidity and Capital
    Resources

We are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, nine of which are
also our stockholders, who are not restricted from buying and
selling fixed-income securities, directly or through their own
proprietary or third-party platforms, with institutional
investors. None of our broker-dealer clients is contractually or
otherwise


obligated to continue to use our electronic trading platform.
The loss of, or a significant reduction in the use of our
electronic platform by, our broker-dealer clients could reduce
our cash flows, affect our liquidity and have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

We believe that our current resources are adequate to meet our
liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at
least the next 12 months. However, our future liquidity and
capital requirements will depend on a number of factors,
including expenses associated with product development and
expansion and new business opportunities that are intended to
further diversify our revenue stream. We may also acquire or
invest in technologies, business ventures or products that are
complementary to our business. In the event we require any
additional financing, it will take the form of equity or debt
financing. Any additional equity offerings may result in
dilution to our stockholders. Any debt financings may involve
restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of
additional capital and other financial and operational matters
related to our business.

We have two major operating subsidiaries, MarketAxess
Corporation and MarketAxess Europe Limited. MarketAxess
Corporation is a registered broker-dealer in the U.S. and
MarketAxess Europe Limited is a registered alternative trading
system in the U.K. As such, they are subject to minimum
regulatory capital requirements imposed by their respective
market regulators that are intended to ensure general financial
soundness and liquidity based on certain minimum capital
requirements. The U.S. and the U.K. regulations prohibit a
registrant from repaying borrowings from its parent or
affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to its parent or
affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result
in a significant reduction in its regulatory net capital
position without prior notification to or approval from its
principal regulator. The capital structures of our subsidiaries
are designed to provide each with capital and liquidity
consistent with its business and regulatory requirements. As of
December 31, 2005, MarketAxess Corporation had net capital
of $14.8 million, which was $13.7 million in excess of
its required minimum net capital of $1.0 million.
MarketAxess Europe Limited had financial resources, as defined
by the FSA, of $10.9 million, which was $7.5 million
in excess of its required financial resources of
$3.4 million.

The Company’s U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess
Corporation, maintains a securities clearing agreement with a
clearing broker that commenced in December 2004. The securities
clearing agreement contains a termination fee. If MarketAxess
Corporation terminates the securities clearing agreement, it is
obligated to pay $10,000. Under the securities clearing
agreement, MarketAxess Corporation maintains a collateral
deposit with the clearing broker in the form of cash or
U.S. government securities. As of December 31, 2005
and 2004, MarketAxess Corporation had $0.5 million and
$0.307 million, respectively, of securities and cash on
deposit with the clearing broker included in securities and cash
provided as collateral.

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contracts that
contain a variety of representations, warranties and general
indemnifications. Our maximum exposure from any claims under
these arrangements is unknown, as this would involve claims that
have not yet occurred. However, based on past experience, we
expect the risk of loss to be remote.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company has provided a funding
guarantee to its U.K. Subsidiaries in the normal course of
business to enable them to meet obligations to individual
creditors through March 31, 2005 to the extent these
subsidiaries cannot meet such obligations themselves. As the
maximum obligation under this arrangement is unknown, and as the
U.K. Subsidiaries are consolidated into the Company, no separate
accrual for such guarantee has been made. As of
December 31, 2005, no funding guarantee to the U.K.
Subsidiaries was necessary due to their profitability.

Effects of Inflation

Because the majority of our assets are liquid in nature, they
are not significantly affected by inflation. However, the rate
of inflation may affect our expenses, such as employee
compensation, office leasing costs and communications expenses,
which may not be readily recoverable in the prices of our
services. To the extent inflation results in rising interest
rates and has other adverse effects on the securities markets,
it may adversely affect our financial position and results of
operations.


Contractual Obligations and Commitments

The following table summarizes our contractual arrangements as
of December 31, 2005.

Payments due by Period

Less than

More than

Total

1 Year

1-3 Years

3-5 Years

5 Years

(In thousands)

Operating leases

$

13,896

$

2,204

$

4,308

$

3,369

$

4,015

Foreign currency forward contracts

13,538

13,538

—

—

—

$

27,434

$

15,742

$

4,308

$

3,369

$

4,015

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk

Market risk is the risk of the loss resulting from adverse
changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates.

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk represents our exposure to interest rate
changes with respect to the money market instruments,
U.S. Treasury obligations and short-term fixed-income
securities in which we invest. As of December 31, 2005, we
invested in corporate fixed-income securities of
$60 million. We do not maintain an inventory of bonds that
are traded on our platform, nor do we act as principal to the
bond transactions completed on our platform.

Derivative Risk

Our limited derivative risk stems from our activities in the
foreign currency forward contract market. We use this market to
mitigate our U.S. dollar versus Pound Sterling exposure
that arises from the activities of our U.K. Subsidiaries. As of
December 31, 2005, the notional value of our foreign
currency forward contracts was $13.6 million, with an
unrealized gain, net of taxes, of $0.1 million. We do not
speculate in any derivative instruments.


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The unaudited supplementary data regarding quarterly results
of operations are incorporated by reference to the information
set forth in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,”
in the section captioned “Quarterly Results of
Operations.”


MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING

Management of MarketAxess Holdings Inc. is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in
Rules

13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)under

the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s internal
control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
    reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
    transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;

(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the Company; and

(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
    of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect
    on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, management
used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission Internal
Control — Integrated Framework.

Based on our assessment and those criteria, management
determined that the Company maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MarketAxess Holdings Inc.:

We have completed an integrated audit of MarketAxess Holding
Inc.’s 2005 consolidated financial statements and of its
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 and audits of its 2004 and 2003
consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

Internal control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting appearing on page 75, that the Company maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects,
based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005,
based on criteria established in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on management’s
assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An
audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we consider
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of


unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/

PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

March 13, 2006


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’

EQUITY AND ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

1.

Organization and Principal Business Activity

MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (the “Company”) was
incorporated in the State of Delaware on April 11, 2000.
Through its subsidiaries, the Company operates an electronic,
multi-dealer to client platform primarily for the trading of
U.S. and European high-grade corporate bonds and sovereign and
corporate bonds issued by entities domiciled in an emerging
markets country. The Company facilitates transactions between
its broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. The
Company’s broker-dealer clients are: ABN Amro, Banc of
America Securities, Barclays, Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas,
Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank AG, DZ
Bank AG, First Tennessee National, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, ING
Financial Markets, JPMorgan, Jeffries & Company, Lehman
Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, The Royal Bank of
Canada, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander Investment
Securities, Société Générale, UBS and
Wachovia.

The Company’s stockholder broker-dealer clients as of
December 31, 2005 include ABN Amro, Banc of America
Securities, Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche
Bank, JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers and UBS. All of these
broker-dealer clients constitute related parties of the Company
(together, the “Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients”).
In addition, Moneyline Telerate (“Moneyline”) provided
certain software development services to the Company and had a
revenue-sharing agreement with the Company, and is also
considered a related party. See Note 8, “Related
Parties.”

The Company’s U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess
Corporation, is a registered broker-dealer with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
and is a member of the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”). The Company also has three
international subsidiaries: MarketAxess Europe Limited
(“MarketAxess Europe”), which is registered as an
Alternative Trading System dealer with the Financial Services
Authority (“FSA”) in the United Kingdom
(“U.K.”), MarketAxess Leasing Limited (collectively
with MarketAxess Europe, the “U.K. Subsidiaries”) and
MarketAxess Canada Limited.

MarketAxess Canada Limited has not been funded. It has applied
for registration under the Securities Act of Ontario and is in
the process of seeking approval for membership with the
Investment Dealers Association of Canada.

On November 4, 2004, the Company completed the initial
public offering of its common stock. Specifically,
5,750,000 shares of common stock, including an aggregate of
750,000 shares of common stock covered by an over-allotment
option granted by the Company to the underwriters, were sold at
a price to the public of $11.00 per share. The aggregate
proceeds to the Company from the offering were approximately
$63,250, before deducting approximately $4,428 in underwriting
discounts and commissions and an estimated $4,883 in other
expenses incurred in connection with the offering.

Additionally, prior to the closing of the initial public
offering, all outstanding shares of redeemable convertible
preferred stock and convertible preferred stock were converted
into 14,484,493 shares of common stock and
4,266,310 shares of non-voting common stock.

2.

Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
the Company and its subsidiaries, MarketAxess Corporation,
MarketAxess Europe, MarketAxess Leasing Limited and MarketAxess
Canada Limited. All intercompany transactions and balances have
been eliminated.

Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
translated using exchange rates at the end of the year; revenues
and expenses are translated at average monthly rates. Gains and
losses on foreign currency translation are included as a
cumulative translation adjustment to Accumulated other
comprehensive (loss) in


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’
Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss).

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash maintained at U.S. and
U.K. banks and in money market funds. The Company defines cash
equivalents as short-term interest-bearing investments with
maturities at the time of purchase of three months or less. Cash
overdraft balances are included in Accounts payable, accrued
expenses and other liabilities.

Short-Term Investments

Short-term investments consist of U.S. government
obligations with maturities of greater than three months and
less than one year at the time of purchase and are reported at
fair value. Short-term investment purchases and sales are
recorded on the trade date.

Securities and Cash Provided as Collateral

Securities provided as collateral consist of
U.S. government obligations and cash. Collectively, these
securities are used as collateral for standby letters of credit,
as collateral for foreign currency forward contracts to hedge
the Company’s net investments in the U.K. Subsidiaries and
as collateral for a broker-dealer clearance account.

Securities Available-for-Sale and

Held-to

-Maturity

The Company has classified certain of its marketable securities
as Available-for-sale securities. Unrealized marketable
securities gains and losses are reflected as a net amount under
the caption of Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) on the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition. Realized gains
and losses are recorded within the Consolidated Statements of
Operations under the caption Other income or expense. For the
purpose of computing realized gains and losses, cost is
determined on a specific identification basis.

The Company has classified certain of its marketable securities
as

Held-to

-maturity, as
the Company has the intent and ability to hold these securities
to maturity. The securities are carried at amortized cost using
the specific identification method. Interest income is recorded
using an effective interest rate, with the associated premium or
discount amortized to interest income. At December 31,
2005, the Company had no Securities-held-to-maturity.

The Company assesses whether an other-than-temporary impairment
loss on the investments has occurred due to declines in fair
value or other market conditions. Declines in fair value that
are considered other than temporary are recorded as charges in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

An allowance for doubtful accounts is based upon the estimated
collectibility of information and user access fees. Additions to
the allowance are charged to Bad debt expense, which is included
in the General and administrative expense on the Company’s
Statements of Operations.

Depreciation and Amortization

Fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The Company uses the straight-line method of depreciation over
three years.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Leasehold improvements are stated at cost and are amortized
using the straight-line method over the lesser of the life of
the improvement or the remaining term of the lease.

Software Development Costs

In accordance with Statement of Position (“SOP”)
No. 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use,” the
Company capitalizes certain costs associated with the
development of internal use software at the point at which the
conceptual formulation, design and testing of possible software
project alternatives have been completed. The Company
capitalizes employee compensation and related benefits incurred
during the preliminary software project stage. Once the product
is ready for its intended use, such costs are amortized on a
straight-line basis over three years. The Company reviews the
amounts capitalized for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the assets
may not be recoverable.

Warrants and Options

A warrant program was put in place in April 2000, pursuant to
which the Company issued a warrant to six of its broker-dealer
clients at the time they made an equity investment in the
Company. The final share allocation under the warrant program
occurred on March 1, 2004. The Company also had a
Broker-Dealer Stock Option program during 2001 and 2002. The
Company accounted for the warrant and option programs in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation.” Expense was recognized on the
measurement date based on the market value of the warrant or
option. Market value was determined using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model.

Stock-Based Compensation for Employees

The Company accounts for stock-based employee compensation plans
in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
(“APB”) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees” (“APB No. 25”), as permitted
by SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.” In accordance with APB No. 25,
compensation expense is recognized for stock awards that have
intrinsic value on the date of grant. Unearned compensation is
amortized and charged to income over the vesting period.

Starting in the Company’s first annual reporting period
after June 15, 2005, the effective date of this statement,
the Company will adopt SFAS No. 123(R),
“Share-Based Payment”
(“SFAS No. 123(R)”), which requires
previously granted but unvested awards to be recorded as an
expense on a prorated basis over the remaining vesting period.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Had compensation expense for employee stock-based awards been
determined based on the fair value at grant date consistent with
SFAS No. 123(R), the Company’s Net income (loss)
for the year would have been increased or decreased to the pro
forma amounts indicated below:

Basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) in 2003
includes the effect of dividends accrued on our redeemable
convertible preferred stock. In 2003, securities that could
potentially dilute basic EPS in the future were not included in
the computation of diluted EPS, because to do so would have been

anti-dilutive.

See
Note 12, “Earnings Per Share”.

Revenue Recognition

The majority of the Company’s revenues are derived from
commissions for trades executed on the electronic trading
platform that are billed to its broker-dealer clients on a
monthly basis. The Company also derives revenues from
information and user access fees, license fees, interest and
other income.

Commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the
notional dollar volume of bonds traded on the electronic trading
platform and vary based on the type and maturity of the bond
traded. Under the transaction fee plans, bonds that are more
actively traded or that have shorter maturities are generally
charged lower commissions, while bonds that are less actively
traded or that have longer maturities generally command higher
commissions. Commissions are recorded on a trade date basis.

The Company’s standard fee schedule for
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds was revised in August 2003
to provide lower average transaction commissions for dealers who
transacted higher U.S. high-grade volumes through the
platform, while at the same time providing an element of fixed
commissions over the two-year term of the plans. One of the
revised plans that was suited for the Company’s most active
broker-dealer clients included a fee cap that limited the
potential growth in U.S. high-grade revenue. The fee caps
were set to take effect at volume levels significantly above
those being transacted at the time the revised transaction fee
plans were introduced. Most broker-dealer clients entered into
fee arrangements with respect to the trading of
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds that included both a fixed
component and a variable component. These agreements had been
scheduled to expire during the third quarter of 2005.

On June 1, 2005, the Company introduced a new fee plan
primarily for secondary market transactions in
U.S. high-grade corporate bonds executed on its electronic
trading platform. As of December 31, 2005, 17 of the
Company’s U.S. high-grade broker-dealer clients have
signed new two-year agreements that supersede the fee
arrangements that were entered into with many of its
broker-dealer clients during the third quarter of 2003. The new
plan incorporates higher fixed monthly fees and lower variable
fees for broker-dealer clients than the previous
U.S. high-grade corporate transaction fee plans described
above, and incorporates volume incentives to broker-dealer
clients that are designed to increase the volume of transactions
effected on the Company’s


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

platform. Under the new fee plan, the Company electronically
adds the variable fee to the spread quoted by the broker-dealer
client but does not charge for inquiries that an institutional
investor client sends to a single broker-dealer client. The
variable fees are dependent on the size of the trade as well as
the yield and maturity of the bond traded. The combination of
higher fixed and lower variable fees in the new plan results in
higher revenue to the Company at lower volume levels but will
limit revenue growth in the future for U.S. high-grade
corporate bond trading as volume levels increase.

On the Company’s European electronic trading platform, each
product traded carries a broker-dealer transaction fee based on
a fee schedule tied to the type and the maturity of the bond
traded. This fee schedule applies a tiered fee structure, which
reduces the fees per trade upon the attainment of certain
specified amounts of monthly commissions generated by a
particular broker-dealer and does not carry a fixed monthly fee
or fee cap.

A standard fee structure is in effect for transactions in
sovereign and corporate bonds issued in emerging markets traded
on the Company’s electronic trading platform. Broker-dealer
clients pay a commission for transactions in sovereign and
corporate bonds issued in emerging markets based on the type and
the amount of the security traded. Commissions for transactions
in more active sectors of the emerging markets are generally
lower.

Broker-dealer clients pay a commission for new issue
transactions that is based on the allocation amount and a
percentage of the new issue selling costs paid by the issuer to
the Company’s broker-dealer client. The commission is
generally lower on larger allocation amounts. There are monthly
fee caps on the level of commission paid by broker-dealer
clients.

Broker-dealer clients pay a commission for transactions in
agency, crossover and high-yield bonds that is calculated based
on a standard schedule that applies to all broker-dealer
clients. The fee generally varies depending on the size of the
transaction and the issue traded.

Commissions for credit default swap index transactions that are
charged to both broker-dealer and institutional investor clients
are calculated as a percentage of the notional value of
transactions. Broker-dealer clients are able to select between
standard fee schedules that contain monthly minimum commissions
and, in some cases, monthly fee caps. Institutional investor
client transaction charges are paid to and collected by
MarketAxess from broker-dealer clients.

The Company charges certain of its institutional investor
clients an information services fee and a monthly user access
fee for the use of its electronic trading platform quarterly in
arrears. These fees charged to institutional investor clients
are reduced or eliminated if institutional investor clients meet
certain minimum quarterly trading volumes.

Revenues associated with the Company’s commission and fee
arrangements are recorded in Accounts receivable, net, in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition to the extent
they have been or will be invoiced, and have not been collected
at December 31, 2005.

The Company enters into agreements with its broker-dealer
clients pursuant to which the Company provides access to its
electronic trading platform through a non-exclusive and
non-transferable license. Broker-dealer clients, other than
those that previously made equity investments in the Company,
pay an initial license fee, which is typically due and payable
upon execution of the broker-dealer agreement. The initial
license fee varies by agreement and at a minimum is intended to
cover the initial

set-up

costs incurred
to enable a broker-dealer to begin using the Company’s
electronic trading platform. Revenue is recognized in the first
three months of the agreement in the estimated amount of the

set-up

costs incurred
(50% in the first month, 40% in the second month and 10% in the
third month), and the remaining amount is deferred and
recognized ratably over the initial term of the agreement, which
is generally three years.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

In 2004, the Company entered into agreements with two
broker-dealer clients that included upfront fees, of which up to
$200 for each broker-dealer client could be offset against
commissions payable to the Company by the broker-dealer clients
during an agreed-upon time period. During the defined period,
both broker-dealer clients generated commission revenue that was
less than $200, and, accordingly, the Company recorded $289 as
additional license fee revenue in 2005.

Income Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability
method in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
“Accounting for Income Taxes”
(“SFAS No. 109”). Deferred income taxes
reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the
financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and
are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be
in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. The
effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax
rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date. A valuation allowance is recognized against
deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that such
assets will not be realized in future years.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts

The Company follows SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and enters
into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its net
investment in the U.K. Subsidiaries. Accordingly, gains and
losses on these transactions are deferred and included in
Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net
income (loss) available to common stockholders, which includes
the effect of dividends accrued on the redeemable convertible
preferred stock, by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding. Common shares outstanding includes common stock and
restricted stock units for which no future service is required
as a condition to the delivery of the underlying common stock.
Diluted EPS includes the determinants of basic EPS and, in
addition, reflects the dilutive effect of the redeemable
convertible preferred shares and the common stock deliverable
pursuant to

in-the

-money stock
options and warrants outstanding.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
“Accounting Changes and Error Corrections”

(“SFAS No. 154”), which supersedes APB
Opinion No. 20, “Accounting Changes,” and
SFAS No. 3, “Reporting Accounting Changes in
Interim Financial Statements.”

SFAS No. 154 provides guidance on the accounting
for and reporting of accounting changes and error corrections.
It establishes retrospective application, or the latest
practicable date, as the required method for reporting a change
in accounting principle and the reporting of a correction of an
error. SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting
changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2005. The Company will apply
SFAS No. 154 in future periods if it becomes
applicable.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),
“Share-Based Payment”
(“SFAS No. 123(R)”), which is a revision of
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,” and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and
requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment
transactions be recognized in the financial statements. This
statement establishes fair value as the measurement objective in
accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires all
entities to apply a fair-value based measurement method in
accounting for share-based payment transactions with employees,
with limited exceptions. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all
share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee
stock options and restricted stock, to be recognized in the
income statement based on their fair values and previously
granted but unvested awards to be recorded as an expense on a
prorated basis over the remaining vesting period. Pro forma
disclosure is no longer an alternative. The new standard is
effective for public entities in the first annual period
beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company will apply the
modified prospective application, without restatement,
commencing January 1, 2006. The Company expects the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will have a material
impact on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of
Operations. See Note 2, “Significant Accounting
Policies.”

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,
“Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity”
(“SFAS No. 150”). SFAS No. 150
establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures
certain financial instruments with characteristics of both
liabilities and equity and imposes additional disclosure
requirements. It requires that an issuer classify a financial
instrument that is within its scope as a liability (or an asset
in some circumstances), because that financial instrument
embodies an obligation of the issuer. Initially,
SFAS No. 150 was effective for all financial
instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003,
and was otherwise effective beginning July 1, 2003. In
November 2003, the FASB deferred the effective date of the
statement with respect to mandatory redeemable financial
instruments of certain nonpublic entities and for certain
mandatory redeemable non-controlling interests. The
implementation of SFAS No. 150 did not have a material
effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation
(“FIN”) No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting
and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees, of Indebtedness of Others.”
(“FIN No. 45”) specifies the disclosures to
be made about obligations under certain issued guarantees and
requires a liability to be recognized for the fair value of a
guarantee obligation. The recognition and measurement provisions
of the interpretation apply prospectively to guarantees issued
after December 31, 2002. Adoption of the recognition and
measurement provisions did not have a material effect on the
Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. See
Note 10, “Commitments and Contingencies.”

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior
years’ financial statements in order to conform to the
current year presentation. Such reclassifications had no effect
on previously reported Net income (loss).


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

3.

Net Capital Requirements and Customer Protection
    Requirements

The Company’s U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation
(known prior to February 2002 as Trading Edge, Inc.
(“Trading Edge”), maintains a registration as a
U.S. securities broker-dealer. Pursuant to the Uniform Net
Capital Rule under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
MarketAxess Corporation is required to maintain minimum net
capital, as defined, equal to the greater of $5 or 6 2/3% of
aggregate indebtedness. A summary of MarketAxess
Corporation’s capital requirements is as follows:

As of December 31,



Net capital

$

14,820

$

19,391

Required net capital

1,105


Excess amount over required net capital

$

13,715

$

18,527

Ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital

1.12 to 1

0.67 to 1

MarketAxess Corporation claims exemption from SEC
Rule 15c3-3, as it does not hold customer securities or
funds on account, as defined.

MarketAxess Europe is subject to certain financial resource
requirements of the FSA. A summary of these financial resource
requirements is as follows:

As of December 31,



Financial resources

$

10,907

$

12,488

Resource requirement

3,290

4,393

Excess financial resources

$

7,617

$

8,095

MarketAxess Corporation and MarketAxess Europe are subject to
U.S. and U.K. regulations as a registered broker-dealer and as
an Alternative Trading System dealer, respectively, which
prohibit repayment of borrowings from the Company or affiliates,
paying cash dividends, making loans to the Company or affiliates
or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a
significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial
resources, respectively, without prior notification to or
approval from such regulated entity’s principal regulator.

4.

Securities

In January 2005, the Company entered into investment advisory
agreements with two of its Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients.

The following is a summary of the Company’s
Securities-available-for-sale as of December 31, 2005:

As of December 31, 2005

Gross

Gross

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Amortized Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Securities available-for-sale

Federal agency issues and municipal securities

$

50,122

—

(119

)

$

50,003

Corporate Bonds

10,000

—

(47

)

9,953

Total Securities-available-for-sale

$

60,122

—

(166

)

$

59,956


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of
Securities available-for-sale as of December 31, 2005:

Less than one year

$

55,956

Due in 1-2 years

4,000

Total

$

59,956

5.

Furniture, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements

Furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements, net, are
comprised of the following:

The Company removed from its books and records fixed assets with
a cost of $16 that are no longer in use. Since these fixed
assets were fully depreciated, there was no effect on the
Consolidated Statement of Operations.

6.

Software Development Costs

Software development costs, net, are comprised of the following:

As of December 31,



Software development costs

$

9,848

$

16,704

Accumulated amortization

(3,649

)

(11,117

)

Total software development costs, net

$

6,199

$

5,587

The Company accounts for software development costs under the
provisions of SOP No. 98-1. During the year ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, software development costs
totaling $3,395 and $3,588, respectively, were capitalized.
Non-capitalized software costs and routine maintenance costs are
expensed as incurred and are included in Employee compensation
and benefits, Technology and communications and Professional and
consulting fees on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

In November 2004, the Company determined that its trading
platform software developed by the Company with input from
Moneyline, a stockholder, would be retired by February 2005.
Therefore, the Company accelerated depreciation of this
software. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company
recorded additional depreciation in the amount of $148. The
Company depreciated an additional $222 and removed


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

capitalized software development, with a cost of $10,252 from
its books and records in the first quarter of 2005. Since this
software was fully amortized, there was no effect on the
Statement of Operations.

7.

Income Taxes

The Company prepares a consolidated tax return with its
U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation. The
Company’s provision (benefit) for income taxes, included in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations as determined in
accordance with SFAS No. 109, is as follows:

The difference between the Company’s reported provision
(benefit) for income taxes and the amount computed by
multiplying pre-tax income by federal statutory rates is as
follows:

The Company is subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax
(“AMT”) that is imposed at the U.S. federal
level. The Company can utilize 90% of its net operating loss
carryforwards against taxable income and the remaining 10% of
taxable income is subject to the AMT tax at a rate of 20%. The
Company has available tax credits, as detailed below, that are
utilized to eliminate the AMT liability.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

The Company has available various tax credits that can be used
to reduce or eliminate current or future tax liabilities. A
summary of these credits and their expiration dates is as
follows:

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company
utilized the remaining $271 of its Liberty Zone tax credits to
reduce its AMT liability.

In 2001, the Company’s subsidiary, MarketAxess Corporation,
had an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382
of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”). As
a result of Section 382 and pertinent tax provisions, the
utilization of $628 of research activity credits and other
credits that expire from 2012 through 2022 may not be utilized
and accordingly, an allowance for these credits has been
established.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

The following is a summary of the Company’s gross deferred
tax asset, reduced to a net deferred asset by a valuation
allowance:

The rollforward of the valuation allowance is as follows:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax
rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are
expected to reverse. The effect on deferred income tax assets
and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income
in the period that included the enactment date. A valuation


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

allowance is recognized against deferred tax assets if it is
more likely than not that such assets will not be realized in
future years.

The ultimate realization of deferred income tax assets is
dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during
the periods in which the temporary differences become
deductible. If it is not more likely than not that some portion
or all of the gross deferred income tax assets will be realized
in future years, a valuation allowance is recorded. The Company
recorded a valuation allowance against its deferred income tax
assets arising from net operating loss carryforwards and tax
credits. As described below, certain of the Company’s net
operating loss carryforwards are subject to significant
limitations on an annual basis pursuant to the Internal Revenue
Code.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had net operating loss
carryforwards for income tax purposes of $104,061. The
U.S. net operating loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2005 totaling $93,465 will begin to expire in
2018 and the U.K. net operating loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2005 totaling $10,596 do not expire. In 2000
and 2001, MarketAxess Holdings Inc. and MarketAxess Corporation
had an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382.
As a result of Section 382 and pertinent tax provisions,
the utilization of $34,281 on a tax basis and $39,214 on a book
basis of the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards
existing at the date of the ownership change is subject to
significant limitations. In addition, the Company’s net
operating loss carryforwards may be subject to additional annual
limitations if there is a 50% or greater change in the
Company’s ownership, as determined over a rolling
three-year period.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
reduced the valuation allowance by $2,918 to $15,218 based on
management’s current assessment of the factors impacting
the valuation allowance previously recorded. Such factors
include management’s expectation of continuing future
profitable operations and judgment concerning future utilization
of certain net operating losses that are subject to
Section 382 limitations prior to their expiration. The
Company believes it is likely, but subject to some uncertainty,
that approximately 69% of the net operating losses will be
utilized prior to their expiration in 2018. In addition, the
Company adjusted the income tax rate used for recording the
deferred tax assets, resulting in a decrease in the deferred tax
assets and an increase in tax expense of $1,754. The Company has
temporary differences (defined as the tax effect of the
difference between the financial reporting basis and the tax
reporting basis of certain balance sheet items) of $8,310
available as of December 31, 2005.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, two related
parties exercised 1,325,602 warrants into
1,325,249 shares of common stock through a non-cash
exercise, resulting in a credit for federal income taxes
purposes of $3,672, which when realized would result in an
increase in Additional paid-in capital. Management believes that
there is sufficient uncertainty with regard to the ultimate
realization of this tax credit and therefore has not recognized
the credit in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
as of December 31, 2005.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company had net operating loss
carryforwards for income tax purposes of $102,939. The
U.S. net operating loss carryforwards as of
December 31, 2004 totaled $90,271 and the U.K. net
operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2004
totaled $12,668. During the year ended December 31, 2004,
the Company reduced the valuation allowance by $46,116 to
$18,136 based on management’s reassessment of the factors
impacting the valuation allowance previously recorded. Such
factors included seven consecutive quarters of profitable
operations in the U.S. and six consecutive quarters of
profitable operations in the U.K., management’s expectation
of continuing future profitable operations, management’s
anticipation that the Company would be able to utilize certain
net operating loss carryforwards in 2004 and the Company’s
ability to utilize certain of the net operating loss
carryforwards in future years prior to expiration. The Company
believed it was likely, but subject to some uncertainty, that
approximately 62% of the net operating losses would be utilized
prior to their expiration. In addition, the Company had
temporary differences of $11,736 available as of
December 31, 2004.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

As of December 31, 2003, the gross deferred tax assets were
$64,252, reduced to a net deferred tax asset of zero by a
valuation allowance of $64,252. The Company’s first
profitable quarter was the second quarter of 2003. While the
Company was forecasting increasing revenues and net income for
2004 and 2005, as evidenced by the projections used for the
valuations of the Company’s common stock as of
December 31, 2002 and 2003, management exercised judgment
in assessing the positive evidence of the three quarters of
profitability and the forecast future year earnings against the
negative evidence of accumulated losses, the uncertainty of
attainment of forecast future year earnings and the potential
likelihood of the realization of the utilization of net
operating loss carryforwards. For the year ended
December 31, 2003, net income was $4,213, bringing the
accumulated losses to $113,794. Additionally, $40,563 of the
Company’s net operating loss carryforwards for financial
income tax reporting purposes of $137,049 is subject to
Section 382 limitations. Accordingly, a 100% valuation
allowance against the deferred income tax assets was deemed
appropriate as of December 31, 2003. The net operating
losses will be carried forward to future years. In addition, the
Company had temporary differences of $13,371 available as of
December 31, 2003. A summary of the Company’s net
operating loss carryforwards and their related expiration dates
is as follows:

Net operating loss carryforward — U.S.

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had net
operating loss carryforwards on a tax basis of $2,006 that
relate to a “single return loss year,” within the
meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, relating to MarketAxess
Corporation that are subject to annual utilization limits.

8.

Related Parties

The following Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients were related
parties as of December 31, 2005: ABN Amro, Banc of America
Securities, Bear Stearns, BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche
Bank, JPMorgan, Lehman Brothers and UBS. In addition, Moneyline,
a stockholder which provided certain software development
services to the Company and had a revenue-sharing agreement with
the Company, is also considered a related party.

As of and for the year then ended, the Company had the following
balances and transactions with stockholders:

As of December 31,



Cash and cash equivalents

$

46,739

$

86,711

Accounts receivable

6,751

7,225

Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities




MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

Year Ended December 31,




Commissions

$

36,588

$

39,307

$

33,023

Information and user access fees

1,052



Interest income, including interest income on employee loans of
    $75, $136 and $37




Other income



—

General and administrative expenses




Securities and cash provided as collateral include $3,299 of
U.S. government obligations as of December 31, 2005
and 2004, on deposit with a related party in its role as a
custodian.

Two Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients act in an investment
advisory and custodial capacity for the Company. As of
December 31, 2005, the securities under management by these
parties are included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Condition as $19,754 in Cash and cash equivalents and $59,956 in
Available-for-sale securities. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, investment advisory fees paid to these
Stockholder Broker-Dealer Clients were $45 and are included in
General and administrative expenses in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations. Also included in General and
administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, are bank fees of $14 and $25 paid to a related
party for each period.

The Company is contingently obligated for a letter of credit
from a related party for $198 as of December 31, 2005 in
relation to the lease of office space for its subsidiaries,
which expires on September 30, 2006. See Note 10,
“Commitments and Contingencies.”

As described above, the Company had an agreement with Moneyline
to assist in developing the Company’s U.S. high-grade
corporate bond and European electronic trading platforms. In
consideration for Moneyline’s contribution of its licensed
technology, the Company issued to Moneyline on April 19,
2000, 175,443 shares of Series B convertible preferred
stock with a fair value of $1,500 that at the time of the
initial public offering converted to 584,810 shares of
common stock. In the event that Moneyline materially breached
the agreement, the Company had the right at any time thereafter,
at its option, to purchase the stock then held by Moneyline at a
price of $3.00 per share. The agreement terminated in
February 2005.

In consideration of Moneyline’s provision of services under
the agreement, the Company paid Moneyline a variable monthly
fee. In addition, Moneyline was entitled to share in a portion
of the Company’s quarterly net revenues, as defined in the
agreement, resulting from trading on the Company’s
U.S. high-grade corporate bond and European trading
platforms. Moneyline’s share of the revenues of the Company
ranged from one to six percent, depending on the amount of the
quarterly net revenues earned by the Company. In May 2004, the
Company ceased using the software relating to the legacy
U.S. high-grade trading platform developed with the
assistance of Moneyline and began using internally-developed
software and in February 2005, also migrated the European
high-grade trading platform to the internally developed software.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

As of and for the year then ended, the Company had the following
balances and transactions with Moneyline:

As of

December 31,



Software development costs, net of amortization

—

$


Year Ended December 31,




Professional and consulting fees

$

—

$

—

$


Moneyline revenue share

(50

)

1,240

1,806

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had loans
outstanding to the Chief Executive Officer of $1,349 and $1,320,
respectively, which are described in more detail in
Footnote 9, “Stockholders’ Equity”. The
accrued interest on the loans is recorded in Accounts receivable
and the principal amount is recorded in Stockholders’
equity as a Receivable for common stock subscribed on the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition for the
respective years.

9.

Stockholders’ Equity

Common Stock

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had
110,000,000 authorized shares of common stock and 10,000,000
authorized shares of non-voting common stock. Common stock
entitles the holder to one vote per share of common stock held.

Non-voting common stock is convertible on a one-for-one basis
into shares of common stock at any time subject to a limitation
on conversion to the extent such conversion would result in a
stockholder, together with its affiliates, owning more than
9.99% of the outstanding shares of common stock.

On March 30, 2004, the Company’s Board of Directors
authorized, and on November 1, 2004 the Company
effectuated, a one-for-three reverse stock split of shares of
common stock and non-voting common stock to be effective prior
to the closing of the Company’s initial public offering.
All references in these financial statements to the number of
shares of common stock and non-voting common stock of the
Company, securities convertible or exercisable therefor and per
share amounts have been restated for all periods presented to
reflect the effect of the common stock reverse stock split.

Restricted Common Stock and Common Stock Subscribed

In 2001, the Company awarded 289,581 shares to the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer at $3.60 per share,
which vested over a three year period. The common stock
subscribed was issued in 2001 in exchange for eleven-year
promissory notes that bear interest at the applicable federal
rate and are collateralized by the subscribed shares.

The Company issued 129,500 shares of restricted stock to
senior management and 50,500 shares of restricted stock to
other employees during the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
During the three months ended March 31, 2005, the Company
cancelled 1,000 shares of restricted stock and during the
three months ended June 30, 2005, the Company cancelled
7,500 shares of restricted stock. As of December 31,
2005, 171,500 shares of restricted stock remain outstanding
to employees. At the date of issue, the Company’s common
stock had a weighted average fair value of $15.37 per
share. The restricted shares issued to senior management vest
over a five-year period and can achieve accelerated vesting if
certain Company performance goals are achieved. The restricted
stock grants issued to other employees vest over a three-year
period.

In August 2005, the Company issued 35,000 shares of
restricted stock to directors. At the date of issuance, the
restricted stock had a weighted average fair value of
$10.04 per share.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

The Company amortizes as earned compensation the fair value of
restricted stock grants over the appropriate vesting periods.
For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company
recognized $613 and $13 respectively of amortization expense
that is included in Employee compensation and benefits. In
addition, the Company recognized $263 of amortization expense
that is included in General and administrative expenses for the
year ended December 31, 2005.

Warrants

In April 2000, the Board of Directors initiated a warrant
program that commenced on February 1, 2001. Under this
program, the Company reserved for issuance 5,000,002 shares
of common stock. The warrants were issued to holders of
Series A, C, E and I redeemable convertible preferred stock
(the “Warrant Holders”). The Warrant Holders are
entitled to purchase shares of common stock from the Company at
an exercise price of $.003 through and including
November 30, 2008.

The warrants were issued to the Warrant Holders at the time that
they made an equity investment in the Company. The warrant
program had two distinct pieces, a U.S. and a European portion,
under which the aggregate number of shares underlying the
warrant to be allocated in each three-month period was fixed.
Allocations under this program commenced on May 1, 2001 for
the U.S. portion and on June 1, 2002 for the European
portion and were based on each broker-dealer client’s
respective commissions as a percentage of the total commissions
from the six participating Warrant Holders, calculated on a
quarterly basis. The final share allocations under the warrant
program occurred on March 1, 2004.

Shares allocated under the warrant program were expensed on a
monthly basis at fair market value in accordance with
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.” The Company determined fair market value of
the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model. To assist management in
determining fair market value of the shares issuable,
independent valuations of the Company’s common stock were
undertaken as of December 31, 2001, December 31, 2002,
September 30, 2003 and December 31, 2003. A number of
factors were considered in the valuations, including the
Company’s current financial condition, its future earning
capacity, the market price of publicly quoted corporations in
similar lines of business and the values of prior sales of
preferred stock. The Company issued preferred stock that is
convertible to common stock on a

3.33-for

-one basis
during 2001 for prices ranging from $35.00 per share to
$45.00 per share and during 2002 at $28.00 per share.

In March 2001, in connection with the acquisition of Trading
Edge, the Company also assumed warrants issued by Trading Edge,
which were converted into warrants exercisable to
purchase 7,967 shares of the Company’s common
stock. During the year ended December 31, 2005, these
warrants expired unexercised.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, two related
parties converted 1,325,602 warrants into
1,325,249 shares of common stock through a non-cash
exercise.

The Company’s warrant activity is summarized as follows:

Weighted-Average

Shares

Exercise Price

Outstanding at December 31, 2003

4,778,800

$

0.222

Allocated

229,169

$

0.003

Outstanding at December 31, 2004

5,007,969

$

0.211

Cancelled

(7,967

)

$

130.65

Exercised

(1,325,602

)

$

0.003

Outstanding at December 31, 2005

3,674,400

$

0.003


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

The following tables summarize information regarding the
warrants:

As of December 31, 2005

Shares of Common

Stock Issuable upon

Weighted-Average

Exercise of

Remaining

Outstanding

Contractual Life

Exercise Price

Warrants

(In Years)

$0.003

3,674,400

2.9

In calculating the fair market value of the warrant allocations,
the following assumptions were used:



Weighted Average Allocation Date Fair Market Value of Common
    Stock

$

16.52

$

5.15

Dividend Yield

0.00

%

0.00

%

Weighted Average Expected Life (years)

4.38

5.38

Weighted Average Risk Free Interest Rate

2.18

%

1.84

%

Expected Volatility

34.43

%

40.28

%

Warrant-related expense was accrued quarterly based on the
pro-rated number of shares to be allocated under the warrant
program and the fair market value of the Company’s common
stock. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the
Company accrued for 152,778 and 1,048,612 shares at a
weighted average fair market value of $16.52 and $5.15,
respectively.

Stock Option Plans

The Company’s 2000 and 2001 Stock Incentive Plans (the
“2000 and 2001 Plans”) provide for the grant of
options or restricted stock as incentives and rewards to
encourage employees, consultants and non-employee directors to
participate in the long-term success of the Company. The 2000
and 2001 Plans provide for the granting of up to
5,082,274 shares of the Company’s common stock at fair
value or at a value other than fair value (determined by the
Board of Directors or a committee thereof) on the date the
option is granted. Generally the options vest over a three-year
period, at a rate of one-third after one year from the grant
date and with the remaining two-thirds vesting on an equal
monthly basis over the remaining two-year period. Options expire
ten years from the date of grant.

In 2004, the Company adopted the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
(“the 2004 Plan”) to enable it to offer certain of the
Company’s key employees, consultants and non-employee
directors equity-based awards in the Company. The terms of the
2004 Plan are substantially the same as those in the 2000 and
2001 Plans, except as follows: the maximum aggregate number of
shares available for grant is different; the Compensation
Committee (the “Committee”) has flexibility to grant
stock appreciation rights, performance shares, performance units
or other stock-based awards (in addition to stock options and
restricted stock); and rights of first refusal and repurchase
rights do not apply to awards granted under the 2004 Plan. A
committee appointed by the Board of Directors, which will
consist of at least two non-employee directors, will administer
the 2004 Plan. With respect to the application of the 2004 Plan
to non-employee directors, the entire Board of Directors will
act as the committee. The 2004 Plan permits the Company to grant
stock options (incentive stock options and non-qualified stock
options), stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
performance shares, performance units and other stock-based
awards (including, without limitation, restricted stock units)
to certain key employees, consultants and non-employee directors
(to the extent permitted by law), as determined by the Committee
in its sole discretion. Up to 2,400,000 shares of the
Company’s common stock, plus 684,802 shares of common
stock transferred to the 2004 Plan from the 2000 and 2001 Plans
on November 2, 2004, may be issued under the 2004 Plan
(subject to adjustment to reflect certain transactions and
events specified in the 2004 Plan). The 2004 Plan provides the
Committee with authority and flexibility to determine the terms
and


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

conditions of the awards at the time of grant. The 2004 Plan is
intended to constitute a plan described in Treasury Regulations
Section 1.162-27(f)(1), pursuant to which the deduction
limits under Section 62(m) of the Internal Revenue Code do
not apply during the applicable reliance period. For the year
ended December 31, 2005, options to
purchase 1,400,750 shares of common stock were granted.

In February 2003, the Board of Directors authorized the grant of
1,000,000 options with an exercise price of $2.70 per share
to a senior officer. Of this amount, 111,111 options were
granted from the 2001 Plan. The remaining amount was authorized
by the Board of Directors outside of the Plans. As of
December 31, 2005, these shares were fully vested.

In November 2004, upon the completion of the initial public
offering, the Company granted to six directors options to
purchase 10,000 shares of common stock each, at an
exercise price of $11.00 per share. The grants vested in
two equal installments on the six-month and twelve-month
anniversaries of the grant date.

The Company’s stock option activity for employees, officers
and directors is summarized as follows:

The following table summarizes information regarding the stock
options granted:

As of December 31, 2005

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted-Average

Remaining

Weighted-Average

Number

Weighted-Average

Range of Exercise Prices

Outstanding

Contractual Life

Exercise Price

Exercisable

Exercise Price

$2.10 - $5.00

2,886,723

6.46

$

2.80

2,843,847

$

2.80

$5.01 - $10.00

124,677

8.58

$

9.09

55,130

$

8.59

$10.01 - $15.00

1,438,653

8.67

$

12.85

581,949

$

13.37

$15.01 - $19.60

718,754

8.82

$

15.82

61,108

$

17.02

As of December 31, 2004

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted-Average

Remaining

Weighted-Average

Number

Weighted-Average

Range of Exercise Prices

Outstanding

Contractual Life

Exercise Price

Exercisable

Exercise Price

$2.10 - $5.00

3,837,716

7.40

$

2.82

3,070,048

$

2.85

$5.01 - $10.00

108,584

9.37

8.77

26,698

7.92

$10.01 - $15.00

827,861

9.12

13.64

1,667

13.95

$15.01 - $19.60

133,421

9.32

17.06

—

—


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

The Company applied APB No. 25 in accounting for the Plans,
and has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of
SFAS No. 123 with respect to options granted to
employees of the Company. All options were issued at what the
Company’s Board of Directors determined to be the
then-current fair market value. To assist in determining fair
market value of the options granted, independent valuations of
the Company’s common stock were undertaken as of
December 31, 2001, December 31, 2002,
September 30, 2003 and December 31, 2003. A number of
factors were considered in the valuations, including the
Company’s current financial condition, its future earning
capacity, the market price of publicly quoted corporations in
similar lines of business and the values of prior sales of
preferred stock. The Company issued preferred stock that is
convertible to common stock on a

3.33-for

-one basis
during 2001 for prices ranging from $35.00 per share to
$45.00 per share and during 2002 at $28.00 per share.

In calculating the fair market value of the options granted, the
following assumptions were used:




Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Market Value of Common Stock

$

14.05

$

16.37

$

4.19

Dividend Yield

0.00

%

0.00

%

0.00

%

Weighted-Average Expected Life (years)

3.00

3.00

3.00

Weighted-Average Risk-Free Interest Rate

3.63

%

2.74

%

1.84

%

Weighted-Average Expected Volatility

20.72

%

28.25

%

40.28

%

10.

Commitments and Contingencies

The Company leases office space under non-cancelable lease
agreements expiring at various dates through 2011. These leases
are subject to escalation based on certain costs incurred by the
landlord.

Minimum rental commitments under such leases, net of sublease
income, are as follows:

Year Ended December 31,

Minimum Rentals


$

2,204


2,154


2,154


2,154


1,215

Thereafter through 2011

4,015

The rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 was $1,953, $1,782 and $1,879, respectively, which
is included in General and administrative expenses in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Rental expense has been recorded based on the total minimum
lease payments after giving effect to rent abatement and
concessions, which are being amortized on a straight-line basis
over the life of the lease, and sublease income.


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

The Company has entered into a sublease agreement on one of its
properties. The following table summarizes information regarding
the sublease provisions:

Sublease Loss Provision as of:

Commencement

Termination

Sublease

December 31,

December 31,

Location

Date

Date

Rental



New York, NY

February 1, 2002

April 30, 2006

$


$

—

$

—

May 1, 2006

April 14, 2011

$


$

1,146

$

1,344

As provided for in the London sublease agreement, in May 2005,
the sublessee exercised its early termination option and paid
the Company’s U.K. subsidiary an early termination fee of
$225. The Company is not anticipating subleasing and will occupy
the space.

The Company is contingently obligated for standby letters of
credit that were issued to landlords for office space. The
Company uses a U.S. government obligation as collateral for
these standby letters of credit. This collateral is included
with Securities and cash provided as collateral on the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and had a fair
market value as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 of $3,299 and
$3,299, respectively.

Between December 2004 and March 2005, MarketAxess Corporation
operated an anonymous matching service for its broker-dealer
clients. MarketAxess Corporation executed trades on a riskless
principal basis, which were cleared and settled by an
independent clearing broker. The securities clearing agreement
that MarketAxess Corporation still maintains with the
independent clearing broker commenced in December 2004. Under
the securities clearing agreement, MarketAxess Corporation
maintains a collateral deposit with the clearing broker in the
form of cash or U.S. government securities. MarketAxess
Corporation was exposed to credit risk in the event a
contra-party did not fulfill its obligation to complete the
transaction. MarketAxess Corporation used various procedures to
manage its credit exposure, including a review of the credit
standing and the establishment of credit limits for each
contra-party.

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, one of the Company’s
subsidiaries had $500 of cash on deposit with the clearing
broker included in Securities and cash provided as collateral on
the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into
contracts that contain a variety of representations, warranties
and general indemnifications. The Company’s maximum
exposure under these arrangements is unknown, as this would
involve future claims that may be made against the Company that
have not yet occurred. However, based on experience, the Company
expects the risk of loss to be remote.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company has provided a funding
guarantee to its U.K. Subsidiaries in the normal course of
business to enable them to meet obligations to individual
creditors through March 31, 2005 to the extent these
subsidiaries cannot meet such obligations themselves. As the
maximum obligation under this arrangement is unknown, and as the
U.K. Subsidiaries are consolidated into the Company, no separate
accrual for such guarantee has been made. As of
December 31, 2005, no funding guarantee to the U.K.
Subsidiaries was necessary due to their profitability.

11.

Segment Information

The Company’s operations as an electronic, multi-dealer to
client platform for the trading of fixed-income securities
constitute a single business segment pursuant to
SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information.” Because of the highly
integrated nature of the financial markets in which the Company
competes and the integration of the Company’s worldwide
business activities,


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

the Company believes that results by geographic region are not
necessarily meaningful in understanding its business.

12.

Earnings Per Share

SFAS No. 128, “Earnings Per Share,” requires
the presentation of basic and diluted EPS in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations. Basic EPS is computed by dividing the
net income (loss) attributable to common stock, which includes
the effect of dividends accrued on the redeemable convertible
preferred stock, by the weighted-average number of shares of
common stock outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS is computed
using the same method as basic EPS, but in the denominator,
shares of common stock outstanding reflect the potential
dilution that could occur if convertible securities or other
contracts to issue common stock were converted into or exercised
for common stock. In 2003, securities that could potentially
dilute basic EPS in the future but that were not included in the
computation of diluted EPS, because to do so would have been
anti-dilutive for the periods presented, included
18,122,659 shares of redeemable convertible preferred
stock, 4,778,800 warrants and 1,709,188 stock options. In
2004, 14,484,493 shares of common stock and
4,266,310 shares of non-voting common stock were included
in the computation of diluted EPS after giving effect to the
conversion of redeemable convertible preferred stock and
convertible preferred stock. Basic and diluted earnings per
share were as follows:

13.

Accounting for Foreign Currency Forward Contracts and Hedging
    Activities

Assets and liabilities denominated in

non-U.S.

currencies
are translated at rates of exchange prevailing on the date of
the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, and revenues
and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange for the
fiscal period. Gains or losses on translation of the financial
statements of a

non-U.S.

operation
are included, net of hedges, in Accumulated other comprehensive
(loss).

The Company has determined that SFAS No. 133,
“Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging
Activities,” allows for investments in foreign operations
to qualify for hedging treatment. The Company enters into
foreign currency forward contracts with a non-controlling
stockholder to hedge its exposure to variability in foreign
currency cash flows resulting from the net investments in its
U.K. Subsidiaries. The Company assesses each foreign currency
forward contract to ensure that it is highly effective at
reducing the exposure being hedged. The Company designates each
foreign currency forward contract as a hedge, assesses the risk
management objective and strategy, including identification of
the hedging instrument, the hedged item and the risk exposure
and how effectiveness is to be assessed prospectively and


MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share amounts)

retrospectively. These hedges are for a one or three-month
period and are used to limit exposure to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuations. A summary of the foreign currency
forward contracts is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Notional value

$

13,632

$

8,311

$

4,231

Fair value

13,538

8,333

4,328

Unrealized gains (losses), net of income taxes


(22

)

(98

)

Realized (losses), net of income taxes

(140

)

(339

)

(11

)

Net change

$

(46

)

$

(361

)

$

(108

)

14.

Retirement Savings Plan and Annual Performance Incentive
    Plan

The Company, through its U.S. subsidiary, MarketAxess
Corporation, offers its U.S. employees the opportunity to
invest in a defined contribution 401(k) plan (the “401(k)
Plan”). The 401(k) Plan is available to all full-time
employees of the Company. The Company made no contributions to
the 401(k) Plan for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004
and 2003, although it has discretion to do so in the future.

The Company adopted the MarketAxess Holdings Inc. 2004 Annual
Performance Incentive Plan (the “2004 Bonus Plan”) for
certain of the Company’s designated key executives to
provide bonus awards to such individuals as an incentive to
contribute to the Company’s profitability. The Compensation
Committee (the “Committee”) or such other committee
appointed by the Board of Directors will administer the 2004
Bonus Plan, and this Committee will select key executives
eligible to participate in the 2004 Bonus Plan each year.

15.

Customer Concentration

During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, no
single broker-dealer client accounted for more than 10% of total
revenue.

16.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is composed of
cumulative currency translation adjustments and unrealized
losses on available-for-sale securities. Cumulative currency
translation adjustments reflect gains or losses on foreign
currency translation from operations for which the functional
currency is a currency other than the U.S. dollar and are
reflected as a component of Stockholders’ equity (deficit)
in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. The
following table presents the accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) balances for the periods presented:

Balance at December 31, 2003

$


Net change

(361

)

Balance at December 31, 2004

(342

)

Net change in foreign exchange hedge

(46

)

Net change in unrealized losses on available-for-securities and
    other, net of income taxes

(94

)

Balance at December 31, 2005

$

(482

)


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures.

Our management, including the Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness
of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that
term is defined in
Rule

13a-15(e)

and
Rule

15d-15(e)

promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the “Exchange Act”), as of December 31,
2005. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls
and procedures are effective to ensure that information required
to be disclosed by MarketAxess in the reports that we file or
submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and to ensure
that information is accumulated and communicated to our
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.

(b)

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting.

See Item 8, page 75, of
this Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

(c)

Attestation Report of the Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm.

See Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm included in Item 8, page 76, of
this Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

(d)

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting.

There were no changes in our internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in
Rule

13a-15(f)

and
Rule

15d-15(f)

under The Exchange Act) during the quarter ended
December 31, 2005 identified in connection with the
evaluation thereof by our management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, that materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

Other Information

None


PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the sections entitled
“Proposal 1 — Election of Directors”
and “Executive Compensation — Section 16
(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the
Company’s definitive Proxy Statement (the “Proxy
Statement”) for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held in the second quarter of 2006. The Company intends to file
the Proxy Statement within 120 days after the end of its
fiscal year (i.e., on or before April 28, 2006).

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled “Executive Compensation
and Related Information” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item 12 with respect to
the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is incorporated herein by reference to the section
entitled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management” in the Company’s Proxy Statement.

The following table provides certain information regarding
common stock authorized for issuance under our equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2005.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Number of Securities

Remaining Available for

Number of Securities

Future Issuance under

to be Issued upon

Weighted-Average

Equity Compensation

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

Plans (Excluding

Outstanding Options,

Outstanding Options,

Securities Reflected

Warrants and Rights

Warrants and Rights

in Column (a))

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders(1)

4,279,918

$

8.57

1,616,492

Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders(2)

888,889

$

2.70

—

Total

5,168,807

$

7.56

1,616,492

(1)

These plans consist of the Company’s 2004 Stock Incentive
    Plan, 2001 Stock Incentive Plan and 2000 Stock Incentive Plan.

(2)

Represents the grant of a stock option to a senior officer. This
    option is now fully vested.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled “Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement.

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled “Principal Accounting
Fees and Services” in the Company’s Proxy Statement.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) Financial Statements and Schedules

The financial statements are set forth under Item 8 of this
Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are
either not required, not applicable, or the information is
otherwise included.

(b) Exhibit Listing


*

Incorporated by reference to the identically-numbered exhibit to
    the registrant’s Registration Statement on
    Form

S-1,

as
    amended (Registration
    No.

333-112718).

**

Filed herewith.

#

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, the registrant has duly caused this
Form

10-K

to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, in the City of New York, State of New York, on this
13th day of March, 2006.

MARKETAXESS HOLDINGS INC.

By:

/s/

Richard M. McVey

Richard M. McVey

President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, this
Form

10-K

has been
signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the
dates indicated:

109