ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

Information provided by the Company or its spokespersons, including information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may from time to time contain forward-looking statements concerning projected financial performance, market and industry sector growth, product development and commercialization or other aspects of future operations. Such statements will be based on the assumptions and expectations of the Company's management at the time such statements are made. The Company cautions investors that its performance (and, therefore, any forward-looking statement) is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various important factors, including, but not limited to, the following may cause the Company's future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement.









Global Economic Conditions.The Company's operations and performance depend significantly on foreign and domestic economic conditions. Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, as well as geopolitical conditions, can result in significant volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets. This volatility and the related economic conditions may negatively impact the Company as customers defer spending in response to tighter credit; higher unemployment; geopolitical tensions and uncertainties; unpredictable government trade, tax or other policies; evolving immigration and other labor policies; financial market volatility; government austerity programs; negative financial news; declining valuations of investments; and other factors. In addition, certain of the Company's customers' budgets may be constrained and may be unable to purchase the Company's products at the same level as they have in prior periods. Customer spending levels may be impacted by trade or tax policies or decreased government spending in certain countries as concerns continue regarding economic conditions and government debt levels. These economic conditions can change abruptly. To the extent the global economy experiences volatility, the Company may be exposed to impairments of certain assets as their values deteriorate.

Tighter credit due to economic conditions may diminish the Company's future borrowing ability. The Company's customers' ability to pay for the Company's products and services may also be impaired, which may lead to an increase in the Company's allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. Since the Company is exposed to the majority of major world markets, uncertainty in any significant market may negatively impact the Company's performance and results, particularly with respect to the Company's largest geographic customer bases. The Company is unable to predict the likely duration and magnitude of changing economic conditions or the likelihood of additional uncertainty arising in any of the Company's key markets.

Decline in Customers' Businesses.The Company's sales are based significantly on end-user demand for products in key industrial sectors. Many of these sectors periodically experience economic declines, which may be exacerbated by other economic factors. These factors may also adversely affect the Company's business by extending sales cycles and reducing revenue. These economic factors may cause the Company's customers to reduce the size of their workforce or cut back on operations and may lead to a reduction in renewals of licenses or maintenance contracts with the Company. The Company's customers may request discounts which may cause fluctuations in the Company's future operating results. The Company may not be able to adjust its operating expenses to offset such fluctuations because a substantial portion of the Company's operating expenses are related to personnel, facilities and marketing programs. The level of personnel and related expenses may not be able to be adjusted quickly and is based, in significant part, on the Company's expectation for future revenue.

Risks Associated with International Activities.A majority of the Company's business comes from outside the United States and the Company has customers that supply a wide spectrum of goods and services in virtually all of the world's major economic regions. If any of the foreign economies in which the Company does business deteriorate or suffer periods of uncertainty, the Company's business and performance may be negatively impacted through reduced customer spending, changes in purchasing cycles or timing, reduced access to credit for its customers, or other factors impacting the Company's international sales and collections. The Company's results may also be negatively impacted by geopolitical tensions, which may result in increased economic volatility.

As a result of its significant international presence, the Company has revenue, expenses, cash, accounts receivable and payment obligations denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, the Company is subject to currency exchange risk. The Company's revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the U.S. Dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the U.S. Dollar weakens. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates will affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In the event that there are economic declines in countries in which the Company conducts transactions, the resulting changes in currency exchange rates may affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company seeks to reduce currency exchange transaction risks primarily through its normal operating and treasury activities, but there can be no assurance that it will be successful in reducing these risks.

Additional risks inherent in the Company's international business activities include imposition of government controls; export license requirements; restrictions on the export of critical technology, products and services; the violation of anti-corruption laws and regulations applicable to the Company, by third parties in countries where such conduct may be permissible or commonplace; political and economic instability; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; changes in data privacy regulations; longer accounts receivable payment cycles; burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, taxes and regulations; protectionist economic policies; new foreign tariffs and trade sanctions; new U.S. export and/or import and doing-business regulations, including new trade sanctions impacting more foreign entities thereby restricting the sale of the Company's products and services to those entities (which may result in an advantage to certain of the Company's competitors who may not be subject to the same regulatory restrictions); and the fact that patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in every foreign country in which the Company sells its products and services. The Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially, adversely affected by any of these risks.









The U.S. government has been requesting foreign governments to renegotiate existing trade agreements with the U.S. and to change currency conversion rates, increasing uncertainty levels in the international trade environment. While preliminary agreements were reached with Mexico and Canada, a high level of uncertainty remains in the future trade conditions, including with China, which may have an impact on the Company's business.

In 2017, the United Kingdom initiated a two-year process to leave the European Union commonly known as “Brexit”. The lack of success of the efforts of the government of the United Kingdom to conclude a withdrawal agreement with the representatives of the European Union creates a high level of uncertainty in the political, legal and economic environment in the United Kingdom, the European Union and the United States. The Company has significant operations in the United Kingdom and the European Union. Ongoing uncertainty or the conclusion of withdrawal terms that are disadvantageous for the Company could negatively impact the Company’s results.

In May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) went into effect in the European Union. These rules outline a comprehensive set of requirements for businesses that use any personal data in-scope for the regulation, including the use of data solely for sales, marketing, or support purposes and with respect to employee data originating in or processed within the European Economic Area. The Company is subject to the requirements of the GDPR with respect to both customer and employee data, for which non-compliance can result in potentially significant monetary penalties and enhanced regulatory oversight of data practices, as well as the basis for a private right of action and class action claims. If the Company fails to comply with the GDPR or a number of other data protection regulations that apply to the Company’s business globally, its reputation may suffer and its financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted.

Sales Forecasts.

Stock Market and Stock Price Volatility.Market prices for securities of software companies have generally been volatile. In particular, the market price of the Company's common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations as a result of factors affecting the Company, the software industry or the securities markets in general. Such factors include, but are not limited to, declines in trading price that may be triggered by the Company's failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. Moreover, the trading price could be subject to additional fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in the Company's operating results, material announcements made by the Company or its competitors, conditions in the financial markets or the software industry generally, or other events and factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control.

Rapidly Changing Technology; New Products; Risk of Product Errors.The Company operates in an industry generally characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions, which can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. A major factor in the Company's future success will be its ability to anticipate technological changes and to develop and introduce, in a timely manner, enhancements to its existing products, products acquired in acquisitions and new products to meet those changes. If the Company is unable to introduce new products and to respond quickly to industry changes, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially, adversely affected.

The introduction and marketing of new or enhanced products requires the Company to manage the transition from existing products in order to minimize disruption in customer purchasing patterns. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, new products or product enhancements, that the new products will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace or that the Company will successfully manage the transition from existing products. Software products as complex as those offered by the Company may contain undetected errors when first introduced, or as new versions are released, and the likelihood of errors is increased as a result of the Company's commitment to the frequency of its product releases. There can be no assurance that errors will not be found in any new or enhanced products after the commencement of commercial shipments. Certain products require a higher level of sales and support expertise. Failure of the Company's sales channel, particularly the indirect channel, to obtain this expertise and to sell the new









product offerings effectively could have an adverse impact on the Company's sales in future periods. Any of these problems may result in the loss of or delay in customer acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to the Company's reputation, or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Product Quality.The Company has separate quality systems and registrations under the ISO 9001:2015 standard, in addition to other governmental and industrial regulations. The Company's continued compliance with quality standards and favorable outcomes in periodic examinations is important to retain current customers and vital to procure new sales. If the Company was determined not to be compliant with various regulatory or ISO 9001 standards, its certificates of registration could be suspended, requiring remedial action and a time-consuming re-registration process. Product quality issues or failures could result in the Company's reputation becoming diminished, resulting in a material adverse impact on revenue, operating margins, net income, financial position and cash flows.

Competition.The Company continues to experience competition across all markets for its products and services. Some of the Company's current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company, and some have well-established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. The Company's current and possible future competitors also include firms that have competed or may in the future elect to compete by means of open source licensing. Parties among the Company's current or future strategic alliances may diminish or sever technical, software development and marketing relationships with the Company for competitive purposes. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income.

Research and Development.The Company devotes substantial resources to research and development. New competitors, technological advances in the software development industry by the Company or by competitors, acquisitions, entry into new markets, or other competitive factors may require the Company to invest significantly greater resources than it anticipates. If the Company is required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, its operating results could decline. In addition, the Company's periodic research and development expenses may be independent of its level of revenue, which could negatively impact its financial results. Finally, there can be no guarantee that the Company's research and development investments will result in products that create additional revenue.

Changes in the Company's Pricing Models.The intense competition the Company faces in the sales of its products and services, and general economic and business conditions, can put pressure on the Company to adjust its prices. If the Company's competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services, or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, the Company may need to lower prices or offer discounts or other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce operating margins and could adversely affect operating results. The Company's maintenance products, which include software license updates and product support fees, are generally priced as a percentage of its new software license fees. The Company's competitors may offer lower percentage pricing on product updates and support that could put pressure on the Company to further discount its new license or product support prices.

Any broad-based change to the Company's prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and service revenues to decline or be delayed as its sales force implements and its customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of the Company's competitors may bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices, product implementations or wider geographical license usage provisions. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that the Company can charge for certain products. If the Company does not adapt its pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of its products or changes in customer demand, the Company's new software license revenues could decrease. Additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers, including software-as-a-service providers, may reduce the average price for the Company's products or adversely affect other sales of the Company's products, reducing new software license revenues unless the Company can offset price reductions with volume increases. The increase in open source software distribution may also cause the Company to adjust its pricing models.

Dependence on Senior Management and Key Technical Personnel.The Company's success depends upon the continued services of the Company's senior executives, key technical employees and other employees. Each of the Company's executive officers, key technical personnel and other employees could terminate his or her relationship with the Company at any time. The loss of any of the Company's senior executives might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of the Company's business objectives and could materially harm the Company's business and customer relationships.

In addition, because of the highly technical nature of the Company's products, the Company must attract and retain highly skilled engineering and development personnel, many of whom are recruited from outside of the United States. The market for this talent is highly competitive. The Company is limited in its ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. If the immigration laws become stricter or the processing of immigration requests becomes more









cumbersome or less efficient, or if the Company has less success in recruiting and retaining key personnel, the Company's business, reputation and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.

Dependence on Proprietary Technology.

Risks Associated with Security of the Company's Products, Source Code and IT Systems.

Policing the unauthorized distribution and use of the Company's products is difficult, and software piracy (including online piracy) is a persistent problem. The proliferation of technology designed to circumvent typical software protection measures used in the Company's products, and the possibility of methods that circumvent the techniques it employs in its products, may lead to an expansion in piracy or misuse of its products and intellectual property. As a result, and despite the Company's efforts to prevent such activities, the Company may nonetheless lose significant revenue due to illegal use of its software, and management's attention may be diverted to address specific instances of piracy or misuse, or to address piracy and misuse in general.

A number of the Company's core processes, such as software development, sales and marketing, customer service and financial transactions, rely on its IT infrastructure and applications. The Company also relies upon third-party products, which are exposed to various security vulnerabilities. Malicious software, sabotage and other cybersecurity breaches of the types









discussed above could cause an outage of the Company's infrastructure, which could lead to a substantial denial of service and ultimately to production downtime, recovery costs and customer claims. This could have a significant negative impact on the Company's business, financial position, profit and cash flows.

The Company has implemented a number of measures designed to ensure the security of its information, IT resources and other assets. Nonetheless, unauthorized users could gain access to its systems through cyber-attacks and steal, use without authorization, and sabotage the Company's intellectual property and confidential data. Any breach of its IT security, misuse or theft could lead to loss of production, recovery costs or litigation brought by employees, customers or business partners, which could have a significant negative impact on the Company's business, financial position, profit, cash flows and reputation.

Implementation of IT Systems.The Company is currently implementing a new Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system. While this system is anticipated to simplify the sales and order processing efforts and to enhance customer service, there is a risk that the project will not achieve the anticipated benefits or that the benefits will not be achieved as quickly as anticipated. There is also a risk that the Company will have to write off previously capitalized expenditures if the project is not successful or if implementation decisions regarding the project are modified. The project implementation timeline and scope may change and become longer and broader as new facets of the design and implementation efforts are undertaken. This may take the attention of key operational management away from other aspects of the business, including the integration of acquisitions, and also result in increased consulting and software costs. These factors may have a significant negative impact on the Company's business, financial position, profit, cash flows and reputation.

Dependence on Channel Partners.The Company continues to distribute a meaningful portion of its products through its global network of independent, regional channel partners. The channel partners sell the Company's software products to new and existing customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer consulting services and provide the first line of technical support. Consequently, in certain geographies, the Company is highly dependent upon the efforts of the channel partners. Difficulties in ongoing relationships with channel partners, such as failure to meet performance criteria or to promote the Company's products as aggressively as the Company expects, and differences in the handling of customer relationships, could adversely affect the Company's performance. Additionally, the loss of any major channel partner for any reason, including a channel partner's decision to sell competing products rather than the Company's products, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Moreover, the Company's future success will depend substantially on the ability and willingness of its channel partners to continue to dedicate the resources necessary to promote the Company's portfolio of products and to support a larger installed base of the Company's products. If the channel partners are unable or unwilling to do so, the Company may be unable to sustain revenue growth.

The Company has been increasing its number of channel partners, particularly in international locations. The business relationships with these channel partners are recently established and could result in additional compliance burdens for the Company. These partners also have a less-established payment history with the Company and revenue from these partners could come with a higher rate of bad debt expense.

During times of significant fluctuations in world currencies, certain channel partners may have solvency issues to the extent that effective hedge strategies are not employed or there is not sufficient working capital. In particular, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, certain channel partners who pay the Company in U.S. Dollars may have trouble paying the Company on time or may have trouble distributing the Company's products due to the impact of the currency exchange fluctuation on such channel partner's cash flows. This may impact the Company's ability to distribute its products into certain regions and markets, and may have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flows.

Revenue Volatility.As described in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company adopted ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018, which significantly impacts the Company's timing, allocation and presentation of lease license, perpetual license and maintenance revenue. Under previous revenue guidance, the Company historically maintained stable recurring revenue from the sale of software lease licenses and software maintenance subscriptions. However, under ASC 606, the license component of lease revenue is recognized up front, whereas, it was recognized ratably over the contract under prior guidance. The post-contract support portion of lease license contracts continues to be recognized over the contract term, but it is now allocated to maintenance and service revenue.

The Company continues to sell perpetual licenses that involve the payment of a single, upfront fee. Historically, these licenses have been more typical in the computer software industry and remain as the preferred licensing approach in certain markets. The revenue associated with perpetual licenses continues to be recognized up front, consistent with prior revenue guidance.

The adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance, coupled with the Company's continued sales of perpetual licenses, creates the likelihood for software license revenue volatility to increase across periods, particularly as compared to the Company's results under the previous revenue recognition standard. The Company's revenue in any period will depend significantly on sales contracts completed during that period.









Renewal Rates for Annual Lease and Maintenance Contracts.A substantial portion of the Company's license and maintenance revenue is derived from annual lease and maintenance contracts. These contracts are generally renewed on an annual basis and typically have a high rate of customer renewal. In addition to the recurring revenue base associated with these contracts, a majority of customers purchasing new perpetual licenses also purchase related annual maintenance contracts. If the rate of renewal for these contracts is adversely affected by economic or other factors, the Company's lease license and maintenance growth will be adversely affected. As a result, the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may also be adversely impacted during those periods.

Risks Associated with Acquisitions.Historically, the Company has consummated acquisitions in order to support the Company's long-term strategic direction, accelerate innovation, provide increased capabilities to existing products, supply new products and services, expand its customer base and enhance its distribution channels. The Company has completed a number of acquisitions in recent years and expects to make additional acquisitions in the future, but may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if suitable candidates are identified, the Company may not be able to complete the business combination on commercially acceptable terms. The process of exploring and pursuing acquisition opportunities may result in devotion of significant management and financial resources.

In addition, for companies acquired, limited experience will exist for several quarters following the acquisition relating to how the acquired company's sales pipelines will convert into sales or revenues, and the conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different than the historical conversion rate. Because a substantial portion of the Company's sales are completed in the latter part of a quarter, and its cost structure is largely fixed in the short-term, revenue shortfalls may have a negative impact on the Company's profitability. A delay in a small number of large, new software license transactions could cause the Company's quarterly software license revenues to fall significantly short of its predictions.

The Company may periodically be involved in business combinations with enterprises that are developmental in nature. While these entities have leading-edge technology, they may not have developed direct or indirect distribution channels and may not have software revenues which cover the ongoing expenses. Therefore, the Company may have a decrease in operating margin and profitability while these types of acquisitions are integrated and the distribution channel incorporates the new product offerings.

As the Company continues to expand through acquisition or strategic transactions, the acquisition of entities or entry into strategic partnerships with companies that will be viewed as competitors by other strategic partners may become more likely. Such acquisitions could have an adverse effect on partnerships or impact sales of the Company's products, which could negatively impact the Company’s results.

Disruption of Operations or Infrastructure Failures.A significant portion of the Company's software development personnel, source code and computer equipment is located at operating facilities in the United States, Canada, India, Japan and throughout Europe. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unforeseen catastrophe at any of these facilities could cause interruptions in the Company's operations, services and product development activities. Additionally, if the Company experiences problems that impair its business infrastructure, such as a computer virus, telephone system failure or an intentional disruption of its information technology systems by a third party, these interruptions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and the ability to meet financial reporting deadlines. Further, because the Company's sales are not generally linear during any quarterly period, the potential adverse effects resulting from any of the events described above or any other disruption of the Company's business could be accentuated if it occurs close to the end of a fiscal quarter.









Risks Associated with Significant Sales to Existing Customers.A significant portion of the Company's sales includes follow-on sales to existing customers that invest in the Company's broad suite of engineering simulation software and services. If a significant number of current customers were to become dissatisfied with the Company's products and services, or choose to license or utilize competitive offerings, the Company's follow-on sales, and recurring lease and maintenance revenues, could be materially, adversely impacted, resulting in reduced revenue, operating margins, net income and cash flows.

Industry Consolidation.Consolidation in industries that utilize the Company’s software may result in combined workforces

where economies of scale and synergies are achieved, and fewer ANSYS software licenses are required. Consolidation may

also result in the newly combined/surviving entity wanting the most favorable pricing from the former contracts and expecting

larger volume discounts on future purchases. If a customer is acquired by an entity that does not utilize ANSYS in favor of a competing product, the Company may not have future orders from the enterprise. Further, consolidation of the Company's competitors may result in synergies that allow those competitors to benefit from broader sales channels and increased access to capital. Any of these impacts could adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Periodic Reorganization of Sales Force.The Company relies heavily on its direct sales force. From time to time, the Company reorganizes and makes adjustments to its sales leadership and/or its sales force in response to such factors as management changes, performance issues, market opportunities and other considerations. These changes may result in a temporary lack of sales production and may adversely impact revenue in future quarters. There can be no assurance that the Company will not restructure its sales force in future periods or that the transition issues associated with such a restructuring will not occur.

Governmental Revenue Sources.The Company's sales to the United States government must comply with Federal Acquisition Regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in penalties being assessed against the Company or an order preventing the Company from making future sales to the United States government. Further, the Company's international activities must comply with the export control laws of the United States and other countries, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010 and a variety of other laws and regulations of the United States and other countries in which the Company operates. Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

In certain circumstances, the United States government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, and certain foreign governments may have the right to terminate contractual arrangements at any time, without cause. The United States, European Union and certain other government contracts, as well as the Company's state and local level contracts, are subject to the approval of appropriations or funding authorizations. Certain of these contracts permit the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to, termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flows.

Contingencies.The Company is subject to various investigations, claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including commercial disputes, labor and employment matters, tax audits and litigations, alleged infringement of intellectual property rights and other matters. Use or distribution of the Company’s products could generate product liability, regulatory infraction, or similar claims by the customers or end users of the Company or its indirect sales partners, government entities, or other third parties. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties, and it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could materially affect the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial position.

Income Tax Estimates.The Company makes significant estimates in determining its worldwide income tax provision. These estimates involve complex tax regulations in a number of jurisdictions across the Company's global operations and are subject to many transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. The final outcome of tax matters could be different than the estimates reflected in the historical income tax provision and related accruals. Such differences could have a material impact on income tax expense and net income in the periods in which such determinations are made.

The amount of income tax paid by the Company is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. These audits can result in additional assessments, including interest and penalties. The Company's estimate for liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions is highly judgmental and actual future outcomes may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Company's estimated tax liabilities, including estimates for uncertain tax positions, in the period the assessments are made or resolved, audits are closed or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. As a result, the Company's effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis.

The Company allocates a portion of its purchase price to goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax-deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the period the impairment is recorded. The Company has recorded significant deferred tax liabilities related to acquired intangible assets that are not









deductible for tax purposes. These deferred tax liabilities are based on future statutory tax rates in the locations in which the intangible assets are recorded. Any future changes in statutory tax rates would be recorded as an adjustment to the deferred tax liabilities in the period the change is announced, and could have a material impact on the Company's effective tax rate during that period.

Changes in Tax Law.The Company's operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. A change in the tax law in the jurisdictions in which the Company does business, including an increase in tax rates, an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, or a decrease in tax rates in a jurisdiction in which the Company has significant deferred tax assets, could result in a material increase in tax expense. Currently, a substantial portion of the Company's revenue is generated from customers located outside the United States, and a substantial portion of assets are located outside the United States. Changes in existing taxation rules or practices, new taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current taxation practices could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or the manner in which the Company conducts its business.

Interest Rates.Borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility use the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. LIBOR is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. These reforms and other pressures may cause LIBOR to disappear entirely or to perform differently than in the past. The consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted, but could include an increase in the cost of the Company's variable rate indebtedness.

Changes in Existing Financial Accounting Standards.Changes in existing accounting rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or the manner in which the Company conducts its business.

In addition, the Company could incur significant costs for changes to its business systems, processes and internal controls as a result of the transition. These costs could have a significant adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. The transition could also cause management to divert time from the day-to-day operations of the Company, which could impact the Company's business. If the Company is unable to successfully transition its business systems, processes and internal controls before the guidance effective date, it could impact the ability to meet financial reporting deadlines. For further information on the impact of recently issued accounting guidance on the Company, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





