ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.

The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important for understanding any
statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplemental Data" of this Form 10-K.

Because
of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and
historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.

If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our
business could be limited.

In
May 2012, we announced a company-wide restructuring plan. The restructuring plan includes both voluntary early retirement programs and non-voluntary workforce reductions. Significant
risks associated with these actions that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or that may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce
reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of
employees. In addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these actions within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These
estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we
experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.

Competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects.

We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target
our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our
products, account relationships, customer training, service and support,









security,
availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of
those criteria, our results of operations and prospects could be harmed.

We
have a large portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across all of those businesses while competing with companies that have much smaller portfolios or specialize in one
or more of these product lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing
resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. Industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors
in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers.

Companies
with whom we have alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our
competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our cash flows and results of operations could be
adversely affected.

We
face aggressive price competition for our products and services and, as a result, we may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive,
while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete may be able to
offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures.

Because
our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our
competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be
adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain
areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects.

Even
if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains
technology that is becoming obsolete. For example, our Storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market
transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. In addition, the performance of our Business Critical Systems business
unit has been affected by the decline in demand for UNIX servers and concerns about the development of new versions of software to support our Itanium-based products. Revenue and margins also could
decline due to increased competition from other types of products. For example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices and the development of cloud-based solutions has
reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. In addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of HP's LaserJet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies
business.

If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for
innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer.

Our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we adapt to a changing and hybrid
model of IT delivery and consumption driven by the growing adoption of cloud computing and increased demand for integrated IT solutions. To successfully execute









on
this strategy, we need to continue evolving our focus towards the delivery of integrated IT solutions for our customers and to continue to invest and expand into cloud computing, security, big data
and mobility. Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operation and
financial results.

The
process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly
and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. For
example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy
cloud-based solutions for our customers. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain, and protect, appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and
other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. In addition, after we develop a product, we must be able to
manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet
customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution
could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position.

Our plan to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not be completed in accordance with the expected
plans or anticipated timeline, or at all, and will involve significant time and expense, which could disrupt or adversely affect our business.

On October 6, 2014, we announced plans to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies. The separation, which is
currently targeted to be completed by the end of fiscal 2015, is subject to approval by our Board of Directors of the final terms of the separation and market, regulatory and certain other conditions.
Unanticipated developments, including changes in the competitive conditions of Hewlett-Packard Enterprise's and HP Inc.'s respective markets, possible delays in obtaining various tax opinions
or rulings, regulatory approvals or clearances, the uncertainty of the financial markets and challenges in executing the separation, could delay or prevent the









completion
of the proposed separation, or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are different or less favorable than expected.

We
have established a Separation Management Office tasked with driving the separation process. We expect that the process of completing the proposed separation will be time-consuming and
involve significant costs and expenses, which may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate and may not yield a discernible benefit if the separation is not completed. Executing the
proposed separation will require significant time and attention from our senior management and employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations. We may
also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees during the pendency of the separation and following its completion, which could harm our businesses.

The separation may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits.

We may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation.
As independent publicly-traded companies, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. will be smaller, less diversified companies with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to
changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect their respective business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that the combined
value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred.

The proposed separation may result in disruptions to, and negatively impact our relationships with, our customers and other business partners.

Uncertainty related to the proposed separation may lead customers and other parties with which we currently do business or may do
business in the future to terminate or attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships, or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. These disruptions
could have a material and adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The effect of such disruptions could be exacerbated by any delays in the
completion of the separation.

The separation could result in substantial tax liability.









Economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses.

Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and
services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in
increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. For example, we are continuing to experience macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the Europe, the
Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") region, China and other high-growth markets. The U.S. federal government spending cuts that went into effect on March 1, 2013 may further reduce demand for our
products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce
demand for our products, services and solutions. Economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher
allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and
expenses.

We
also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and
increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other
factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. In addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers—and our
suppliers from their suppliers—due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit.

Economic
weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any
significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of
market volatility and disruption. Poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher
pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. Interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates,
costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses.

The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable.

Our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will
likely be different in future periods than our current results. Our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in IT spending could have a material
adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. In addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses, particularly our services
businesses, may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product,
service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. Competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on
our overall gross margin and profitability. Certain segments have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and
may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with
entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and









maintaining
the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of
products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given
period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because
the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period.

If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margins and profitability could suffer.

We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both
direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our
products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model
for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. Other distribution risks are described below.

•Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of
our channel partners were to weaken.

Our
results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the
loss of retail shelf space. Moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including
economic weakness and industry consolidation. Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. Considerable trade
receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience
disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken.•Our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors.

We
must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. Distributors may increase orders during periods of
product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and
the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make
forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our
willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to
price our products effectively.

We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly.

Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability
to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules. Given the wide variety









of
systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture,
assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning, and inventory management that could seriously harm us. In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize
the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource intensive than expected. Other supplier problems that we could face include
component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source
suppliers, as described below.

•

Shortages.



•

Oversupply.In order to secure components for the
provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in
advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply
could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin.

•

Contractual terms.As a result of binding price or
purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond
to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to
components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. In addition, many of our competitors obtain products or
components from the same OMs and suppliers that we utilize. Our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of
products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain OMs and suppliers could be limited. The practice employed by our PC business of
purchasing product components and transferring those components to its OMs may create large supplier receivables with the OMs that, depending on the financial condition of the OMs, may
create collectibility risks. In addition, certain of our OMs and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. Any of these actions by our competitors, OMs or
suppliers could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition.









•

Contingent workers.We also rely on third-party suppliers
for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims
relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent
workers. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws.

•

Single source suppliers.

Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.









infrastructure
of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain
geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain.

Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable.

In some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's
total sales occurs towards the end of such quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult,
increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially
greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of
each quarter. Depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely
impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected.

We
experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. For example, sales to governments
(particularly sales to the U.S. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and
calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year.
European sales are often weaker during the summer months. Demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. Moreover, to the extent
that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches.
Typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control.

Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition.

Sales outside the United States make up approximately 65% of our net revenue. In addition, an increasing portion of our business
activity is being conducted in emerging
markets, including Brazil, Russia, India and China. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors,
including:

•ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation,
recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts;•longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers;•trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products;•local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific HP suppliers and OMs;•managing a geographically dispersed workforce;•changes in the regulatory or legal environment;









•differing technology standards or customer requirements;•import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments,
which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for
components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions;•difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax
laws; and•fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the
transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments.

The
factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on manufacturers in
Taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture.

In
many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us,
such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"). For example, as discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the German Public Prosecutor's Office has been
investigating allegations that certain current and former employees of HP engaged in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion. In addition, the Polish Central Anti-Corruption Bureau is conducting
investigations into potential FCPA violations by a former employee of an HP subsidiary in connection with certain public-sector transactions in Poland. Although we implement policies and procedures
designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in
violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.









Any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results,
business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are
different than expected.

As part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances
and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify
candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired
businesses, products, services or employees. Risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross
margin, profitability and financial results:

•

Managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may
divert our attention from other business operations.

•

We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the
timeframe for realizing benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers or other third-parties.

•

Business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future may result, in significant costs and
expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of
duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to
executive officers and key employees under retention plans.

•

Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business
combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable.

•

Our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to
evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third-parties or their representatives.

•

Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial
disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies.

•

The pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make
estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs,
timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated.

•

In order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating
dilution for existing stockholders.

•

We may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential
future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition.

•

Our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could
adversely impact our effective tax rate.









•An announced business combination and investment transaction may not close timely or at all, which may cause our
financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter.•Business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation.•If we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that
further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage.

We
have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment
transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to
incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. For example, in our third fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.0 billion impairment charge relating to the
goodwill associated with our enterprise services reporting unit within our former Services segment and a $1.2 billion impairment charge as a result of an asset impairment analysis of the
"Compaq" trade name acquired in 2002. In addition, in our fourth fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.8 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill and intangible assets associated
with Autonomy. If there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which
may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges.

Integration
issues are often complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business.
The challenges involved in integration include:

•

combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are
developing expertise;

•

convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus,
persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer
uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts;

•

consolidating and rationalizing corporate IT infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various
acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes;

•

minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns;

•

persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees,
engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-U.S. employees, integrating employees into HP, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring
programs;

•

coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries,
facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures;

•

achieving savings from supply chain integration; and

•

managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions.

While
we do not currently plan to divest any of our major businesses, we do regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our
objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the
achievement of our strategic









objectives.
We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. In addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact
of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. After reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to
satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the
transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial
obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results.

Our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third
parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights.

We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States, similar laws in other countries, and agreements
with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations.
However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage
of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to
our competitive position. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be
unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our competitive position.

Because
of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by
third-parties. We may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third-parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third-parties may demand cross-licenses to
our intellectual property. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third-parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business
may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may
be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights.

Third-parties
also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. For example, individuals and groups may purchase intellectual
property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as HP and its customers. The number of these claims has increased in
recent periods and may continue to increase in the future. If we cannot or do not license infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar
technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. Even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend
against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly
settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an
agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us.









Our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services business properly.

The risks that accompany our services business differ from those of our other businesses and include the
following:

•

The success of our services business is to a significant degree dependent on our ability to retain our significant
services clients and maintain or increase the level of revenues from these clients. We may lose clients due to their merger or acquisition, business failure, contract expiration or their selection of
a competing service provider or decision to in-source services. In addition, we may not be able to retain or renew relationships with our significant clients. As a result of business downturns or for
other business reasons, we are also vulnerable to reduced processing volumes from our clients, which can reduce the scope of services provided and the prices for those services. We may not be able to
replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost clients or reductions in services. In addition, our contracts may allow a client to terminate the contract for convenience, and we may not be able
to fully recover our investments in such circumstances.

•

The pricing and other terms of some of our IT services agreements, particularly our long-term IT outsourcing services
agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in
connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse
effect on the profit margin of our IT services business.

•

Some of our IT services agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered
through billings over the life of the agreement. These agreements often involve the construction of new IT systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies.
Substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the
development, construction and deployment phases. Any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation,
which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our IT services business.









•

Some of our outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study
by a mutually acceptable third-party. The benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a
peer comparison group, subject to agreed upon adjustment and normalization factors. Generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range, and the
difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate adjustments to the pricing. This may result in the reduction of our rates
for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could decrease the cash flows of our IT services business.

•

If we do not hire, train, motivate and effectively utilize employees with the right mix of skills and experience in the
right geographic regions to meet the needs of our services clients, our profitably could suffer. For example, if our employee utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the level of engagement
of our employees could suffer. If that utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition and the quality of the work performed, as well as our ability
to staff projects. If we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current demand, we might need to redeploy existing personnel, increase
our reliance on subcontractors or increase employee compensation levels, all of which could also negatively affect our profitability. In addition, if we have more employees than we need with certain
skill sets or in certain geographies, we may incur increased costs as we work to rebalance our supply of skills and resources with client demand in those geographies.

Failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.

Our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. In particular, our contracts with
federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and
performance. Any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil
and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future
government contracting. In addition, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our
government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its
accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. If our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our
ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a reduction in expected revenue.

HP's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of HP's stock difficult to predict.

HP's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. Some of the factors that could affect our stock price
are:

•speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business,
strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our
investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or









investment
transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general;•the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions,
divestitures or other significant transactions by HP or its competitors;•quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment
community or financial outlook provided by HP and variations between actual and estimated financial results;•announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by HP's competitors and other companies in the IT industry;•developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and•the timing and amount of share repurchases by HP.

General
or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to HP's performance also may
affect the price of HP stock. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In
addition, as discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are involved in several securities class action litigation matters. Additional volatility in the price of our
securities could result in the filing of additional securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources.

Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets.

Our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. Two of those rating agencies, Moody's Investors Service and
Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, downgraded our ratings once during fiscal 2012, and a third rating agency, Fitch Ratings, downgraded our ratings twice during that fiscal year. In addition,
Moody's Investors Service downgraded our ratings again in November 2012. Our credit ratings remain under negative outlook by Moody's Investors Service. Past downgrades have increased the cost of
borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. There can be
no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our
ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets.

We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of HP's Consolidated Financial Statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could
adversely affect our results of operations.

In connection with the preparation of HP's Consolidated Financial Statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on
historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in
Item 7 of this report. In addition, as discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal
proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are
beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations.









Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability.

In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us.

System security risks, data protection breaches, cyber attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services
provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.

Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our
confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and









deploy
viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and
operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly
interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities
could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that
may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions.

We
manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. In addition, our outsourcing services business routinely processes,
stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent
disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information
or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and
potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. We also could lose existing or potential customers of outsourcing services or other IT solutions or incur
significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. In addition, the cost and operational
consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant.

Portions
of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes
place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and
resource intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers
resulting from these disruptions could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.

Terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price.

Terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees,
facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other
critical business operations. The potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts
or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. In addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, actions against
or by the United States may impact our business or employees. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in
demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our
supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars.









Unforeseen environmental costs could adversely affect our business and results of operations.

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws
addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the
recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. In particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and
procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those
products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non- compliant with
environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. Our potential exposure includes fines and
civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. Further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed
retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. The amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict.

Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.

We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or
discouraging an acquisition of HP deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions:

•authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights
superior to our common stock;•limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;•specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and
otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;•requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for
nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; and•controlling the procedures for conduct of our Board of Directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and
removal of our directors.

These
provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of HP. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to
provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of
the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock.

Any
provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of HP could limit the opportunity for our
stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of HP stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for HP stock.

