Item 1. Business.

Overview

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to
herein as we, our, us or Gallagher, are engaged in providing insurance brokerage and consulting services and third-party claims settlement and administration services to both domestic and international entities. We believe that our major strength is
our ability to deliver comprehensively structured insurance, risk management and consulting services to our clients. Our brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries between insurers and their customers.

Since our founding in 1927, we have grown from a one-person agency to the world’s fourth largest insurance broker based on revenues, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 20, 2015 edition, and the world’s largest property/casualty third-party claims administrator, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s March 30, 2015 edition. We have three
reportable segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate, which contributed approximately 62%, 13% and 25%, respectively, to 2015 revenues. We generate approximately 68% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments
domestically, with the remaining 32% derived internationally, primarily in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the United Kingdom (U.K.). Substantially all of the revenues of the corporate segment are generated in the United
States (U.S.).

Shares of our common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AJG, and we had a market capitalization
at December 31, 2015 of approximately $7.2 billion. Information in this report is as of December 31, 2015 unless otherwise noted. We were reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1972. Our executive offices are located at Two
Pierce Place, Itasca, Illinois 60143-3141, and our telephone number is(630) 773-3800.

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Potential factors that could impact
results include:



•Failure to successfully and cost-effectively integrate recently acquired businesses and their operations or fully realize synergies from such
acquisitions in the expected time frame;



•Volatility or declines in premiums or other adverse trends in the insurance industry;



•An economic downturn;



•Competitive pressures in each of our businesses;



•Risks that could negatively affect the success of our acquisition strategy, including continuing consolidation in our industry and growing interest in
acquiring insurance brokers on the part of private equity firms, which could make it more difficult to identify targets and could make them more expensive, the risk that we may not receive timely regulatory approval of desired transactions,
execution risks, integration risks, the risk of post-acquisition deterioration leading to intangible asset impairment charges, and the risk we could incur or assume unanticipated regulatory liabilities such as those relating to violations of
anti-corruption and sanctions laws;



•Our failure to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;








•Risks arising from our growing international operations, including the risks posed by political and economic uncertainty in certain countries
(including the risks posed by protectionist local governments and underdeveloped or evolving legal systems), risks related to maintaining regulatory and legal compliance across multiple jurisdictions (such as those relating to violations of
anti-corruption, sanctions and privacy laws), and risks arising from the complexity of managing businesses across different time zones, geographies, cultures and legal regimes;



•Risks particular to our risk management segment, including that the trend toward outsourcing claims administration will slow, and that of concentration
of large amounts of revenue with certain clients;



•The lower level of predictability inherent in contingent and supplemental commissions versus standard commissions;



•Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits;



•Our failure to apply technology effectively in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions, or failure to gain internal
efficiencies and effective internal controls through the application of technology and related tools;



•Our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster, cybersecurity attack or other significant disruption to business continuity;



•Damage to our reputation;



•Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including those related to governance and control requirements in particular jurisdictions,
international sanctions, or a change in regulations or enforcement policies that adversely affects our operations (for example, relating to insurance broker compensation methods or the failure of state and local governments to follow through on
agreed-upon income tax credits or other related incentives, relating to our planned new corporate headquarters);



•Violations or alleged violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 or other anti-corruption laws and the
Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act, (which we refer to as FATCA);



•The outcome of any existing or future investigation, review, regulatory action or litigation;



•Our failure to adapt our services to changes resulting from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education
Affordability Reconciliation Act;



•Unfavorable determinations related to contingencies and legal proceedings;



•Improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary data;



•Significant changes in foreign exchange rates;



•Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions;



•Risks related to our clean energy investments, including the risk of intellectual property claims, utilities switching from coal to natural gas,
environmental and product liability claims, and environmental compliance costs;



•Disallowance of Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which we refer to as IRC) Section 29 or IRC Section 45 tax credits;



•The risk that our outstanding debt adversely affects our financial flexibility and restrictions and limitations in the agreements and instruments
governing our debt;



•The risk we may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions from subsidiaries;



•The risk of share ownership dilution when we issue common stock as consideration for acquisitions and for other reasons; and



•Volatility of the price of our common stock.

Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of, and are based on information available to us on, the date of the applicable document. All subsequent
written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to
update any such statements or release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risk factors
referred to above. Our future performance and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information
about factors that could materially affect Gallagher, including our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in the “Risk Factors” section in Part I, Item 1A of this report.






Operating Segments

We report our results in three segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate. The major sources of our operating revenues are commissions, fees and supplemental and contingent commissions from
brokerage operations and fees from risk management operations. Information with respect to all sources of revenue, by segment, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, is as follows (in millions):



201520142013Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalBrokerageCommissions$2,338.744%$2,083.045%$1,553.149%Fees705.813%577.012%432.514%Supplemental commissions125.52%104.02%77.33%Contingent commissions93.72%84.72%52.12%Investment income and other60.31%47.61%11.3—%3,324.062%2,896.362%2,126.368%Risk ManagementFees726.513%681.315%627.019%Investment income0.6—%1.0—%2.0—%727.113%682.315%629.019%CorporateClean energy and other investment income1,341.325%1,047.923%424.313%Total revenues$5,392.4100%$4,626.5100%$3,179.6100%

See 19 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information, including earnings before
income taxes and identifiable assets by segment for 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Our business, particularly our brokerage business, is subject to
seasonal fluctuations. Commission and fee revenues, and the related brokerage and marketing expenses, can vary from quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of policy inception dates and the timing of receipt of information from insurance
carriers. On the other hand, salaries and employee benefits, rent, depreciation and amortization expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. The timing of acquisitions, recognition of books of business gains and losses and the
variability in the recognition of IRC Section 45 tax credits also impact the trends in our quarterly operating results. See Note 18 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements for unaudited quarterly operating results for 2015 and 2014.

Brokerage Segment

The
brokerage segment accounted for 62% of our revenues in 2015. Our brokerage segment is primarily comprised of retail and wholesale insurance brokerage operations. Our retail brokerage operations negotiate and place property/casualty,
employer-provided health and welfare insurance, and healthcare exchange and retirement solutions principally for middle-market commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and not-for-profit entities. Many of our retail brokerage customers
choose to place their insurance with insurance underwriters, while others choose to use alternative vehicles such as self-insurance pools, risk retention groups or captive insurance companies. Our wholesale brokerage operations assist our brokers
and other unaffiliated brokers and agents in the placement of specialized, unique and hard-to-place insurance programs.

Our primary sources
of compensation for our retail brokerage services are commissions paid by insurance companies, which are usually based upon either a percentage of the premium paid by insureds, and brokerage and advisory fees paid directly by our clients. For
wholesale brokerage services, we generally receive a share of the commission paid to the retail broker from the insurer. Commission rates are dependent on a number of factors, including the type of insurance, the particular insurance company
underwriting the policy and whether we act as a retail or wholesale broker. Advisory fees are dependent on the extent and value of the services we provide. In addition, under certain circumstances, both retail brokerage and wholesale brokerage
services receive supplemental and contingent commissions. A supplemental commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier that is above the base commission paid, is determined by the insurance carrier and is established annually in advance of
the contractual period based on historical performance criteria. A contingent commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier based on the overall profit and/or the overall volume of business placed with that insurance carrier during a
particular calendar year and is determined after the contractual period.

We operate our brokerage operations through a network of more than
570 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and in 30 other countries. Most of these offices are fully staffed with sales and service personnel. In addition, we offerclient-servicecapabilities
in more than 150 countries around the world through a network of correspondent brokers and consultants.






Retail Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our retail insurance brokerage operations accounted for 83% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2015. Our retail brokerage operations place nearly all lines of commercial property/casualty and health and
welfare insurance coverage. Significant lines of insurance coverage and consultant capabilities are as follows:



AviationDisabilityGeneral LiabilityProducts LiabilityCasualtyEarthquakeHealth & WelfareProfessional LiabilityClaims AdvocacyErrors & OmissionsHealthcare AnalyticsPropertyCommercial AutoExchange SolutionsHuman ResourcesRetirementCompensationExecutive BenefitsInstitutional InvestmentVoluntary BenefitsCyber LiabilityFiduciary ServicesLoss ControlWindDentalFine ArtsMarineWorkers’ CompensationDirectors & Officers LiabilityFireMedical

Our retail brokerage operations are organized into approximately 500 office locations primarily located in the U.S.,
Australia, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the U.K., and operate within certain key niche/practice groups, which account for approximately 68% of our retail brokerage revenues. These specialized teams target areas of business and/or
industries in which we have developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant niche/practice groups we serve are as follows:



AgribusinessGlobal RisksMarineReligious/Not-for-ProfitAutomotiveHealthcarePersonalRestaurantAviation & AerospaceHigher EducationPrivate EquityScholasticConstructionHospitalityProfessional GroupsTechnology/TelecomEnergyLife SciencePublic EntityTrade Credit/Political RiskEntertainmentLife SolutionsReal EstateTransportationEnvironmentalManufacturing

Our specialized focus on these niche/practice groups allows for highly-focused marketing efforts and facilitates the
development of value-added products and services specific to those industries or business segments. We believe that our detailed understanding and broad client contacts within these niche/practice groups provide us with a competitive advantage.

We anticipate that our retail brokerage operations’ greatest revenue growth over the next several years will continue to come from:



•Mergers and acquisitions;



•Our niche/practice groups and middle-market accounts;



•Cross-selling other brokerage products to existing customers; and



•Developing and managing alternative market mechanisms such as captives, rent-a-captives and deductibleplans/self-insurance.

Wholesale Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our wholesale insurance brokerage operations accounted for 17% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2015. Our wholesale brokers assist our retail brokers
and other non-affiliated brokers in the placement of specialized and hard-to-place insurance. These brokers operate through more than 70 office locations primarily located across the U.S., Bermuda and through our approved Lloyd’s of London
brokerage operation. In certain cases, we act as a brokerage wholesaler and, in other cases, we act as a managing general agent or managing general underwriter distributing specialized insurance coverages for insurance carriers. Managing general
agents and managing general underwriters are agents authorized by an insurance company to manage all or a part of the insurer’s business in a specific geographic territory. Activities they perform on behalf of the insurer may include marketing,
underwriting (although we do not assume any underwriting risk), issuing policies, collecting premiums, appointing and supervising other agents, paying claims and negotiating reinsurance.

More than 80% of our wholesale brokerage revenues come from non-affiliated brokerage customers. Based on revenues, our domestic wholesale brokerage operation ranked as one of the largest domestic managing
general agents/underwriting managers/wholesale brokers/Lloyds coverholders according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s August 31, 2015 edition.

We anticipate growing our wholesale brokerage operations by increasing the number of broker-clients, developing new managing general agency and underwriter programs, and through mergers and acquisitions.






Risk Management Segment

Our risk management segment accounted for 13% of our revenues in 2015. Our risk management segment provides contract claim settlement and administration services for enterprises that choose to self-insure
some or all of their property/casualty coverages and for insurance companies that choose to outsource some or all of their property/casualty claims departments. Approximately 69% of our risk management segment’s revenues are from workers’
compensation related claims, 27% are from general and commercial auto liability related claims and 4% are from property related claims. In addition, we generate revenues from integrated disability management (employee absence management) programs,
information services, risk control consulting (loss control) services and appraisal services, either individually or in combination with arising claims. Revenues for risk management services are comprised of fees generally negotiated in advance on a
per-claim or per-service basis, depending upon the type and estimated volume of the services to be performed.

Risk management services are
primarily marketed directly to Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies,not-for-profitorganizations and public entities on an independent basis from our
brokerage operations. We manage our third-party claims adjusting operations through a network of more than 110 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Most of these offices are fully staffed with claims
adjusters and other service personnel. Our adjusters and service personnel act solely on behalf and under the instruction of our clients and customers.

While this segment complements our insurance brokerage offerings, more than 90% of our risk management segment’s revenues come from non-affiliated brokerage customers, such as insurance companies and
clients of other insurance brokers. Based on revenues, our risk management operation ranked as the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims administrator according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s March 30, 2015
edition.

We expect that the risk management segment’s most significant growth prospects through the next several years will come from:



•Increased levels of business with Fortune 1000 companies;



•Larger middle-market companies, captives;



•Program business and the outsourcing of insurance company claims departments; and



•Mergers and acquisitions.

Corporate Segment

The corporate segment
accounted for 25% of our revenues in 2015. The corporate segment reports the financial information related to our debt, clean energy investments, external acquisition-related expenses and other corporate costs. The revenues reported by this segment
in 2015 resulted primarily from our consolidation of refined fuel operations that we control and own more than 50% of and from leased facilities we operate and control. At December 31, 2015, significant investments managed by this segment
include:

Clean Coal Related Ventures

We have a 46.5% interest in Chem-Mod LLC (Chem-Mod), a privately-held enterprise that has commercialized multi-pollutant reduction technologies to reduce mercury, sulfur dioxide and other emissions at
coal-fired power plants. We also have a 12.0% interest in a privately-held start-up enterprise, C-Quest Technology LLC, which owns technologies that reduce carbon dioxide emissions created by burning fossil fuels.

Tax-Advantaged Investments

In 2009 and
2011, we built a total of 29 commercial clean coal production plants to produce refined coal using Chem-Mod’s proprietary technologies and in 2013, we purchased a 99% interest in a limited liability company that has ownership interests in four
limited liability companies that own five commercial clean coal production plants. We believe these operations produce refined coal that qualifies for tax credits under IRC Section 45. The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits
substantially expires in December 2019 for the fourteen plants we built and placed in service in 2009 (2009 Era Plants) and in December 2021 for the fifteen plants we built and placed in service in 2011, plus the five plants we purchased interests
in that were placed in service in 2011 (2011 Era Plants).






International Operations

Our total revenues by geographic area for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 were as follows (in millions):



201520142013Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalBrokerage and risk management segmentsUnited States$2,713.968%$2,405.968%$2,118.377%United Kingdom766.919%726.220%427.915%Australia256.76%236.67%152.66%Canada136.63%85.02%32.61%New Zealand122.63%81.32%1.5—%Other foreign54.41%43.61%22.41%Total brokerage and risk management4,051.1100%3,578.6100%2,755.3100%Corporate segment, substantially all United States1,341.31,047.9424.3Total revenues$5,392.4$4,626.5$3,179.6

See Notes 6, 16 and 17 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to
our foreign operations, including goodwill allocation, earnings before income taxes and identifiable assets, by segment, for 2015, 2014 and 2013.

International and Other Brokerage Related Operations

The majority of our international
brokerage operations are in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the U.K., targeting small to medium enterprise risks.

We operate primarily as a retail commercial property and casualty broker throughout more than 35 locations in Australia, 35 locations in Canada and
25 locations in New Zealand. In the U.K., we operate as a retail broker from approximately 90 locations. We also have an underwriting operation for clients to access the Lloyd’s of London and other international insurance markets, and a
program operation offering customized risk management products and services to U.K. public entities.

In Bermuda, we act principally as a
wholesaler for clients looking to access the Bermuda insurance markets and also provide services relating to the formation and management of offshore captive insurance companies.

We also have strategic brokerage alliances with a variety of international brokers in countries where we do not have a local office presence. Through a network of correspondent insurance brokers and
consultants in more than 150 countries, we are able to fully serve our clients’ coverage and service needs in virtually any geographic area.

Captive insurance companies






We have a wholly owned insurance company subsidiary based in the U.S. that cedes all of its insurance to
reinsurers or captives under facultative and quota share treaty reinsurance agreements. These reinsurance arrangements diversify our business and minimize our exposure to losses or hazards of an unusual nature. The ceding of insurance does not
discharge the original insurer of its primary liability to its policyholder. In the event that all or any of the reinsuring companies are unable to meet their obligations, we would be liable for such defaulted amounts. Therefore, we are subject to
credit risk with respect to the obligations of our reinsurers or captives. In order to minimize our exposure to losses from reinsurer credit risk and insolvencies, we have managed that exposure by obtaining full collateral for which we typically
require pledged assets, including cash and/or investment accounts or letters of credit, to fully offset the risk.

See Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” for information regarding risks attendant to these foreign operations.

International Risk Management Operations

Our international risk management operations are principally in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Services are similar to those
provided in the U.S. and are provided primarily on behalf of commercial and public entity clients.

Markets and Marketing

We manage our brokerage operations through a network of more than 570 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and in 30 other countries. We
manage our third-party claims adjusting operations through a network of more than 110 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Our customer base is highly diversified and includes commercial, industrial,
public entity, religious and not-for-profit entities. No material part of our business depends upon a single customer or on a few customers. The loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on our operations. In 2015, our
largest single customer accounted for approximately 1% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments and our ten largest customers represented 4% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management
segments in the aggregate. Our revenues are geographically diversified, with both domestic and international operations.

Each of our retail
and wholesale brokerage operations has a small market-share position and, as a result, we believe has substantial organic growth potential. In addition, each of our retail and wholesale brokerage operations has the ability to grow through the
acquisition of small- to medium-sized independent brokerages. See “Business Combinations” below.

While historically we have
generally grown our risk management segment organically, and we expect to continue to do so, from time to time we consider acquisitions for this segment.

We require our employees serving in sales or marketing capacities, plus all of our executive officers, to enter into agreements with us restricting disclosure of confidential information and solicitation
of our clients and prospects upon their termination of employment. The confidentiality and non-solicitation provisions of such agreements terminate in the event of a hostile change in control, as defined in the agreements.

Competition

Brokerage Segment

According toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 20, 2015 edition, we were the fourth largest insurance broker worldwide
based on total revenues. The insurance brokerage and service business is highly competitive and there are many insurance brokerage and service organizations and individuals throughout the world who actively compete with us in every area of our
business.

Our retail and wholesale brokerage operations compete with Aon plc, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Willis Towers
Watson Public Limited Company, each of which has greater worldwide revenues than us. In addition, various other competing firms, such as Jardine Lloyd Thomson Group plc, Wells Fargo Insurance Services, Inc., Brown & Brown Inc., Hub
International Ltd., Lockton Companies, Inc. and USI Holdings Corporation, operate nationally or are strong in a particular region or locality and may have, in that region or locality, an office with revenues as large as or larger than those of our
corresponding local office. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services we render and the overall costs to our clients. In addition, for
health/welfare products and benefit consultant services, we compete with larger firms such as Aon Hewitt, Mercer (a subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.), Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, mid-market firms such as
Lockton, USI Holdings, and Wells Fargo and the benefits consulting divisions of the national public accounting firms, as well as a vast number of local and regional brokerages and agencies.

Our wholesale brokerage and binding operations compete with large wholesalers such as CRC Insurance Services, Inc., RT Specialty, AmWINS Group, Inc., Swett & Crawford Group, Inc., as well as a
vast number of local and regional wholesalers.

We also compete with certain insurance companies that write insurance directly for their
customers. Government benefits relating to health, disability, and retirement are also alternatives to private insurance and indirectly compete with us.






Risk Management Segment

Our risk management operation currently ranks as the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims administrator based on revenues, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s
March 30, 2015 edition. While many global and regional claims administrators operate within this space, we compete directly with Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc., Broadspire Services, Inc. (a subsidiary of Crawford & Company),
ESIS (a subsidiary of ACE Limited) and CorVel. Several large insurance companies, such as Travelers and Zurich Insurance, also maintain their own claims administration units, which can be strong competitors. In addition, we compete with various
smaller third party claims administrators on a regional level. We believe that the primary factor determining our competitive position is reputation for outstanding service and the ability to resolve customers’ losses in the most cost-efficient
manner possible.

Regulation

We are required to be licensed or receive regulatory approval in nearly every state and foreign jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, most
jurisdictions require individuals who engage in brokerage, claim adjusting and certain other insurance service activities to be personally licensed. These licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most jurisdictions,
licensing laws and regulations generally grant broad discretion to supervisory authorities to adopt and amend regulations and to supervise regulated activities.

Business Combinations

We completed and integrated 383 acquisitions from January 1,
2002 through December 31, 2015, almost exclusively within our brokerage segment. The majority of these acquisitions have been smaller regional or local property/casualty retail or wholesale operations with a strong middle-market client focus or
significant expertise in one of our focus market areas. Over the last decade, we have also increased our acquisition activity in the retail employee benefits brokerage and wholesale brokerage areas. The total purchase price for individual
acquisitions have typically ranged from $1.0 million to $50.0 million, although in 2014 we completed three large acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price consideration in excess of $1,700.0 million.

Through acquisitions, we seek to expand our talent pool, enhance our geographic presence and service capabilities, and/or broaden and further diversify
our business mix. We also focus on identifying:



•A corporate culture that matches our sales-oriented culture;



•A profitable, growing business whose ability to compete would be enhanced by gaining access to our greater resources; and



•Clearly defined financial criteria.

See Note 3 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements for a summary of our 2015 acquisitions, the amount and form of the consideration paid and the dates of acquisition.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015,
we had approximately 21,500 employees. We continuously review benefits and other matters of interest to our employees and consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q,current reports on Form8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge
on our website atwww.ajg.comas soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such reports may also be read and copied at the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at (800) SEC-0330. The
Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements and other information.






