Item 1. Business.

Overview

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to
herein as we, our, us or Gallagher, are engaged in providing insurance brokerage, consulting, and third party claims settlement and administration services to both domestic and international entities. We believe that our major strength is our
ability to deliver comprehensively structured insurance, insurance and risk management solutions, superior claim outcomes and comprehensive consulting services to our clients.

Our brokerage segment operations provide brokerage and consulting services to companies and entities of all types, including commercial,not-for-profitand public entities, and, to a lesser extent, individuals, in the areas of insurance placement, risk of loss management, and management of employer
sponsored benefit programs. Our risk management segment operations provide contract claim settlement, claim administration, loss control services and risk management consulting for commercial,not-for-profit,captive and public entities, and various other organizations that choose to self-insure property/casualty coverages or choose to use a third-party claims management organization rather than
the claim services provided by an underwriting enterprise.

We do not assume underwriting risk on a net basis other than with respect to de
minimis amounts necessary to provide minimum or regulatory capital amounts to organize captives, pools, specialized underwriters or risk-retention groups. Rather, capital necessary for covering events of loss is provided by “underwriting
enterprises,” which we define as insurance companies, reinsurance companies and various other risk-taking entities, including intermediaries of underwriting enterprises, that we do not own or control.

Since our founding in 1927, we have grown from aone-personinsurance agency to the world’s fourth largest
insurance broker/risk manager based on revenues, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 2017 edition, and one of the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims administrators, according toBusiness
Insurancemagazine’s June 2017 edition. We have three reportable segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate, which contributed approximately 62%, 13% and 25%, respectively, to 2017 revenues. We generate approximately 69% of our
revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments domestically, with the remaining 31% derived internationally, primarily in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the United Kingdom (U.K.). Substantially all of
the revenues of the corporate segment are generated in the United States (U.S.).

Shares of our common stock are traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol AJG, and we had a market capitalization at December 31, 2017 of approximately $11.5 billion. Information in this report is as of December 31, 2017 unless otherwise noted. We were reincorporated as a Delaware
corporation in 1972. Our executive offices are located at 2850 Golf Road, Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008-4050, and our telephone number is(630) 773-3800.







Operating Segments

We report our results in three segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate. The major sources of our operating revenues are commissions, fees and supplemental and contingent revenues from our
brokerage operations, and fees, includingperformance-basedfees, from our risk management operations. The corporate segment generates revenues from our clean energy investments. Information with respect to
all sources of revenue, by segment, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, is as follows (in millions):



201720162015% of% of% ofAmountTotalAmountTotalAmountTotalBrokerageCommissions$2,627.242%$2,439.143%$2,338.744%Fees868.814%775.714%705.813%Supplemental revenues163.73%147.03%125.52%Contingent revenues111.82%107.22%93.72%Investment income and other59.01%58.91%60.31%3,830.562%3,527.963%3,324.062%Risk ManagementFees768.012%717.113%726.513%Investment income0.6—%1.0—%0.6—%768.613%718.113%727.113%CorporateClean energy and other investment income1,560.525%1,348.824%1,341.325%Total revenues$6,159.6100%$5,594.8100%$5,392.4100%

See Note 20 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information, including earnings
before income taxes and identifiable assets by segment for 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Our business, particularly our brokerage business, is subject
to seasonal fluctuations. Commissions, fees, supplemental revenues and contingent revenues, and our costs to obtain and fulfill the service obligations to our clients, can vary from quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of contract-effective
dates and the timing of receipt of information from underwriting enterprises. On the other hand, salaries and employee benefits, rent, depreciation and amortization expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. The timing of
acquisitions, recognition of books of business gains and losses and the variability in the recognition of tax credits generated by our clean energy investments also impact the trends in our quarterly operating results. See Note 19 to our 2017
consolidated financial statements for unaudited quarterly operating results for 2017 and 2016.

Brokerage Segment

The brokerage segment accounted for 62% of our revenues in 2017. We operate our brokerage segment operations through a network of more than 370 sales and
service offices located throughout the U.S. and another 240 sales and service offices in 32 countries, but most of which are in Australia, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the U.K. Most of these offices are fully staffed with sales and
service personnel. We also offer client service capabilities in more than 150 countries around the world through a network of correspondent brokers and consultants.

Our brokerage segment generates revenues by:



(i)Identifying, negotiating and placing all forms of insurance or reinsurance coverages, as well as providing risk-shifting, risk-sharing and risk-mitigation consulting
services, principally related to property/casualty, life, health, welfare and disability insurance. We also provide these services through, or in conjunction with, other unrelated agents and brokers, consultants and management advisors.



(ii)Acting as an agent or broker for multiple underwriting enterprises by providing services such as sales, marketing, selecting, negotiating, underwriting, servicing and
placing insurance coverage on their behalf.



(iii)Providing consulting services related to health and welfare benefits, voluntary benefits, executive benefits, compensation, retirement planning, institutional
investment and fiduciary, actuarial, compliance, private insurance exchange, human resource technology, communications, and benefit administration.







(iv)Providing management and administrative services to captives, pools, risk-retention groups, healthcare exchanges, small underwriting enterprises, such as accounting,
claims and loss processing assistance, feasibility studies, actuarial studies, data analytics and other administrative services.

The vast majority of our brokerage contracts and service understandings are for a period of one year or less.

Commissions and fees

The primary source
of brokerage segment revenues are commissions from underwriting enterprises, which are based on a percentage of premiums paid by our clients, or fees received from clients, which are based on an agreed level of service with our clients, usually in
lieu of commissions.

Commissions are fixed at the contract effective date and generally are based on a percentage of premium for insurance
coverage or employee head count for employer sponsored benefit plans. Commissions depend upon a large number of factors, including the type of risk being placed, the particular underwriting enterprise’s demand, the expected loss experience of
the particular risk of coverage, and historical benchmarks surrounding the level of effort necessary for us to place and service the insurance contract. Fees are rarely tied to the amount of premiums; instead, they are based on an expected level of
effort to provide our services.

Whether we are paid a commission or a fee, the vast majority of our services are associated with the
placement of an insurance (or insurance-like) contract. See Revenue Recognition in Note 1 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements. See Note 2 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements for information with respect to the potential
impacts that a new accounting standard, relating to revenue recognition, could have on our future financial position and operating results.

Supplemental revenues

Certain
underwriting enterprises may pay us additional revenues based on the volume of premium we place with them and for insights into our sales pipeline, our sales capabilities or our risk selection knowledge. These amounts are in excess of the commission
and fee revenues discussed above, and not all business we place with underwriting enterprises is eligible for supplemental revenues. See Revenue Recognition in Note 1 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements. See Note 2 to our 2017
consolidated financial statements for information with respect to the potential impacts that a new accounting standard relating to revenue recognition could have on our future financial position and operating results.

Contingent revenues

Certain
underwriting enterprises may pay us additional revenues for our sales capabilities, our risk selection knowledge, or our administrative efficiencies. These amounts are in excess of the commission revenues discussed above, and not all business we
place with participating underwriting enterprises is eligible for contingent revenues. Unlike supplemental revenues, discussed above, these revenues are variable, generally based on growth, the loss experience of the underlying insurance contracts,
and/or our efficiency in processing the business. See Revenue Recognition in Note 1 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements. See Note 2 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements for information with respect to the potential
impacts that a new accounting standard relating to revenue recognition could have on our future financial position and operating results.

Sub-brokeragecosts

Sub-brokeragecosts are excluded from our
gross revenues in our determination of our totalrevenues. Sub-brokeragecosts represent commissions paid tosub-brokersrelated to the placement of certain
business by our brokerage segment operations. We recognize this contra revenue in the same manner as the commission revenue to which it relates.

Retail Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our retail insurance brokerage operations accounted
for 83% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2017. Our retail brokerage operations place nearly all lines of commercial property/casualty and health and welfare insurance coverage. Significant lines of insurance coverage and consultant capabilities
are as follows:



AviationDisabilityGeneral LiabilityProducts LiabilityCasualtyEarthquakeHealth & WelfareProfessional LiabilityClaims AdvocacyErrors & OmissionsHealthcare AnalyticsPropertyCommercial AutoExchange SolutionsHuman ResourcesRetirementCompensationExecutive BenefitsInstitutional InvestmentSurety BondCyber LiabilityFiduciary ServicesLoss ControlVoluntary BenefitsDentalFine ArtsMarineWindDirectors & Officers LiabilityFireMedicalWorkers’ Compensation







Our retail brokerage operations are organized and operate within certain key niche/practice groups, which
account for approximately 73% of our retail brokerage revenues. These specialized teams target areas of business and/or industries in which we have developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant niche/practice groups we serve
are as follows:



AffinityEquity AdvisorsLaw FirmsReal Estate/HospitalityAutomotiveFinancial InstitutionsLife SciencesReligiousAviationFood/AgribusinessMarineRestaurantConstructionGlobal RisksNot-for-ProfitTechnologyEnergyHealthcarePersonalTrade Credit/Political RiskEntertainmentHigher EducationPrivate ClientTransportationEnvironmentalK12 EducationPublic Entity

Our specialized focus on these niche/practice groups allows for highly-focused marketing efforts and facilitates the
development of value-added products and services specific to those industries. We believe that our detailed understanding and broad client contacts within these niche/practice groups provide us with a competitive advantage.

We anticipate that our retail brokerage operations’ greatest revenue growth over the next several years will continue to come from:



•Mergers and acquisitions;



•Our niche/practice groups and middle-market accounts;



•Cross-selling other brokerage products to existing clients; and



•Developing and managing alternative market mechanisms such as captives,rent-a-captivesand deductibleplans/self-insurance.

Wholesale Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our wholesale insurance brokerage operations
accounted for 17% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2017. Our wholesale brokers assist our retail brokers and othernon-affiliatedbrokers in the placement of specialized andhard-to-placeinsurance. These brokers operate through more than 80 offices primarily located across the U.S., Bermuda and through our approved Lloyd’s of London
brokerage operation. In certain cases we act as a brokerage wholesaler and in other cases we act as a managing general agent or managing general underwriter distributing specialized insurance coverages for underwriting enterprises. Managing general
agents and managing general underwriters are agents authorized by an underwriting enterprise to manage all or a part of its business in a specific geographic territory. Activities they perform on behalf of the underwriting enterprise may include
marketing, underwriting (although we do not assume any underwriting risk), issuing policies, collecting premiums, appointing and supervising other agents, paying claims and negotiating reinsurance.

More than 75% of our wholesale brokerage revenues comes fromnon-affiliatedbrokerage clients. Based on revenues,
our domestic wholesale brokerage operation ranked as one of the largest domestic managing general agents/underwriting managers/wholesale brokers/Lloyds coverholders according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s September 2017 edition.

We anticipate growing our wholesale brokerage operations by increasing the number of broker-clients, developing new managing general agency
and underwriter programs, and through mergers and acquisitions.

Risk Management Segment

Our risk management segment accounted for 13% of our revenues in 2017. Approximately 64% of our risk management segment’s revenues are from
workers’ compensation-related claims, 32% are from general and commercial auto liability-related claims and 4% are from property-related claims.

Risk management services are primarily marketed directly to Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies, not for profit organizations and public entities on an independent basis from our
brokerage operations. We manage our third party claims adjusting operations through a network of more than 90 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Most of these offices are fully staffed with claims
adjusters and other service personnel. Our adjusters and service personnel act solely on behalf and under the instruction of our clients.

While this segment complements our brokerage and consulting offerings, more than 90% of our risk management segment’s revenues come from clients not
affiliated with our brokerage operations, such as underwriting enterprises and clients of other insurance brokers. Based on revenues, our risk management operation ranked as one of the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims
administrators according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s June 2017 edition.

Revenues for our risk management segment are
comprised of fees generally negotiated (i) on aper-claimbasis, (ii) on a cost-plus basis, or (iii) as performance-based fees. We also provide risk management consulting services that are
recognized as the services are delivered.







Per-claimfees

Where we operate under a contract where our fee is established on aper-claimbasis, our obligation is to process
claims for a term specified within the contract, which we provide over a period of time. We recognize these fee revenues ratably as the services are rendered, and record the income effects of subsequent fee adjustments when the adjustments become
known.

Cost-plus fees

Where
we provide services and generate revenues on a cost-plus basis, we recognize revenue over the contract period.

Performance-based fees

Certain clients pay us additional fee revenues for our efficiency in managing claims or on the basis of claim outcome
effectiveness. These amounts are in excess of the fee revenues discussed above. These revenues are variable, generally based on various performance metrics of the underlying contracts. We generally operate under multi-year contracts with fiscal
year measurement periods. We do not receive these fees, if earned, until the following year after verification of the performance metrics outlined in the contracts. Each period we base our estimates on acontract-by-contractbasis.

We expect that the risk management segment’s most significant
growth prospects through the next several years will come from:



•Program business and the outsourcing of portions of underwriting enterprise claims departments;



•Increased levels of business with Fortune 1000 companies;



•Larger middle-market companies and captives; and



•Mergers and acquisitions.

Corporate Segment

The corporate segment
accounted for 25% of our revenues in 2017. The corporate segment reports the financial information related to our debt, clean energy investments, external acquisition-related expenses and other corporate costs. The revenues reported by this segment
in 2017 resulted almost solely from our consolidated clean energy investments.

Clean-Energy Investments

We own 34 commercial clean coal production facilities that produce refined coal usingChem-ModLLC’s
proprietary technologies. These operations produce refined coal that we believe qualifies for tax credits under IRC Section 45. The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits will expire in December 2019 for 14 of our plants and in
December 2021 for the other 20 plants.Chem-ModLLC (described below) is a privately-held enterprise that has commercialized multi-pollutant reduction technologies to reduce mercury, sulfur dioxide and other
emissions at coal-fired power plants. We own 46.5% ofChem-ModLLC and are its controlling managing member. We also have a 12.0% noncontrolling interest in a dormant, privately-held, enterprise,C-QuestTechnology LLC, which owns technologies that reduce carbon dioxide emissions created by burning fossil fuels. It is unclear ifC-Questwill ever become commercially
viable.

International Operations

Our total revenues by geographic area for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017 were as follows (in millions):



201720162015% of% of% ofAmountTotalAmountTotalAmountTotalBrokerage and risk management segmentsUnited States$3,176.969%$2,944.669%$2,713.968%United Kingdom717.616%712.117%766.919%Australia270.96%245.56%256.76%Canada155.43%138.23%136.63%New Zealand150.53%125.93%122.63%Other foreign127.83%79.72%54.41%Total brokerage and risk management4,599.1100%4,246.0100%4,051.1100%Corporate segment, substantially all United States1,560.51,348.81,341.3Total revenues$6,159.6$5,594.8$5,392.4







Total revenues generated by our U.K. based operations increased in 2017 compared to 2016 due to organic
revenue growth and favorable foreign currency translation. Total revenues generated by our Australia, Canada, New Zealand and other foreign operations increased in 2017 compared to 2016 due to organic revenue growth and acquisition related activity.
See Notes 6, 17 and 20 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to our foreign operations, including goodwill allocation, earnings before income taxes and identifiable assets, by segment, for
2017, 2016 and 2015.

International and Other Brokerage Related Operations

We operate as a retail commercial property and casualty broker throughout more than 39 locations in Australia, 35 locations in Canada and 30 locations in New Zealand. In the U.K., we operate as a
retail broker from approximately 100 locations. We also have specialty, wholesale, underwriting and reinsurance intermediary operations in London for clients to access Lloyd’s of London and other international underwriting enterprises, and
a program operation offering customized risk management products and services to U.K. public entities.

In Bermuda, we act principally as a
wholesale broker for clients looking to access Bermuda-based underwriting enterprises and we also provide management and administrative services for captive insurance entities.

We also have strategic brokerage alliances with a variety of independent brokers in countries where we do not have a local office presence. Through this global network of correspondent insurance brokers
and consultants, we are able to fully serve our clients’ coverage and service needs in more than 150 countries around the world.

Captive underwriting enterprises

“rent-a-captive”

“rent-a-captive”

“rent-a-captive”

rent-a-captive

rent-a-captive

We also have a wholly owned underwriting enterprise subsidiary based in the U.S. that cedes all of its insurance risk of loss to reinsurers or captives under facultative and quota-share treaty reinsurance
agreements. While we believe these ceding reinsurance agreements displace all of our risk of loss, they do not discharge us of our primary liability to our clients. For example, in the event that all or any of the reinsuring companies or captives
are unable to meet their obligations, we would be liable for such defaulted amounts. Therefore, we are subject to credit risk with respect to the obligations of our reinsurers or captives. In order to minimize our exposure to losses from reinsurer
credit risk and insolvencies, we believe we have managed that exposure by obtaining full collateral for which we typically require pledged assets, including cash and/or investment accounts or letters of credit to fully offset the risk. See
Note 16 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to the insurance activity of our wholly owned underwriting enterprise subsidiary for 2017, 2016 and 2015.

International Risk Management Operations

Our international risk management operations are principally in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Services are similar to those provided in the
U.S. and are provided primarily on behalf of commercial and public entity clients.

See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for information
regarding risks attendant to these foreign operations.







Competition

Brokerage Segment

According toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 2017
edition, we were the world’s fourth largest insurance broker based on revenues. The insurance brokerage and consulting business is highly competitive and there are many organizations and individuals throughout the world who actively compete
with us in every area of our business.

mid-market

We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services we render, the personalized attention we provide, the
individual and corporate expertise providing the actual service to the client, and the overall cost to our clients.

Risk Management
Segment

Our risk management operation currently ranks as one of the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims
administrators based on revenues, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s June 2017 edition. While many global and regional claims administrators operate within this space, we compete directly with Sedgwick Claims Management Services,
Inc., Broadspire Services, Inc. (a subsidiary of Crawford & Company) and ESIS (a subsidiary of Chubb Limited). Several large underwriting enterprises, such as Travelers and Liberty Mutual, also maintain their own claims administration
units, which can be strong competitors. In addition, we compete with various smaller third party claims administrators on a regional level. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position are reputation for outstanding
service, cost-efficient service and ability to deliver better claim-outcomes.

Business Combinations

We completed and integrated 459 acquisitions from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2017, most of which were within our brokerage segment.
The majority of these acquisitions have been smaller regional or local brokerages, agencies, or employee benefit consulting operations with a middle or small client focus and/or significant expertise in one of our niche/practice groups. The total
purchase price for individual acquisitions has typically ranged from $1.0 million to $50.0 million, although in 2014 we completed three large international brokerage acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price consideration in excess of
$1.7 billion.

Through acquisitions, we seek to expand our talent pool, enhance our geographic presence and service capabilities, and/or
broaden and further diversify our business mix. We also focus on identifying:



•A corporate culture that matches our sales-oriented culture;



•A profitable, growing business whose ability to compete would be enhanced by gaining access to our greater resources; and



•Clearly defined financial criteria.

See Note 3 to our 2017 consolidated financial statements for a summary of our 2017 acquisitions, the amount and form of the consideration paid and the dates of acquisition.

Clients

Our client base is highly
diversified and includes commercial, industrial, public entity, religious andnot-for-profitentities. No material part of our business depends upon a single client or
on a few clients. The loss of any one client would not have a material adverse effect on our operations. In 2017, our largest single client represented approximately 1.0% and our ten largest clients together represented approximately 3.0% of our
combined brokerage and risk management segment revenues.







Employees

As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 26,800 employees.

We enter into agreements
with many of our brokerage salespersons and significant client-facing employees, plus all of our executive officers, which prohibit them from disclosing confidential information and/or soliciting our clients, prospects and employees upon their
termination of employment. The confidentiality andnon-solicitationprovisions of such agreements terminate in the event of a hostile change in control, as defined in the agreements. We pursue legal actions
for alleged breaches ofnon-competeor other restrictive covenants, theft of trade secrets, breaches of fiduciary duties, intellectual property infringement and related causes of action.

Available Information

Our annual
reports on Form10-K,quarterly reports on Form10-Q,current reports on Form8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website atwww.ajg.comas soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Such reports may also be read and copied at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be
obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at(800) SEC-0330.The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements and
other information.

Disclosure pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act

In our Quarterly Reports on Form10-Qfor the first, second and third quarters of 2017, we disclosed certain
activities required to be reported under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, and such disclosures are incorporated herein by reference.

In the fourth quarter of 2017, our U.K. domiciled subsidiary, Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Limited and our Norway domiciled subsidiary, Bergvall Marine AS,
acted as insurance brokers and advised clients in obtaining insurance coverage for activities related to Iran’s oil, gas and petroleum industries. These subsidiaries assisted clients in obtaining insurance, reinsurance and retrocession coverage
for a variety of activities in Iran, including insurance coverage for:



•The supply and transport of oil, crude oil, heavy fuel oil and gas to and from Iran;



•The docking and loading of oil shipments in Iran;



•The operation of vessels providing support services to offshore oil platforms that supply oil to Iran; and



•Other closely related activities pertaining to the supply and transportation of oil to and from Iran.

On January 16, 2016, the U.S. lifted the nuclear-related “secondary sanctions” imposed against Iran. In connection with this event, the
U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) issued General License H, which authorizes U.S.-owned or U.S.-controlled foreign entities to engage in certain transactions involving Iran that would otherwise be prohibited by
section 560.215 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations.

The activities described above were conducted in full compliance with
General License H. Our subsidiaries generated total gross revenue of approximately $7,289 (in actual dollars) and net profit of approximately $1,458 (in actual dollars) from these activities.

Our subsidiaries intend to continue acting as an insurance broker in connection with insurance coverages authorized by General License H.







