Item 1. Business.

Overview

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to
herein as we, our or us, are engaged in providing insurance brokerage and third-party claims settlement and administration services to entities in the United States and abroad. We believe that our major strength is our ability to deliver
comprehensively structured insurance and risk management services to our clients. Our brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries between insurers and their customers and we do not assume underwriting risks.

Since our founding in 1927, we have grown from a one-man agency to the world’s fourth largest insurance broker based on revenues, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 19, 2010 edition, and the world’s largest third-party property/casualty claims administrator, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s March 29, 2010 edition. We generate
approximately 87% of our revenues domestically, with the remaining 13% derived primarily from operations in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom (U.K.).

Shares of our common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AJG, and we had a market capitalization at December 31, 2010 of $3.2 billion. We were reincorporated as a
Delaware corporation in 1972. Our executive offices are located at Two Pierce Place, Itasca, Illinois 60143-3141, and our telephone number is (630) 773-3800.

We have three reportable operating segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate, which contributed approximately 72%, 25% and 3%, respectively, to 2010 revenues.

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

This annual report contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (which we refer to as the PSLRA) found at Section 27A of the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (which we refer to as the Exchange Act). We may make additional written or oral forward-looking statements from time to time in filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC), press releases, our website, earnings calls or otherwise. Statements contained in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the PSLRA and
the Exchange Act.

Forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, discussions concerning liquidity and capital resources,
acquisition strategy, revenues, expenses, earnings, cash flow, capital structure, the expected impact of the 2010 U.S. Healthcare Reform Legislation on our business, and financial losses, as well as market and industry conditions, premium rates,
financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies and matters relating to our operations and income taxes (including expectations regarding our clean-energy investments). In addition, when used in this report, the words
“anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “should,” “estimates,” “contemplates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans” and variations thereof and similar expressions, are
intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are subject to risks and
uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to the following:



•Our revenues, which consist primarily of commissions and fees based on insurance premiums, may vary significantly from period to period as a result of
the volatility and cyclical nature of insurance premiums;



•The recent recession and the current or any future economic downturn could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including by causing our
clients to purchase less insurance coverage, by leading to a continued reduction in the number of claims we process, or by causing insurance companies with which we do business to experience liquidity problems and withdraw from writing certain
coverages, or fail;



•Our ability to grow has been enhanced through acquisitions, which may or may not be available on acceptable terms in the future and which, if
consummated, may or may not be advantageous to us;



•Our growing international operations expose us to certain risks such as exchange rate fluctuations, geopolitical risk, and risks related to regulatory
requirements including those imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;



•We are subject to regulation worldwide including insurance industry and federal and state employment regulation, and such regulations could change at
any time;



•The 2010 U.S. Healthcare Reform Legislation may prove more harmful than helpful to our overall business results;



•We are subject to a number of contingencies and legal proceedings that would adversely affect our results if determined unfavorably to us;



•The portion of our revenues consisting of contingent and supplemental commissions is less predictable than standard commissions, and our results could
be adversely affected if we are unable to meet insurance companies’ thresholds for paying these types of commissions, or if insurance companies increase their estimate of loss reserves (over which we have no control);







•Our inability to recruit and retain key personnel, including a failure in succession planning for key members of management, could adversely affect our
operations;



•Rising employee benefits costs (including pension expense) could reduce our profitability;



•Significant uncertainties related to our Internal Revenue Code (which we refer to as the IRC) Section 45-related investments must be favorably
resolved in order for us to recoup these investments and generate earnings on them;



•Our IRC Section 45-related operations could subject us to environmental and product liability claims and environmental compliance costs;



•We may incur significant obligations under tax indemnity agreements relating to historically claimed tax credits under IRC Section 29;



•Improper disclosure of our clients’ confidential information and the personal data of their employees could result in legal liability or harm our
reputation;



•Our debt agreements contain restrictions and covenants that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business;



•Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our financial position and operating results;



•Our success could be compromised if we are unable to keep pace with new technological developments and implement technology solutions for our clients
and for internal efficiency purposes; and



•A disaster or significant disruption to business continuity could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

The foregoing and other such risks and uncertainties are described in more detail in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements contained in this report, which speak only as of the date set forth
on the signature page of this annual report. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after such date or to reflect the
occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

Operating Segments

We report our results in three operating segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate. The major sources of our operating revenues are commissions, fees and supplemental and contingent commissions
from brokerage operations and fees from risk management operations. Information with respect to all sources of revenue, by operating segment, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, is as follows (in millions):



201020092008Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalBrokerageCommissions$957.351%$912.953%$854.252%Fees274.915%282.116%250.215%Supplemental and contingent commissions97.65%65.04%45.73%Investment income and other10.81%16.21%37.72%1,340.672%1,276.274%1,187.872%Risk ManagementFees460.125%451.726%461.128%Investment income2.0—%1.5—%3.8—%462.125%453.226%464.928%CorporateInvestment income and other61.53%(0.1)—%(7.7)—%Total revenues$1,864.2100%$1,729.3100%$1,645.0100%

See Note 20 to our 2010 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information, including earnings from
continuing operations before income taxes and identifiable assets by operating segment for 2010, 2009 and 2008.







Our business, particularly our brokerage business, is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Commission and fee
revenues, and the related brokerage and marketing expenses can vary from quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of policy inception dates and the timing of receipt of information from insurance carriers. On the other the hand, salaries and
employee benefits, rent, depreciation and amortization expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. The timing of acquisitions and recognition of investment gains and losses also impact the trends in our quarterly operating
results. See Note 19 to our 2010 consolidated financial statements for unaudited quarterly operating results for 2010 and 2009.

Brokerage Segment

The brokerage segment
accounted for 72% of our revenue from continuing operations in 2010. Our brokerage segment is primarily comprised of retail and wholesale insurance brokerage operations. Our retail brokerage operations negotiate and place property/casualty,
employer-provided health and welfare insurance and retirement solutions principally for middle-market commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and not-for-profit entities. Many of our retail brokerage customers choose to place their
insurance with insurance underwriters, while others choose to use alternative vehicles such as self-insurance pools, risk retention groups or captive insurance companies. Our wholesale brokerage operations assist our brokers and other unaffiliated
brokers and agents in the placement of specialized, unique and hard-to-place insurance programs.

Our primary sources of compensation for our
retail brokerage services are commissions paid by insurance carriers, which are usually based upon both percentage of the premium paid by insureds, and brokerage and advisory fees paid directly by our clients. For wholesale brokerage services, we
generally receive a share of the commission paid to the retail broker by the insurer. Commission rates depend on a number of factors, including the type of insurance, the particular insurance company underwriting the policy and whether we act as a
retail or wholesale broker. Advisory fees paid to us by our clients depend on the extent and value of the services we provide. In addition, under certain circumstances, we receive supplemental and contingent commissions for both retail and wholesale
brokerage services. A supplemental commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier that is above the base commission paid. The insurance carrier determines the supplemental commission that is eligible to be paid annually based on historical
performance criteria in advance of the contractual period. A contingent commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier based on the overall profit and/or the overall volume of business placed with that insurance carrier during a particular
calendar year and is determined after the contractual period.

We operate our brokerage operations through a network of more than 250 sales
and service offices located throughout the United States and in 15 other countries. Most of these offices are fully staffed with sales and service personnel. In addition, we conduct business through a network of correspondent insurance brokers and
consultants in more than 110 countries around the world.

Retail Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our retail insurance brokerage operations accounted for 79% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2010. Our retail brokerage operations place nearly all
lines of commercial property/casualty and health and welfare insurance coverage. Significant lines of insurance coverage brokered are as follows:



AviationDisabilityLifePropertyCasualtyEarthquakeMarineRetirement SolutionsCommercial AutoErrors & OmissionsMedicalVoluntary BenefitsDentalFireProducts LiabilityWindDirectors & Officers LiabilityGeneral LiabilityProfessional LiabilityWorkers Compensation

Our retail brokerage operations are
organized in 180 geographical profit centers located in the United States, Australia, Canada and U.K. and operate within certain key niche/practice groups, which account for approximately 66% of our retail brokerage revenues. These specialized teams
target areas of business and/or industries in which we have developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant niche/practice groups that we serve are as follows:



AgribusinessGlobal RisksManufacturingReligious/Not-for-ProfitAviation & AerospaceHabitationalPersonalRestaurantCaptive ConsultingHealthcareProfessional GroupsScholasticConstructionHigher EducationPrivate EquityTechnology/TelecomEnergyHospitalityPublic EntityTransportationEntertainmentMarineReal Estate







Our specialized focus on these niche/practice groups allows for highly-focused marketing efforts and
facilitates the development of value-added products and services specific to those industries or business segments. We believe that our detailed understanding and broad client contacts within these niche/practice groups provide us with a competitive
advantage.

We anticipate that our retail brokerage operations’ greatest revenue growth over the next several years will continue to come
from:



•Our niche/practice groups and middle-market accounts;



•Cross-selling other brokerage products to existing customers;



•Developing and managing alternative market mechanisms such as captives, rent-a-captives and deductible plans/self-insurance; and



•Mergers and acquisitions.

Wholesale Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our wholesale insurance brokerage operations accounted for 21% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2010. Our wholesale brokers assist our retail brokers
and other non-affiliated brokers in the placement of specialized and hard-to-place insurance coverages through over 60 geographical profit centers located across the United States, Bermuda and through our approved Lloyd’s of London brokerage
operation in London. In certain cases, we act as a brokerage wholesaler and, in other cases, we act as a managing general agent or managing general underwriter distributing specialized insurance coverages for insurance carriers. Managing general
agents and managing general underwriters are agents authorized by an insurance company to manage all or a part of the insurer’s business in a specific geographic territory. Activities they perform on behalf of the insurer may include marketing,
underwriting (we do not assume risk, the insurer does), issuing policies, collecting premiums, appointing and supervising other agents, paying claims and negotiating reinsurance.

Over 75% of our wholesale brokerage revenues come from non-affiliated brokerage customers. Based on revenues, our domestic wholesale brokerage operation ranked as the largest domestic managing general
agent/underwriting manager according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s October 11, 2010 edition.

We anticipate growing our
wholesale brokerage operations by increasing the number of broker-clients, developing new managing general agency and underwriter programs, and through mergers and acquisitions.

Risk Management Segment

Our risk management segment accounted for 25% of our revenues from
continuing operations in 2010. Our risk management segment provides contract claim settlement and administration services for enterprises that choose to self-insure some or all of their property/casualty coverages and for insurance companies that
choose to outsource some or all of their property/casualty claims departments. Approximately 69% of our risk management segment’s revenues are from workers compensation related claims, 27% are from general and commercial auto liability related
claims and 4% are from property related claims. In addition, we generate revenues from integrated disability management (employee absence management) programs, information services, risk control consulting (loss control) services and appraisal
services, either individually or in combination with arising claims. Revenues for risk management services are comprised of fees that are generally negotiated in advance on a per-claim or per-service basis, depending upon the type and estimated
volume of the services to be performed.

Risk management services are primarily marketed directly to Fortune 1000 companies, larger
middle-market companies, not-for-profit organizations and public entities on an unbundled basis independent of our brokerage operations. We manage our third-party claims adjusting operations through a network of approximately 110 offices located
throughout the United States, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Most of these offices are fully staffed with our claims adjusters and other service personnel. Our adjusters and service personnel act solely on behalf and under the
instruction of our clients and customers.

While this segment complements our insurance brokerage offerings, over 80% of our risk management
segment’s revenues come from non-affiliated brokerage customers, such as insurance companies and clients of other insurance brokers. Based on revenues, our risk management operation ranked as the world’s largest third party
property/casualty claims administrator according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s March 29, 2010 edition.

We expect that the
risk management segment’s most significant growth prospects through the next several years will come from Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies, captives, program business and the outsourcing of insurance company claims
departments. In addition, the risk management segment may grow in the future through mergers and acquisitions.







Corporate Segment

The corporate segment includes the financial information related to our debt, investments in clean-energy ventures, external acquisition-related costs and other corporate costs. We have been winding down
our legacy investments since 2003. At December 31, 2010, significant investments managed by this segment include:

Clean-Energy

We have a 13.4% ownership interest in a waste-to-energy company (Enerdyne Ltd, LLC) which owns a biomass emissions pipeline that removes
and sells gas emissions from landfills, a 42.0% interest in a privately-held enterprise (Chem-Mod LLC) that has commercialized multi-pollutant reduction technologies that remove mercury, sulfur dioxide and other toxic emissions created bycoal-fired power plants and an 8.0% interest in a privately-held start-up enterprise (C-Quest Technology LLC), which owns technologies that reduce carbon dioxide emissions created by burning fossil fuels.

Tax-Advantaged Investments

Prior to
January 1, 2008, we owned certain partnerships that were formed to develop energy that qualified for tax credits under the former IRC Section 29. These consisted of waste-to-energy partnerships and synthetic coal operations. These
investments helped to substantially reduce our effective income tax rate from 2002 through 2007. The law that permitted us to claim IRC Section 29 tax credits expired on December 31, 2007. In 2009, we built eight commercial facilities to
produce clean-burning coal using Chem-Mod’s technologies. We believe these operations will produce energy that will qualify for tax credits under IRC Section 45. The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits substantially
expires on December 31, 2019 for our related investments.

International Operations

Our total revenues by geographic area for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010 were as follows (in millions):



201020092008Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalUnited States$1,613.587%$1,532.989%$1,435.087%Foreign, principally Australia, Bermuda, Canada and the U.K.250.713%196.411%210.013%Total revenues$1,864.2100%$1,729.3100%$1,645.0100%

See Notes 7, 18 and 20 to our 2010 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to our
foreign operations, including goodwill allocation, earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and identifiable assets, by operating segment, for 2010, 2009 and 2008.

Brokerage Operations in Australia, Bermuda, Canada and the U.K.

The majority of our
international brokerage operations are in Australia, Bermuda, Canada and the U.K.

We operate in Australia and Canada primarily as a retail
commercial property and casualty broker. In the U.K., we have a significant wholesale brokerage operation for U.S. and international clients looking to access the Lloyd’s of London and other international insurance markets, a program operation
offering customized risk management products and services to U.K. public entities and a retail commercial property casualty brokerage. In Bermuda, we act principally as a wholesaler for clients looking to access the Bermuda insurance markets and
also provide services relating to the formation and management of offshore captive insurance companies.

We also have ownership interests in
two Bermuda-based insurance companies that operate segregated account “rent-a-captive” facilities that enable clients to receive the benefits of owning a captive insurance company without incurring certain disadvantages of ownership.
Captive insurance companies are created for clients to insure their risks and capture underwriting profit and investment income, which is then available for use by the insureds generally for reducing future costs of their insurance programs.

We also have strategic brokerage alliances with a variety of international brokers in countries where we do not have a local office presence.
Through a network of correspondent insurance brokers and consultants in more than 110 countries, we are able to fully serve our clients’ coverage and service needs in virtually any geographic area.

Risk Management Operations in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K.

Our international risk management operations are principally in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Services are similar to those provided in the United States and are provided primarily on behalf
of commercial and public entity clients.

Markets and Marketing

We operate our brokerage operations through a network of more than 250 sales and service offices located throughout the United States and in 15 other countries. We manage our third-party claims adjusting
operations through a network of 110 offices located throughout the United States, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Our customer base is highly diversified and includes commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and
not-for-profit entities. No material part of our business depends upon a single







customer or on a few customers. The loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on our operations. In 2010, our largest single customer accounted for approximately 1% of
total revenues and our ten largest customers represented 6% of total revenues in the aggregate. Our revenues are geographically diversified, with both domestic and international operations.

Each of our retail and wholesale brokerage operations has a small market-share position and, as a result, we believe has substantial organic growth potential. In addition, each of our retail and wholesale
brokerage operations have the ability to grow through the acquisition of small- to medium-sized independent brokerages. See “Business Combinations” below.

While historically we have generally grown our risk management segment organically and we expect to continue to do so, from time to time we consider acquisitions for this segment.

We require our employees serving in sales or marketing capacities, including all of our executive officers, to enter into agreements with us restricting
disclosure of confidential information and solicitation of our clients and prospects upon their termination of employment. The confidentiality and non-solicitation provisions of such agreements terminate in the event of a hostile change in control,
as defined in the agreements.

Competition

Brokerage Segment

According toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 19,
2010 edition, we were the fourth largest insurance broker worldwide based on total revenues. The insurance brokerage and service business is highly competitive and there are many insurance brokerage and service organizations and individuals
throughout the world who actively compete with us in every area of our business.

Our retail and wholesale brokerage operations compete with
Aon Corporation, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Willis Group Holdings, Ltd., each of which has greater worldwide revenues than us. In addition, various other competing firms, such as Wells Fargo Insurance Services, Inc.,
Brown & Brown Inc., Hub International Ltd., Lockton Companies, Inc. and USI Holdings Corporation, operate nationally or are strong in a particular region or locality and may have, in that region or locality, an office with revenues as large
as or larger than those of our corresponding local office. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services we render and the overall costs to our
clients. In addition, for health/welfare products and benefit consultant services, we compete with larger firms such as Aon Hewitt, Mercer, a subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., Towers Watson & Co. and the benefits
consulting divisions of the national public accounting firms, and we also compete with a vast number of local and regional brokerages and agencies.

Our wholesale brokerage operations compete with large wholesalers such as Crump Group, Inc., CRC Insurance Services, Inc., RT Specialty, AmWINS Group, Inc., Swett & Crawford Group, Inc., as well
as a vast number of local and regional wholesalers.

We also compete with certain insurance companies that write insurance directly for their
customers. Government benefits relating to health, disability, and retirement are also alternatives to private insurance and indirectly compete with us.

Risk Management Segment

Our risk management operation currently ranks as the world’s
largest property/casualty third party administrator based on revenues according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s March 29, 2010 edition. While many global and regional claims administrators operate within this space, we compete
directly with Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc., Broadspire Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Crawford & Company, Xchanging and ESIS, a subsidiary of ACE Limited. Several large insurance companies, such as AIG Insurance and Zurich
Insurance, also maintain their own claims administration units, which can be strong competitors, particularly during the softening insurance cycle. In addition, we compete with various smaller third party administrators on a regional level. We
believe that our competitive position is due to our strong reputation for outstanding service quality and ability to resolve customers’ losses in the most cost-efficient manner possible.

Regulation

We are required to be licensed or receive regulatory approval in nearly every
state and foreign jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, most jurisdictions require that individuals who engage in brokerage, claim adjusting and certain other insurance service activities be personally licensed. These licensing laws and
regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most jurisdictions, licensing laws and regulations generally grant broad discretion to supervisory authorities to adopt and amend regulations and to supervise regulated activities.

Business Combinations

We have completed
and integrated 254 acquisitions from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 2010, almost exclusively within our brokerage segment. The majority of these acquisitions have been smaller regional or local property/casualty retail or wholesale
operations with a strong middle-market client focus or significant expertise in one of our focus market areas. Over the last decade, we have also increased our acquisition activity in the retail employee benefits brokerage and wholesale brokerage
areas. Acquisition prices typically fall within the $1 million to $50 million purchase price range.







Through acquisitions, we seek to expand our talent pool, enhance our geographic presence and service
capabilities, and/or broaden and further diversify our business mix. We also focus on identifying:



•A corporate culture that matches our sales-oriented culture;



•A profitable, growing business whose ability to compete would be enhanced by gaining access to our greater resources; and



•Clearly defined financial criteria.

See Note 4 to our 2010 consolidated financial statements for a summary of our 2010 acquisitions, the amount and nature of the consideration paid and the dates of acquisition.

Effective on January 1, 2011, we acquired substantially all of the net assets of The Gleason Agency, Inc. and Gleason Financial Ltd., operations engaged
in the retail insurance brokerage business, in exchange for approximately $4.3 million in cash, 342,000 shares of our common stock and a contingent earnout obligation of $6.0 million, of which any portion that is earned will be paid with cash or
shares of our common stock at our option.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 10,700 employees. We continuously review benefits and other matters of interest to our employees and consider our relations with our employees to be
satisfactory.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange
Act, are available free of charge on our website atwww.ajg.comas soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such reports may be read and copied at the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at
(800) SEC-0330. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements and other information.

