Item 1. Business.

Overview

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as Gallagher unless the context
otherwise requires) are engaged in providing insurance brokerage and third-party claims settlement and administration services to entities in the U.S. and abroad. Gallagher believes that its major strength is its ability to deliver comprehensively
structured insurance and risk management services to its clients. Gallagher’s brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries between insurers and their customers and Gallagher does not assume underwriting risks.

Since its founding in 1927, Gallagher has grown from a one-man agency to the world’s fifth largest insurance broker based on revenues (according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 20, 2009 edition) and the world’s largest third-party property/casualty (P/C) claims administrator (according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s March 16, 2009 edition).
Gallagher generates approximately 89% of its revenues domestically, with the remaining 11% derived primarily from operations in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom (U.K.).

Shares of Gallagher’s common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AJG, and Gallagher had a market capitalization at
December 31, 2009 of $2.3 billion. Gallagher was reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1972. Gallagher’s executive offices are located at Two Pierce Place, Itasca, Illinois 60143-3141, and its telephone number is (630) 773-3800.

Gallagher operates three business segments: Brokerage, Risk Management and Financial Services and Corporate, which contributed approximately
74%, 26% and less than 1%, respectively, to 2009 revenues.

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

This annual report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of that term in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act)
found at Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Additional written or oral forward-looking statements may be made by Gallagher from
time-to-time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), press releases, its website or otherwise. Statements contained in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of the Act and the Exchange Act.

Forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, discussions concerning revenues,
expenses, earnings, cash flow, capital structure and financial losses, as well as market and industry conditions, premium rates, financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies and matters relating to Gallagher’s
operations and income taxes. In addition, when used in this report, the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “should,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans” and variations
thereof and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.







agreements may be subject to increase as a result of changes in income tax laws, unfavorable interpretations of past, current or future tax laws or developments resulting in the loss or
unavailability of historically claimed tax credits under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC); there are significant uncertainties related to Gallagher’s IRC Section 45-related investments, which must be favorably resolved in
order for Gallagher to recoup these investments and generate earnings on them; and operations at the IRC Section 45 facilities could subject Gallagher to environmental and product liability claims and environmental compliance costs. These and
other risks and uncertainties are described in more detail in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

Readers are cautioned not to place
undue reliance on any forward-looking statements contained in this report, which speak only as of the date set forth on the signature page hereto. Gallagher undertakes no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these
forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after such date or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

Operating Segments

Gallagher has identified three operating segments: Brokerage, Risk
Management and Financial Services and Corporate. The two major sources of operating revenues for Gallagher are commissions and fees from Brokerage operations and fees from Risk Management operations. Information with respect to all sources of
revenue, by operating segment, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, is as follows (in millions):



200920082007Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalBrokerageCommissions$1,003.758%$922.556%$867.354%Fees256.315%227.614%216.813%Investment income and other16.21%37.72%30.12%1,276.274%1,187.872%1,114.269%Risk ManagementFees451.726%461.128%439.427%Investment income and other1.5—%3.8—%4.1—%453.226%464.928%443.527%Financial Services and CorporateInvestment income and other(0.1)—%(7.7)—%65.64%Total revenues$1,729.3100%$1,645.0100%$1,623.3100%

See Note 20 to Gallagher’s 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements for additional financial information, including
earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and identifiable assets by operating segment for 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Gallagher’s business, particularly its brokerage business, is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Commission and fee revenues and the related brokerage and marketing expenses can vary from quarter-to-quarter as a result of the timing of
policy inception dates and timing of receipt of information from insurance carriers. Alternatively, salaries and employee benefits, rent, depreciation and amortization expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. In addition, the
timing of acquisitions and recognition of investment gains and losses also impact the trends in Gallagher’s quarterly operating results. See Note 19 to Gallagher’s 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements for unaudited quarterly
operating results for 2009 and 2008.

Brokerage Segment

The Brokerage Segment accounted for 74% of Gallagher’s revenue from continuing operations in 2009. Gallagher’s Brokerage Segment is primarily comprised of Retail and Wholesale Brokerage
operations. Gallagher’s Retail Brokerage operations negotiate and place P/C, employer-provided health and welfare insurance and retirement solutions principally for middle-market commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and
not-for-profit entities. Many of Gallagher’s Retail Brokerage customers choose to place their insurance with insurance underwriters, while others choose to use alternative vehicles such as self-insurance pools, risk retention groups or captive
insurance companies. In addition, Gallagher’s Wholesale Brokerage operations assist Gallagher brokers and other unaffiliated brokers and agents in the placement of specialized, unique and hard to place insurance programs.







Gallagher operates its Brokerage operations through a network of more than 200 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and in fourteen countries abroad. Most of these offices are fully staffed with sales and service personnel.
In addition, Gallagher does business through a network of correspondent insurance brokers and consultants in more than 100 countries around the world.

Retail Insurance Brokerage Operations

Gallagher’s Retail Insurance Brokerage operations accounted for 81% of
Gallagher’s Brokerage Segment revenues in 2009. Gallagher’s Brokerage operations place nearly all lines of commercial P/C and health and welfare insurance coverage. Significant lines of insurance coverage brokered are as follows:



AviationDisabilityLifePropertyCasualtyEarthquakeMarineRetirement SolutionsCommercial AutoErrors & OmissionsMedicalVoluntary BenefitsDentalFireProducts LiabilityWindDirectors & Officers LiabilityGeneral LiabilityProfessional LiabilityWorkers Compensation

Gallagher’s Retail Brokerage operations are organized in 180 geographical profit centers located
in the U.S., Australia and Canada and operate within certain key Niche/Practice Groups, which account for approximately 65% of its Retail Brokerage revenues. These specialized teams target areas of business and/or industries in which Gallagher has
developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant Niche/Practice Groups that Gallagher serves are as follows:



AgribusinessGlobal RisksMarineReal EstateAviation & AerospaceHabitationalManufacturingReligious/Not-for-ProfitCaptive ConsultingHealthcarePersonalRestaurantConstructionHigher EducationProfessional GroupsScholasticEnergyHospitalityPrivate EquityTechnology/TelecomEntertainmentInstitutional ServicesPublic EntityTransportation

Gallagher’s specialized focus on these Niche/Practice Groups allows for highly-focused marketing
efforts and facilitates the development of value-added products and services specific to those industries or business segments. Gallagher believes that the detailed understanding and broad client contacts developed within these Niche/Practice Groups
provide Gallagher with a competitive advantage.

Gallagher anticipates that its greatest revenue growth over the next several years for its
Retail Brokerage operations will continue to come from: its Niche/Practice Groups and middle-market accounts, cross-selling other brokerage products to existing customers, developing and managing alternative market mechanisms such as captives,
rent-a-captives, deductible plans/self-insurance and mergers and acquisitions.

Wholesale Insurance Brokerage Operations

Gallagher’s Wholesale Insurance Brokerage operations accounted for 19% of Gallagher’s Brokerage Segment revenues in 2009. Gallagher’s
wholesale brokers assist Gallagher’s retail brokers and other non-Gallagher brokers in the placement of specialized and hard to place insurance coverages through over sixty geographical profit centers across the U.S., Bermuda and through
Gallagher’s approved Lloyd’s of London brokerage in London. In certain cases, Gallagher acts as a brokerage wholesaler and, in other cases, Gallagher acts as a managing general agent (MGA) or managing general underwriter (MGU) distributing
specialized







insurance coverages for insurance carriers. MGAs and MGUs are agents authorized by an insurance company to manage all or a part of the insurer’s business in a specific geographic territory.
Activities performed on behalf of the insurer may include marketing, underwriting, issuing policies, collecting premiums, appointing and supervising other agents, paying claims and negotiating reinsurance.

Over 80% of Gallagher’s Wholesale Brokerage revenues come from non-Gallagher brokerage customers. Based on revenues, Gallagher’s domestic
Wholesale Brokerage operation currently ranks as the largest domestic MGA/underwriting manager (according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s October 5, 2009 edition).

Gallagher anticipates growing its Wholesale Brokerage operations by increasing the number of broker-clients, developing new managing general agency and underwriter programs and through mergers and
acquisitions.

Risk Management Segment

The Risk Management Segment accounted for 26% of Gallagher’s revenues from continuing operations in 2009. The Risk Management Segment provides contract claim settlement and administration services
for enterprises that choose to self-insure some or all of their P/C coverages and for insurance companies that choose to outsource some or all of their P/C claims departments. Approximately 69% of the Risk Management Segment’s revenues are from
workers compensation related claims, 27% are from general and commercial auto liability related claims and 4% are from property related claims. In addition, Gallagher generates revenues from integrated disability management programs, information
services, risk control consulting (loss control) services and appraisal services, either individually or in combination with arising claims. This Segment’s revenues for risk management services are in the form of fees that are generally
negotiated in advance on a per-claim or per-service basis, depending upon the type and estimated volume of the services to be performed.

Risk
management services are primarily marketed directly to Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies, not-for-profit organizations and public entities on an unbundled basis independent of Gallagher’s Brokerage operations. Gallagher
manages its third-party claims adjusting operations through a network of 110 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Most of these offices are fully staffed with Gallagher claims adjusters and other service
personnel. Revenues are usually generated on a negotiated per-claim or per-service basis. Gallagher’s adjusters and service personnel act solely on behalf and under the instruction of their clients and customers.

While this Segment complements Gallagher’s insurance brokerage offerings, over 84% of the Risk Management Segment’s revenues come from
non-Gallagher brokerage customers, such as insurance companies and clients of other insurance brokers. Based on revenues, Gallagher’s Risk Management operation currently ranks as the world’s largest third party P/C claims administrator
(according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s March 16, 2009 edition).

The Risk Management Segment expects its most
significant growth prospects through the next several years will come from Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies, captives, program business and the outsourcing of insurance company claims departments.

Financial Services and Corporate Segment

The Financial Services and Corporate Segment manages Gallagher’s interests primarily in alternative energy (clean-energy/tax-advantaged) investments and venture capital funds. Operations are in Itasca, Illinois and Gallagher has been
winding down its legacy financial services activities since 2003. At December 31, 2009, significant investments managed by this Segment include:

Clean-Energy

Gallagher has a 13.4% ownership interest in a Biomass company which owns a Biogas pipeline that removes and sells
Biogas from landfills, a 42.0% interest in a privately-held enterprise (Chem-Mod) that has commercialized multi-pollutant reduction technologies that remove mercury, sulfur dioxide and other toxic emissions created by coal-fired power plants and a
5.0% interest in a privately-held start-up enterprise, which owns technologies that reduce carbon dioxide emissions created by burning fossil fuels. Utilization of the Chem-Mod technologies may qualify for tax credits under IRC Section 45,
which substantially expires on December 31, 2019.







Tax-Advantaged Investments

Prior to January 1, 2008, Gallagher owned certain partnerships that were formed to develop energy that qualified for tax credits under what was formerly called IRC Section 29. These consisted of
waste-to-energy partnerships and synthetic coal facilities. These investments helped to substantially reduce Gallagher’s effective income tax rate from 2002 through 2007. The law that permitted Gallagher to claim IRC Section 29 tax credits
expired on December 31, 2007.

In 2009, Gallagher built eight commercial facilities that will produce clean-burning coal using
Chem-Mod’s technologies. Gallagher believes these facilities will produce energy that will qualify for IRC Section 45 tax credits.

Real Estate and Venture Capital

Gallagher has ownership interests in four venture capital funds and an investment management
company, none of which is over 20%. The funds primarily invest in turn-around companies and the investment management firm primarily invests in hedge fund managers.

International Operations

Gallagher’s total revenues by geographic area for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 were as follows (in millions):



200920082007Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalUnited States$1,532.989%$1,435.087%$1,425.988%Foreign, principally Australia, Bermuda, Canada and the U.K.196.411%210.013%197.412%Total revenues$1,729.3100%$1,645.0100%$1,623.3100%

See Notes 7, 18 and 20 to Gallagher’s 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements for additional financial information
related to Gallagher’s foreign operations, including goodwill allocation, earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and identifiable assets, by operating segment, for 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Gallagher’s foreign operations are subject to a variety of legal, economic and market risks, including risks relating to staffing, political and
economic instability, the requirement of complying with foreign regulations and U.S. regulations applicable to Gallagher’s foreign operations (e.g., the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), changes in trade policies and tax rates, and
restrictions on the transfer of funds. Gallagher’s foreign operations are also subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Please see the risk factor regarding Gallagher’s non-U.S. operations under Item 1A, “Risk
Factors,” for more information regarding these risks.

Brokerage Operations in Australia, Bermuda, Canada and the U.K.

The majority of Gallagher’s international presence in its Brokerage operations is in Australia, Bermuda, Canada and the U.K.

Gallagher operates in Australia and Canada primarily as a retail commercial property and casualty broker. In the U.K., Gallagher has a significant Wholesale
Brokerage operation for U.S. and international clients looking to access the Lloyd’s of London and other international insurance markets, a program operation offering customized risk management products and services to U.K. public entities and
a small retail commercial property casualty brokerage. In Bermuda, Gallagher acts principally as a wholesaler for clients looking to access the Bermuda insurance markets and also provides services relating to the formation and management of offshore
captive insurance companies.

Gallagher also has ownership interests in two Bermuda-based insurance companies that operate segregated account
“rent-a-captive” facilities that enable clients to receive the benefits of owning a captive insurance company without certain disadvantages of ownership. Captive insurance companies are created for clients to insure their risks and capture
underwriting profit and investment income, which is then available for use by the insureds generally for reducing future costs of their insurance programs.

Gallagher also has strategic brokerage alliances with a variety of international brokers in countries where it does not have a physical presence. Through a network of correspondent insurance brokers and
consultants in more than 100 countries globally, Gallagher is able to fully serve its clients’ coverage and service needs in virtually any geographic area where their operations are located.







Risk Management Operations in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K.

Gallagher’s international Risk Management operations are principally in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Services are similar to those
provided in the U.S. and are provided primarily on behalf of commercial and public entity clients.

Markets and Marketing

Gallagher operates its Brokerage operations through a network of more than 200 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and in fourteen
countries abroad. Gallagher manages its third-party claims adjusting operations through a network of 110 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Gallagher’s customer base is highly diversified and
includes commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and not-for-profit entities. No material part of Gallagher’s business is dependent upon a single customer or on a few customers. The loss of any one customer would not have a material
adverse effect on Gallagher. In 2009, Gallagher’s largest single customer accounted for approximately 1% of total revenues and the ten largest customers represented 7% of total revenues in the aggregate. Gallagher’s revenues are
geographically diversified, with both domestic and international operations.

Each of Gallagher’s Retail and Wholesale Brokerage
operations have small market-share positions and, therefore, have substantial organic growth potential. In addition, each of Gallagher’s Retail and Wholesale Brokerage operations have the ability to grow through the acquisition of small to
medium sized independent brokerages. See Business Combinations below.

Gallagher has historically grown its Risk Management operation
organically and expects to continue to do so.

Gallagher requires its employees serving in a sales or marketing capacity, including all
executive officers of Gallagher, to enter into agreements with Gallagher restricting disclosure of confidential information and solicitation of clients and prospects of Gallagher upon their termination of employment. The confidentiality and
non-solicitation provisions of such agreements terminate in the event of a hostile change in control of Gallagher, as defined therein.

Competition

Brokerage Segment

Gallagher is the fifth largest insurance broker worldwide based on total revenues (according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 20, 2009 edition). The insurance brokerage and service
business is highly competitive and there are many insurance brokerage and service organizations and individuals throughout the world who actively compete with Gallagher in every area of its business.

Gallagher’s Retail and Wholesale Brokerage operations compete with Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., Aon Corporation, Willis Group Holdings,
Ltd. and Wells Fargo Insurance Services, Inc., each of which has greater revenues than Gallagher. In addition, there are various other competing firms, such as Brown & Brown Inc., Hub International Ltd., Lockton Companies, Inc. and USI
Holdings Corporation that operate nationally or that are strong in a particular region or locality and may have, in that region or locality, an office that is as large as or larger than, in terms of revenues, the corresponding local office of
Gallagher. Gallagher believes that the primary factors determining its competitive position with other organizations in its industry are the quality of the services rendered and the overall costs to its clients. In addition, for health and welfare
products, Gallagher competes with larger firms such as Hewitt Associates, Inc., Towers Watson & Co. and the benefits consulting divisions of the national public accounting firms and also competes with a vast number of local and regional
brokerages and agencies.

Gallagher’s Wholesale Brokerage operations compete with large wholesalers such as Crump Group, Inc., CRC
Insurance Services, Inc., AmWINS Group, Inc., Swett & Crawford Group, Inc., as well as a vast number of local and regional wholesalers.

Gallagher also competes with certain insurance companies that write insurance directly for their customers. Government benefits relating to health, disability, and retirement are also alternatives to private insurance and indirectly compete
with Gallagher.

Risk Management Segment

Gallagher’s Risk Management operation currently ranks as the world’s largest P/C third party administrator based on revenues (according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s
March 16, 2009 edition). While many global and regional claims administrators operate within this space, Gallagher competes directly with Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc., Broadspire Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Crawford &
Company, UMR, Inc., a subsidiary of United Health Group, Inc., Cambridge Solutions Ltd., ESIS, a subsidiary of ACE Limited, and Specialty Risk Services, a subsidiary of Hartford Financial Services, Inc. There are also several large insurance
companies, such as AIG Insurance and Zurich Insurance, that maintain their own claims administration units, which can be strong competitors, particularly during the softening insurance cycle. In addition, Gallagher competes with various smaller
third party administrators on a regional level. Gallagher believes that its competitive position is due to its strong reputation for outstanding service quality and ability to resolve customers’ losses in the most cost efficient manner
possible.







Regulation

In nearly every state and foreign jurisdiction in which Gallagher does business, Gallagher is required to be licensed or receive regulatory approval in order to conduct business. In addition, most
jurisdictions require that individuals who engage in brokerage, claim adjusting and certain other insurance service activities be personally licensed. These licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most
jurisdictions, the applicable licensing laws and regulations generally grant broad discretion to supervisory authorities in adopting and amending regulations and in supervising regulated activities. In addition, for the past several years, the
insurance industry has been under scrutiny by State Attorneys General and departments of insurance and has been subject to legal actions by private litigants with respect to contingent compensation arrangements and various historical business
practices.

Business Combinations

Gallagher has completed and integrated 235 acquisitions in the period from January 1, 1985 through December 31, 2009, almost exclusively within its Brokerage Segment. The majority of the acquisitions over this twenty-five year
period have been smaller regional or local P/C retail or wholesale operations possessing a strong middle-market client focus or significant expertise in one of Gallagher’s focus market areas. Over the last decade, Gallagher has also increased
its acquisition activity in the Retail Employee Benefits Brokerage and Wholesale Brokerage areas. Acquisition prices typically fall within the $1 million to $50 million range.

Through acquisitions, Gallagher seeks to expand its talent pool, enhance its geographic presence and service capabilities, and/or broaden and further diversify its business mix. Gallagher also focuses on
identifying:



•A corporate culture that matches its sales-oriented culture;



•A profitable, growing business whose ability to compete would be enhanced by gaining access to Gallagher’s greater resources; and



•Clearly defined financial criteria.

In 2009, Gallagher acquired all of the policy renewal rights from Liberty Mutual’s middle-market commercial P/C brokers located in their Midwest and Southeast regions. As part of the agreement,
Gallagher hired approximately seventy-five Liberty Mutual producers in these regions. In addition, Gallagher acquired substantially all of the policy renewal rights and hired the national producer group from Wausau Signature Agency, Liberty
Mutual’s commercial P/C and employee benefits insurance agency headquartered in Wausau, Wisconsin. Gallagher also acquired substantially all the net assets or common stock of fourteen insurance brokerage firms in exchange for its common stock
and/or cash. See Note 4 to the Gallagher’s 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the 2009 acquisitions, the amount and nature of the consideration paid and the dates of acquisition.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009,
Gallagher employed approximately 9,900 employees. Gallagher continuously reviews benefits and other matters of interest to its employees and considers its relations with its employees to be satisfactory.

Available Information

Gallagher makes
available free of charge on its website at www.ajg.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission.







