Item 1. Business.

Overview

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to
herein as we, our, us or Gallagher, are engaged in providing insurance brokerage and consulting services and third party claims settlement and administration services to both domestic and international entities. We believe that our major strength is
our ability to deliver comprehensively structured insurance, risk management and consulting services to our clients. Our brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries between insurers and their customers.

Since our founding in 1927, we have grown from aone-personagency to the world’s fourth largest insurance
broker based on revenues, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 18, 2016 edition, and one of the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims administrators, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s March 24, 2016 edition. We have three reportable segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate, which contributed approximately 63%, 13% and 24%, respectively, to 2016 revenues. We generate approximately 69% of our revenues
from the combined brokerage and risk management segments domestically, with the remaining 31% derived internationally, primarily in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the United Kingdom (U.K.). Substantially all of the
revenues of the corporate segment are generated in the United States (U.S.).

Shares of our common stock are traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol AJG, and we had a market capitalization at December 31, 2016 of approximately $9.3 billion. Information in this report is as of December 31, 2016 unless otherwise noted. We were reincorporated as a Delaware
corporation in 1972. Our executive offices are located at Two Pierce Place, Itasca, Illinois60143-3141,and our telephone number is(630) 773-3800.

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Potential factors that could impact
results include:



•Failure to successfully and cost-effectively integrate recently acquired businesses and their operations or fully realize synergies from such
acquisitions in the expected time frame;



•Volatility or declines in premiums or other adverse trends in the insurance industry;



•An economic downturn;



•Competitive pressures in each of our businesses;



•Risks that could negatively affect the success of our acquisition strategy, including continuing consolidation in our industry and growing interest in
acquiring insurance brokers on the part of private equity firms, which could make it more difficult to identify targets and could make them more expensive; the risk that we may not receive timely regulatory approval of desired transactions;
execution risks; integration risks; the risk of post-acquisition deterioration leading to intangible asset impairment charges; and the risk we could incur or assume unanticipated regulatory liabilities such as those relating to violations of
anti-corruption and sanctions laws;



•Our failure to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;







•Risks arising from our growing international operations, including the risks posed by political and economic uncertainty in certain countries (such as
the risks posed by protectionist local governments and underdeveloped or evolving legal systems), risks related to maintaining regulatory and legal compliance across multiple jurisdictions (such as those relating to violations of anti-corruption,
sanctions and privacy laws), and risks arising from the complexity of managing businesses across different time zones, geographies, cultures and legal regimes;



•Risks particular to our risk management segment, including any slowing of the trend toward outsourcing claims administration, and of the concentration
of large amounts of revenue with certain clients;



•The lower level of predictability inherent in contingent and supplemental commissions versus standard commissions;



•Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits;



•Our failure to apply technology effectively in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions, or failure to gain internal
efficiencies and effective internal controls through the application of technology and related tools;



•Our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster, cybersecurity attack or other significant disruption to business continuity;



•Damage to our reputation;



•Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including those related to governance and control requirements in particular jurisdictions,
international sanctions, or a change in regulations or enforcement policies that adversely affects our operations (for example, relating to insurance broker compensation methods or the failure of state and local governments to follow through on
agreed-upon income tax credits or other related incentives relating to our planned new corporate headquarters);



•Violations or alleged violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 or other anti-corruption laws and the
Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act, (which we refer to as FATCA);



•The outcome of any existing or future investigation, review, regulatory action or litigation;



•Our failure to adapt our services to changes resulting from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education
Affordability Reconciliation Act;



•Unfavorable determinations related to contingencies and legal proceedings;



•Improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary data;



•Significant changes in foreign exchange rates;



•Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions (including as a result of the new revenue recognition standard);



•Risks related to our clean energy investments, including the risk of intellectual property claims, utilities switching from coal to natural gas,
environmental and product liability claims, and environmental compliance costs;



•Disallowance of Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which we refer to as IRC) Section 29 or IRC Section 45 tax credits;



•The risk that our outstanding debt adversely affects our financial flexibility and restrictions and limitations in the agreements and instruments
governing our debt;



•The risk we may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions from subsidiaries;



•The risk of share ownership dilution when we issue common stock as consideration for acquisitions and for other reasons;



•Volatility of the price of our common stock;



•Risks related to the outcome of the U.S. congressional elections and the new administration; and



•Risks related to the vote in the U.K. to leave the European Union.

Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of, and are based on information available to us on, the date of the applicable document. All subsequent
written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to
update any such statements or release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risk factors
referred to above. Our future performance and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further
information about factors that could materially affect us, including our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in the “Risk Factors” section in Part I, Item 1A of this report.







Operating Segments

We report our results in three segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate. The major sources of our operating revenues are commissions, fees and supplemental and contingent commissions from
brokerage operations, and fees from risk management operations. Information with respect to all sources of revenue, by segment, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016, is as follows (in millions):



201620152014Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalBrokerageCommissions$2,439.143%$2,338.744%$2,083.045%Fees775.714%705.813%577.012%Supplemental commissions147.03%125.52%104.02%Contingent commissions107.22%93.72%84.72%Investment income and other58.91%60.31%47.61%3,527.963%3,324.062%2,896.362%Risk ManagementFees717.113%726.513%681.315%Investment income1.0—%0.6—%1.0—%718.113%727.113%682.315%CorporateClean energy and other investment income1,348.824%1,341.325%1,047.923%Total revenues$5,594.8100%$5,392.4100%$4,626.5100%

See Note 20 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information, including earnings
before income taxes and identifiable assets by segment for 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Our business, particularly our brokerage business, is subject
to seasonal fluctuations. Commission and fee revenues, and the related brokerage and marketing expenses, can vary from quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of policy inception dates and the timing of receipt of information from insurance
carriers. On the other hand, salaries and employee benefits, rent, depreciation and amortization expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. The timing of acquisitions, recognition of books of business gains and losses and the
variability in the recognition of IRC Section 45 tax credits also impact the trends in our quarterly operating results. See Note 19 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for unaudited quarterly operating results for 2016 and 2015.

Brokerage Segment

The
brokerage segment accounted for 63% of our revenues in 2016. Our brokerage segment is primarily comprised of retail and wholesale insurance brokerage operations. Our retail brokerage operations negotiate and place property/casualty,
employer-provided health and welfare insurance, and healthcare exchange and retirement solutions principally for middle-market commercial, industrial, public entity, religious andnot-for-profitentities. Many of our retail brokerage customers choose to place their insurance with insurance underwriters, while others choose to use alternative
vehicles such as self-insurance pools, risk retention groups or captive insurance companies. Our wholesale brokerage operations assist our brokers and other unaffiliated brokers and agents in the placement of specialized, unique andhard-to-placeinsurance programs.

Our primary sources of
compensation for our retail brokerage services are commissions paid by insurance companies, which are usually based upon either a percentage of the premium paid by insureds, or brokerage and advisory fees paid directly by our clients. For wholesale
brokerage services, we generally receive a share of the commission paid to the retail broker from the insurer. Commission rates are dependent on a number of factors, including the type of insurance, the particular insurance company underwriting the
policy and whether we act as a retail or wholesale broker. Advisory fees are dependent on the extent and value of the services we provide. In addition, under certain circumstances, both retail brokerage and wholesale brokerage services receive
supplemental and contingent commissions. A supplemental commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier that is above the base commission paid, is determined by the insurance carrier and is established annually in advance of the contractual
period based on historical performance criteria. A contingent commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier based on the overall profit and/or the overall volume of business placed with that insurance carrier during a particular calendar
year and is determined after the contractual period.







We operate our brokerage operations through a network of more than 600 sales and service offices located
throughout the U.S. and in 32 other countries. Most of these offices are fully staffed with sales and service personnel. We offerclient-servicecapabilities in more than 150 countries around the world through
a network of correspondent brokers and consultants.

Retail Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our retail insurance brokerage operations accounted for 83% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2016. Our retail brokerage operations place nearly all
lines of commercial property/casualty and health and welfare insurance coverage. Significant lines of insurance coverage and consultant capabilities are as follows:



AviationDisabilityGeneral LiabilityProducts LiabilityCasualtyEarthquakeHealth & WelfareProfessional LiabilityClaims AdvocacyErrors & OmissionsHealthcare AnalyticsPropertyCommercial AutoExchange SolutionsHuman ResourcesRetirementCompensationExecutive BenefitsInstitutional InvestmentSurety BondCyber LiabilityFiduciary ServicesLoss ControlVoluntary BenefitsDentalFine ArtsMarineWindDirectors & Officers LiabilityFireMedicalWorkers’ Compensation

Our retail brokerage operations are organized into more than 520 office locations primarily located in the U.S.,
Australia, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the U.K., and operate within certain key niche/practice groups, which account for approximately 73% of our retail brokerage revenues. These specialized teams target areas of business and/or
industries in which we have developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant niche/practice groups we serve are as follows:



AffinityFood/AgribusinessLife SolutionsReal EstateAutomotiveGlobal RisksManufacturingReligious/Not-for-ProfitAviation & AerospaceHealthcareMarineRestaurantConstructionHigher EducationMiningScholasticEnergyHospitalityPersonalTechnology/TelecomEntertainmentInsolvencyPrivate EquityTrade Credit/Political RiskEnvironmentalLaw FirmsProfessional GroupsTransportationFinancial InstitutionsLife SciencesPublic Entity

Our specialized focus on these niche/practice groups allows for highly-focused marketing efforts and facilitates the
development of value-added products and services specific to those industries or business segments. We believe that our detailed understanding and broad client contacts within these niche/practice groups provide us with a competitive advantage.

We anticipate that our retail brokerage operations’ greatest revenue growth over the next several years will continue to come from:



•Mergers and acquisitions;



•Our niche/practice groups and middle-market accounts;



•Cross-selling other brokerage products to existing customers; and



•Developing and managing alternative market mechanisms such as captives,rent-a-captivesand deductibleplans/self-insurance.

Wholesale Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our wholesale insurance brokerage operations
accounted for 17% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2016. Our wholesale brokers assist our retail brokers and othernon-affiliatedbrokers in the placement of specialized andhard-to-placeinsurance. These brokers operate through more than 80 office locations primarily located across the U.S., Bermuda and through our approved Lloyd’s of
London brokerage operation. In certain cases we act as a brokerage wholesaler and in other cases we act as a managing general agent or managing general underwriter distributing specialized insurance coverages for insurance carriers. Managing general
agents and managing general underwriters are agents authorized by an insurance company to manage all or a part of the insurer’s business in a specific geographic territory. Activities they perform on behalf of the insurer may include marketing,
underwriting (although we do not assume any underwriting risk), issuing policies, collecting premiums, appointing and supervising other agents, paying claims and negotiating reinsurance.

More than 75% of our wholesale brokerage revenues come fromnon-affiliatedbrokerage customers. Based on revenues, our domestic wholesale brokerage operation ranked
as one of the largest domestic managing general agents/underwriting managers/wholesale brokers/Lloyds coverholders according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s October 24, 2016 edition.







We anticipate growing our wholesale brokerage operations by increasing the number of broker-clients,
developing new managing general agency and underwriter programs, and through mergers and acquisitions.

Risk Management Segment

Our risk management segment accounted for 13% of our revenues in 2016. Our risk management segment provides contract claim settlement and
administration services for enterprises that choose to self-insure some or all of their property/casualty coverages and for insurance companies that choose to outsource some or all of their property/casualty claims departments. Approximately 68% of
our risk management segment’s revenues are from workers’ compensation-related claims, 28% are from general and commercial auto liability-related claims and 4% are from property-related claims. In addition, we generate revenues from
integrated disability management (employee absence management) programs, information services, risk control consulting (loss control) services and appraisal services, either individually or in combination with arising claims. Revenues for risk
management services are comprised of fees generally negotiated in advance on aper-claimorper-servicebasis, depending upon the type and estimated volume of the
services to be performed.

Risk management services are primarily marketed directly to Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies,not-for-profitorganizations and public entities on an independent basis from our brokerage operations. We manage our third party claims adjusting operations through a
network of more than 110 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Most of these offices are fully staffed with claims adjusters and other service personnel. Our adjusters and service personnel act solely on
behalf and under the instruction of our clients and customers.

While this segment complements our insurance brokerage offerings, more than
90% of our risk management segment’s revenues come from customers not affiliated with our brokerage operations, such as insurance companies and clients of other insurance brokers. Based on revenues, our risk management operation ranked as one
of the world’s largest property/casualtythird-partyclaims administrators according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’sMarch 24, 2016 edition.

We expect that the risk management segment’s most significant growth prospects through the next several years will come from:



•Increased levels of business with Fortune 1000 companies;



•Larger middle-market companies, captives;



•Program business and the outsourcing of insurance company claims departments; and



•Mergers and acquisitions.

Corporate Segment

The corporate segment
accounted for 24% of our revenues in 2016. The corporate segment reports the financial information related to our debt, clean energy investments, external acquisition-related expenses and other corporate costs. The revenues reported by this segment
in 2016 resulted almost solely from our consolidation of refined fuel operations, of which we control and own more than 50% of those operations. At December 31, 2016, significant investments managed by this segment include:

Clean Coal-Related Ventures

We have a
46.5% interest inChem-ModLLC(Chem-Mod),a privately-held enterprise that has commercialized multi-pollutant reduction technologies to reduce mercury, sulfur dioxide
and other emissions at coal-fired power plants. We also have a 12.0% interest in a privately-heldstart-upenterprise,C-QuestTechnology LLC, which owns technologies
that reduce carbon dioxide emissions created by burning fossil fuels.

Tax-AdvantagedInvestments

In 2009 and 2011, we built a total of 29 commercial clean coal production plants to produce refined coal usingChem-Mod’sproprietary technologies and in 2013, we purchased a 99% interest in a limited liability company that has ownership interests in four limited liability companies that own five commercial clean coal
production plants. We believe these operations produce refined coal that qualifies for tax credits under IRC Section 45. The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits substantially expires in December 2019 for the fourteen plants we
built and placed in service in 2009 (2009 Era Plants) and in December 2021 for the fifteen plants we built and placed in service in 2011, plus the five plants we purchased interests in that were placed in service in 2011 (2011 Era Plants).







International Operations

Our total revenues by geographic area for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 were as follows (in millions):



201620152014Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalBrokerage and risk management segmentsUnited States$2,944.669%$2,713.968%$2,405.968%United Kingdom712.117%766.919%726.220%Australia245.56%256.76%236.67%Canada138.23%136.63%85.02%New Zealand125.93%122.63%81.32%Other foreign79.72%54.41%43.61%Total brokerage and risk management4,246.0100%4,051.1100%3,578.6100%Corporate segment, substantially all United States1,348.81,341.31,047.9Total revenues$5,594.8$5,392.4$4,626.5

Total revenues generated by our U.K. and Australian based operations decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 due to
unfavorable foreign currency translation. See Notes 6, 17 and 20 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to our foreign operations, including goodwill allocation, earnings before income taxes
and identifiable assets, by segment, for 2016, 2015 and 2014.

International and Other Brokerage Related Operations

The majority of our international brokerage operations are in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, New Zealand and the U.K., targeting small to
medium enterprise risks.

We operate primarily as a retail commercial property and casualty broker throughout more than 35 locations in
Australia, 35 locations in Canada and 25 locations in New Zealand. In the U.K., we operate as a retail broker from approximately 100 locations. We also have an underwriting operation for clients to access Lloyd’s of London and other
international insurance markets, and a program operation offering customized risk management products and services to U.K. public entities.

In Bermuda, we act principally as a wholesaler for clients looking to access the Bermuda insurance markets and also provide services relating to the
formation and management of offshore captive insurance companies.

We also have strategic brokerage alliances with a variety of independent
brokers in countries where we do not have a local office presence. Through this global network of correspondent insurance brokers and consultants, we are able to fully serve our clients’ coverage and service needs in more than 150 countries
around the world.

Captive insurance companies

“rent-a-captive”

“rent-a-captive”

“rent-a-captive”

rent-a-captive

rent-a-captive







We have a wholly owned insurance company subsidiary based in the U.S. that cedes all of its insurance risk
to reinsurers or captives under facultative and quota-share treaty reinsurance agreements. These reinsurance arrangements diversify our business and minimize our exposure to losses or hazards of an unusual nature. The ceding of insurance does not
discharge us of our primary liability to the policyholder. In the event that all or any of the reinsuring companies are unable to meet their obligations, we would be liable for such defaulted amounts. Therefore, we are subject to credit risk with
respect to the obligations of our reinsurers or captives. In order to minimize our exposure to losses from reinsurer credit risk and insolvencies, we have managed that exposure by obtaining full collateral for which we typically require pledged
assets, including cash and/or investment accounts or letters of credit, to fully offset the risk. See Note 16 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to the insurance activity of our wholly
owned insurance company subsidiary for 2016, 2015 and 2014.

International Risk Management Operations

Our international risk management operations are principally in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Services are similar to those provided in the
U.S. and are provided primarily on behalf of commercial and public entity clients.

See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for information
regarding risks attendant to these foreign operations.

Markets and Marketing

We manage our brokerage operations through a network of more than 600 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and in 32 other countries. We manage our third party claims adjusting operations
through a network of more than 110 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Our customer base is highly diversified and includes commercial, industrial, public entity, religious andnot-for-profitentities. No material part of our business depends upon a single customer or on a few customers. The loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse
effect on our operations. In 2016, our largest single customer accounted for approximately 1% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments and our ten largest customers represented 3% of our revenues from the
combined brokerage and risk management segments in the aggregate. Our revenues are geographically diversified, with both domestic and international operations.

Each of our retail and wholesale brokerage operations has a small market-share position and, as a result, we believe has substantial organic growth potential. In addition, each of our retail and wholesale
brokerage operations has the ability to grow through the acquisition of small- tomedium-sizedindependent brokerages. See “Business Combinations” below.

While historically we have generally grown our risk management segment organically, and we expect to continue to do so, from time to time we consider
acquisitions for this segment.

We require our employees serving in sales or marketing capacities, plus all of our executive officers, to
enter into agreements with us restricting disclosure of confidential information and solicitation of our clients and prospects upon their termination of employment. The confidentiality andnon-solicitationprovisions of such agreements terminate in the event of a hostile change in control, as defined in the agreements.

Competition

Brokerage Segment

According toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 18, 2016 edition, we were the world’s fourth largest insurance broker based on
revenues. The insurance brokerage and service business is highly competitive and there are many insurance brokerage and service organizations and individuals throughout the world who actively compete with us in every area of our business.

Our retail and wholesale brokerage operations compete globally with Aon plc, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Willis Towers
Watson Public Limited Company, each of which has greater worldwide revenues than us. In addition, various other competing firms, such as Jardine Lloyd Thomson Group plc, Wells Fargo Insurance Services, Inc., Brown & Brown Inc., Hub
International Ltd., Lockton Companies, Inc. and USI Holdings Corporation, operate globally or nationally or are strong in a particular region or locality and may have, in that region or locality, an office with revenues as large as or larger than
those of our corresponding local office. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services we render and the overall costs to our clients. In addition,
for health/welfare products and benefit consultant services, we compete with larger firms such as Aon Hewitt, Mercer (a subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.), Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company;mid-marketfirms such as Lockton, USI Holdings, and Wells Fargo and the benefits consulting divisions of the national public accounting firms, as well as a vast number of local and regional brokerages and agencies.

Our wholesale brokerage and binding operations compete with large wholesalers such as CRC Insurance Services, Inc., RT Specialty, AmWINS
Group, Inc., as well as a vast number of local and regional wholesalers.

We also compete with certain insurance companies that write
insurance directly for their customers. Government benefits relating to health, disability, and retirement are also alternatives to private insurance and indirectly compete with us.







Risk Management Segment

Our risk management operation currently ranks as one of the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims administrators based on revenues, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s March 24, 2016 edition. While many global and regional claims administrators operate within this space, we compete directly with Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc., Broadspire Services, Inc. (a subsidiary of
Crawford & Company), ESIS (a subsidiary of Chubb Limited) and CorVel. Several large insurance companies, such as Travelers and Liberty Mutual, also maintain their own claims administration units, which can be strong competitors. In
addition, we compete with various smaller third party claims administrators on a regional level. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position are reputation for outstanding service and the ability to resolve
customers’ losses in the most cost-efficient manner possible.

Regulation

We are required to be licensed or receive regulatory approval in nearly every state and foreign jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, most jurisdictions require individuals who engage in
brokerage, claim adjusting and certain other insurance service activities to be personally licensed. These licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most jurisdictions, licensing laws and regulations generally grant
broad discretion to supervisory authorities to adopt and amend regulations and to supervise regulated activities.

Business Combinations

We completed and integrated 420 acquisitions from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2016, almost exclusively within our
brokerage segment. The majority of these acquisitions have been smaller regional or local property/casualty retail or wholesale operations with a strong middle-market client focus or significant expertise in one of our niche/practice groups. Over
the last decade, we have also increased our acquisition activity in the retail employee benefits brokerage and wholesale brokerage areas. The total purchase price for individual acquisitions has typically ranged from $1.0 million to
$50.0 million, although in 2014 we completed three large acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price consideration in excess of $1.7 billion.

Through acquisitions, we seek to expand our talent pool, enhance our geographic presence and service capabilities, and/or broaden and further diversify our business mix. We also focus on identifying:



•A corporate culture that matches our sales-oriented culture;



•A profitable, growing business whose ability to compete would be enhanced by gaining access to our greater resources; and



•Clearly defined financial criteria.

See Note 3 to our 2016 consolidated financial statements for a summary of our 2016 acquisitions, the amount and form of the consideration paid and the dates of acquisition.

Employees

As of December 31, 2016,
we had approximately 24,800 employees. We continuously review benefits and other matters of interest to our employees and consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form10-K,quarterly reports on Form10-Q,current reports on Form8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website atwww.ajg.comas soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such
reports may also be read and copied at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the
Securities and Exchange Commission at(800) SEC-0330.The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements and other information.







Disclosure pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act

In our Quarterly Reports on Form10-Qfor the first, second and third quarters of 2016, we disclosed certain
activities required to be reported under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, and such disclosures are incorporated herein by reference. In the fourth quarter of 2016, our U.K. domiciled subsidiary, Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Limited (AJGUK), acted
as insurance broker and advised clients in obtaining insurance coverage for activities related to Iran’s oil, gas and petroleum industries. AJGUK assisted clients in obtaining insurance, reinsurance and retrocession coverage for a variety of
activities in Iran, including insurance coverage for:



•The supply of crude oil to and from Iran;



•The transport and storage of oil from Iran;



•The shipment of heavy fuel oil to and from Iran;



•The docking and loading of oil shipments in Iran;



•The operation of vessels providing support services to offshore oil platforms that supply oil to Iran; and



•Other closely related activities pertaining to the supply and transportation of oil to and from Iran.

On January 16, 2016, the U.S. lifted the nuclear-related “secondary sanctions” imposed against Iran. In connection with this event, the
U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) issued General License H, which authorizes U.S.-owned or U.S.-controlled foreign entities to engage in certain transactions involving Iran that would otherwise be prohibited by
section 560.215 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations.

The activities described above were conducted in full compliance with
General License H. AJGUK generated total gross revenue of approximately $1,718 (in actual dollars) and net profit of approximately $309 (in actual dollars) from these activities.

AJGUK intends to continue acting as an insurance broker in connection with insurance coverages authorized by General License H.

