Item 1. Business.

Overview

Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to
herein as we, our, us or Gallagher, are engaged in providing insurance brokerage and third-party claims settlement and administration services to entities in the United States (U.S.) and abroad. We believe that our major strength is our ability to
deliver comprehensively structured insurance and risk management services to our clients. Our brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries between insurers and their customers and we do not assume underwriting risks.

Since our founding in 1927, we have grown from a one-person agency to the world’s fourth largest insurance broker based on revenues, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 15, 2013 edition, and the world’s largest property/casualty third-party claims administrator, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s April 22, 2013 edition. We have three
reportable segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate, which contributed approximately 68%, 19% and 13%, respectively, to 2013 revenues We generate approximately 77% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments
domestically, with the remaining 23% derived primarily from operations in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean, Singapore, New Zealand and the U.K. Substantially all of the revenues of the corporate segment are generated in the United States.

Shares of our common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AJG, and we had a market capitalization at
December 31, 2013 of approximately $6.3 billion. Information in this report is as of December 31, 2013 unless otherwise noted. We were reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1972. Our executive offices are located at Two Pierce
Place, Itasca, Illinois 60143-3141, and our telephone number is(630) 773-3800.

Information
Concerning Forward-Looking Statements



•Volatility or declines in premiums or other adverse trends in the insurance industry;



•An economic downturn, including one caused by a U.S. government shutdown and potential default, as well as uncertainty regarding the European debt
situation and market perceptions concerning the instability of the Euro;



•Competitive pressures in each of our businesses;



•Risks that could negatively affect the success of our acquisition strategy, including continuing consolidation in our industry and growing interest in
acquiring insurance brokers on the part of private equity firms, which could make it more difficult to identify targets and could make them more expensive, execution risks, integration risks, the risk of post-acquisition deterioration leading to
intangible asset impairment charges, and the risk we could incur or assume unanticipated regulatory liabilities such as those relating to violations of anti-corruption and sanctions laws;



•Our failure to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;



•Risks arising from our growing international operations, including the risks posed by political and economic uncertainty in certain countries, risks
related to maintaining regulatory and legal compliance across multiple jurisdictions (such as those relating to violations of anti-corruption, sanctions and privacy laws), and risks arising from the complexity of managing businesses across different
time zones, geographies, cultures and legal regimes;



•Risks particular to our risk management segment;



•The lower level of predictability inherent in contingent and supplemental commissions versus standard commissions;



•Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits;



•Our failure to apply technology effectively in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions, or our failure to gain internal
efficiencies and effective internal controls through the application of technology and related tools;







•Our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster, material cybersecurity attack or other significant disruption to business
continuity;



•Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including those related to international sanctions, or a change in regulations or enforcement
policies that adversely affects our operations;



•Violations or alleged violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (U.K. Bribery Act) or other
anti-corruption laws;



•Our failure to adapt our services to changes resulting from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education
Affordability Reconciliation Act (2010 Health Care Reform Legislation);



•Unfavorable determinations related to contingencies and legal proceedings;



•Damage to our reputation if clients are not satisfied with our services;



•Improper disclosure of personal data;



•Significant changes in foreign exchange rates;



•Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions;



•Risks related to our clean energy investments, including the risk of environmental and product liability claims and environmental compliance costs;



•Disallowance of Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which we refer to as IRC) Section 29 or IRC Section 45 tax credits;



•Risks related to losses on other investments held by our corporate segment;



•Restrictions and limitations in the agreements and instruments governing our debt;



•The risk of share ownership dilution when we issue common stock as consideration for acquisitions; and



•Volatility of the price of our common stock.

Any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be inaccurate, and there are no guarantees about our performance. The factors identified above are not exhaustive. Gallagher and its
subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. Except as
required by law, we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information about factors that
could materially affect Gallagher, including our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in the “Risk Factors” section in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

Operating Segments

We report our results in three segments: brokerage, risk management and
corporate. The major sources of our operating revenues are commissions, fees and supplemental and contingent commissions from brokerage operations and fees from risk management operations. Information with respect to all sources of revenue, by
segment, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013, is as follows (in millions):



201320122011Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalBrokerageCommissions$1,553.149%$1,302.552%$1,127.453%Fees450.515%403.216%324.115%Supplemental commissions77.32%67.93%56.03%Contingent commissions52.12%42.92%38.12%Investment income and other11.3—%11.1—%10.9—%2,144.368%1,827.673%1,556.573%Risk ManagementFees609.019%568.522%546.126%Investment income2.0—%3.2—%2.7—%611.019%571.722%548.826%CorporateClean energy and other investment income424.313%121.05%29.41%Total revenues$3,179.6100%$2,520.3100%$2,134.7100%







See Note 17 to our 2013 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information, including
earnings before income taxes and identifiable assets by segment for 2013, 2012 and 2011.

Our business, particularly our brokerage business,
is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Commission and fee revenues, and the related brokerage and marketing expenses, can vary from quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of policy inception dates and the timing of receipt of information from
insurance carriers. On the other the hand, salaries and employee benefits, rent, depreciation and amortization expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. The timing of acquisitions, recognition of books of business gains and
losses and the variability in the recognition of IRC Section 45 tax credits also impact the trends in our quarterly operating results. See Note 16 to our 2013 consolidated financial statements for unaudited quarterly operating results for
2013 and 2012.

Brokerage Segment

The brokerage segment accounted for 68% of our revenues in 2013. Our brokerage segment is primarily comprised of retail and wholesale insurance brokerage operations. Our retail brokerage operations
negotiate and place property/casualty, employer-provided health and welfare insurance, and healthcare exchange and retirement solutions principally for middle-market commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and not-for-profit entities. Many
of our retail brokerage customers choose to place their insurance with insurance underwriters, while others choose to use alternative vehicles such as self-insurance pools, risk retention groups or captive insurance companies. Our wholesale
brokerage operations assist our brokers and other unaffiliated brokers and agents in the placement of specialized, unique and hard-to-place insurance programs.

Our primary sources of compensation for our retail brokerage services are commissions paid by insurance carriers, which are usually based upon either a percentage of the premium paid by insureds or
brokerage and advisory fees paid directly by our clients. For wholesale brokerage services, we generally receive a share of the commission paid to the retail broker by the insurer. Commission rates depend on a number of factors, including the type
of insurance, the particular insurance company underwriting the policy and whether we act as a retail or wholesale broker. Advisory fees paid to us by our clients depend on the extent and value of the services we provide. In addition, under certain
circumstances, we receive supplemental and contingent commissions for both retail and wholesale brokerage services. A supplemental commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier that is above the base commission paid. The insurance carrier
determines the supplemental commission that is eligible to be paid annually based on historical performance criteria in advance of the contractual period. A contingent commission is a commission paid by an insurance carrier based on the overall
profit and/or the overall volume of business placed with that insurance carrier during a particular calendar year and is determined after the contractual period.

We operate our brokerage operations through a network of more than 400 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and in 22 other countries. Most of these offices are fully staffed with sales
and service personnel. In addition, we offer client-service capabilities in more than 140 countries around the world through a network of correspondent brokers and consultants.

Retail Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our retail insurance brokerage operations accounted
for 82% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2013. Our retail brokerage operations place nearly all lines of commercial property/casualty and health and welfare insurance coverage. Significant lines of insurance coverage and consultant capabilities
are as follows:



401(k) SolutionsDentalFireProducts Liability403(b) SolutionsDirectors & Officers LiabilityGeneral LiabilityProfessional LiabilityAviationDisabilityLifePropertyCasualtyEarthquakeMarineWindCommercial AutoErrors & OmissionsMedicalWorkers Compensation

Our retail brokerage operations are organized in more than 440 geographical profit centers primarily located in the U.S.,
Australia, Canada, the Caribbean and the U.K. and operate within certain key niche/practice groups, which account for approximately 62% of our retail brokerage revenues. These specialized teams target areas of business and/or industries in which we
have developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant niche/practice groups we serve are as follows:



AgribusinessGlobal RisksLife ScienceReligious/Not-for-ProfitAutomotiveHealth and WelfareMarineRestaurantAviation & AerospaceHealthcareManufacturingRetirementConstructionHealthcare AnalyticsPersonalScholasticEnergyHigher EducationPrivate EquityTechnology/TelecomEntertainmentHospitalityProfessional GroupsTransportationEnvironmentalHuman ResourcesPublic EntityVoluntary BenefitsExecutive BenefitsInternational BenefitsReal Estate







Our specialized focus on these niche/practice groups allows for highly-focused marketing efforts and
facilitates the development of value-added products and services specific to those industries or business segments. We believe that our detailed understanding and broad client contacts within these niche/practice groups provide us with a competitive
advantage.

We anticipate that our retail brokerage operations’ greatest revenue growth over the next several years will continue to come
from:



•Mergers and acquisitions;



•Our niche/practice groups and middle-market accounts;



•Cross-selling other brokerage products to existing customers; and



•Developing and managing alternative market mechanisms such as captives, rent-a-captives and deductibleplans/self-insurance.

Wholesale Insurance Brokerage Operations

Our wholesale insurance brokerage operations accounted for 18% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2013. Our wholesale brokers assist our retail brokers
and other non-affiliated brokers in the placement of specialized and hard-to-place insurance. These brokers operate through more than 65 geographical profit centers located across the U.S., Bermuda and through our approved Lloyd’s of London
brokerage operation. In certain cases, we act as a brokerage wholesaler and, in other cases, we act as a managing general agent or managing general underwriter distributing specialized insurance coverages for insurance carriers. Managing general
agents and managing general underwriters are agents authorized by an insurance company to manage all or a part of the insurer’s business in a specific geographic territory. Activities they perform on behalf of the insurer may include marketing,
underwriting (although we do not assume any underwriting risk), issuing policies, collecting premiums, appointing and supervising other agents, paying claims and negotiating reinsurance.

More than 75% of our wholesale brokerage revenues come from non-affiliated brokerage customers. Based on revenues, our domestic wholesale brokerage operation ranked as the largest domestic managing
general agent/underwriting manager according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s September 23, 2013 edition.

We anticipate
growing our wholesale brokerage operations by increasing the number of broker-clients, developing new managing general agency and underwriter programs, and through mergers and acquisitions.

Risk Management Segment

Our risk management segment accounted for 19% of our revenues in
2013. Our risk management segment provides contract claim settlement and administration services for enterprises that choose to self-insure some or all of their property/casualty coverages and for insurance companies that choose to outsource some or
all of their property/casualty claims departments. Approximately 68% of our risk management segment’s revenues are from workers compensation related claims, 28% are from general and commercial auto liability related claims and 4% are from
property related claims. In addition, we generate revenues from integrated disability management (employee absence management) programs, information services, risk control consulting (loss control) services and appraisal services, either
individually or in combination with arising claims. Revenues for risk management services are comprised of fees generally negotiated in advance on a per-claim or per-service basis, depending upon the type and estimated volume of the services to be
performed.

Risk management services are primarily marketed directly to Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies,not-for-profitorganizations and public entities on an independent basis from our brokerage operations. We manage our third-party claims adjusting operations through a network
of more than 100 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Most of these offices are fully staffed with claims adjusters and other service personnel. Our adjusters and service personnel act solely on behalf and
under the instruction of our clients and customers.

While this segment complements our insurance brokerage offerings, more than 90% of our
risk management segment’s revenues come from non-affiliated brokerage customers, such as insurance companies and clients of other insurance brokers. Based on revenues, our risk management operation ranked as the world’s largest
property/casualty third party claims administrator according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s April 22, 2013 edition.

We
expect that the risk management segment’s most significant growth prospects through the next several years will come from:



•Increased levels of business with Fortune 1000 companies;



•Larger middle-market companies, captives;



•Program business and the outsourcing of insurance company claims departments; and



•Mergers and acquisitions.







Corporate Segment

The corporate segment accounted for 13% of our revenues in 2013. The corporate segment reports the financial information related to our debt, clean energy investments, external acquisition-related
expenses and other corporate costs. The revenues reported by this segment in 2013 resulted primarily from our consolidation of refined fuel operations that we control and own more than 50% of and from leased facilities we operate and control. At
December 31, 2013, significant investments managed by this segment include:

Clean Coal Related Ventures

We have a 46.54% interest in Chem-Mod LLC, a privately-held enterprise (Chem-Mod) that has commercialized multi-pollutant reduction technologies to reduce
mercury, sulfur dioxide and other emissions at coal-fired power plants. We also have an 8.0% interest in a privately-held start-up enterprise (C-Quest Technology LLC), which owns technologies that reduce carbon dioxide emissions created by burning
fossil fuels.

Tax-Advantaged Investments

Prior to January 1, 2008, we owned certain partnerships formed to develop energy that qualified for tax credits under the former IRC Section 29. These consisted of waste-to-energy and synthetic
coal operations. These investments helped to substantially reduce our effective income tax rate from 2002 through 2007. The law that permitted us to claim IRC Section 29 tax credits expired on December 31, 2007. In 2009 and 2011, we built
a total of 29 commercial clean coal production plants to produce refined coal using Chem-Mod’s proprietary technologies and in 2013, we purchased 99% interests in five commercial clean coal production plants. We believe these operations produce
refined coal that qualifies for tax credits under IRC Section 45. The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits substantially expires in December 2019 for the fourteen plants we built and placed in service in 2009 (2009 Era Plants)
and in December 2021 for the fifteen plants we built and placed in service in 2011, plus the five plants we purchased interests in that were placed in service in 2011 (2011 Era Plants).

International Operations

Our total revenues by geographic area for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2013 were as follows (in millions):



201320122011Amount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalAmount% ofTotalBrokerage and risk management segmentsUnited States$2,118.377%$1,885.179%$1,695.781%United Kingdom434.416%352.314%260.512%Other foreign, principally Australia, Bermuda and Canada202.67%161.97%149.17%Total brokerage and risk management2,755.3100%2,399.3100%2,105.3100%Corporate segment, substantially all United States424.3121.029.4Total revenues$3,179.6$2,520.3$2,134.7

See Notes 5, 14 and 17 to our 2013 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to our
foreign operations, including goodwill allocation, earnings before income taxes and identifiable assets, by segment, for 2013, 2012 and 2011.

Brokerage Operations in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean and the U.K.

The majority of our international brokerage operations are in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, the Caribbean and the U.K.

We operate in Australia, the Caribbean and Canada primarily as a retail commercial property and casualty broker. In the U.K., we have a retail brokerage presence in more than 60 locations across the U.K.
targeting small to medium enterprise risks; an underwriting operation for clients to access the Lloyd’s of London and other international insurance markets, and a program operation offering customized risk management products and services to
U.K. public entities. In Bermuda, we act principally as a wholesaler for clients looking to access the Bermuda insurance markets and also provide services relating to the formation and management of offshore captive insurance companies.

We also have ownership interests in two Bermuda-based insurance companies and a Guernsey-based insurance company that operate segregated account
“rent-a-captive” facilities. These facilities enable clients to receive the benefits of owning a captive insurance company without incurring certain disadvantages of ownership. Captive insurance companies are created for clients to insure
their risks and capture underwriting profit and investment income, which is then available for use by the insureds generally for reducing future costs of their insurance programs.







We also have strategic brokerage alliances with a variety of international brokers in countries where we do
not have a local office presence. Through a network of correspondent insurance brokers and consultants in more than 140 countries, we are able to fully serve our clients’ coverage and service needs in virtually any geographic area.

Risk Management Operations in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K.

Our international risk management operations are principally in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Services are similar to those provided in the U.S. and are provided primarily on behalf of
commercial and public entity clients.

Markets and Marketing

We manage our brokerage operations through a network of more than 400 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and in 22 other countries. We manage our third-party claims adjusting operations
through a network of approximately 100 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Our customer base is highly diversified and includes commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and not-for-profit
entities. No material part of our business depends upon a single customer or on a few customers. The loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on our operations. In 2013, our largest single customer accounted for
approximately 1% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments and our ten largest customers represented 6% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments in the aggregate. Our revenues are
geographically diversified, with both domestic and international operations.

Each of our retail and wholesale brokerage operations has a
small market-share position and, as a result, we believe has substantial organic growth potential. In addition, each of our retail and wholesale brokerage operations has the ability to grow through the acquisition of small- to medium-sized
independent brokerages. See “Business Combinations” below.

While historically we have generally grown our risk management segment
organically, and we expect to continue to do so, from time to time we consider acquisitions for this segment.

We require our employees
serving in sales or marketing capacities, plus all of our executive officers, to enter into agreements with us restricting disclosure of confidential information and solicitation of our clients and prospects upon their termination of employment. The
confidentiality and non-solicitation provisions of such agreements terminate in the event of a hostile change in control, as defined in the agreements.

Competition

Brokerage Segment

According toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s July 15, 2013 edition, we were the fourth largest insurance broker worldwide based on total
revenues. The insurance brokerage and service business is highly competitive and there are many insurance brokerage and service organizations and individuals throughout the world who actively compete with us in every area of our business.

Our retail and wholesale brokerage operations compete with Aon plc, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Willis Group Holdings,
Ltd., each of which has greater worldwide revenues than us. In addition, various other competing firms, such as Jardine Lloyd Thomson Group plc, Wells Fargo Insurance Services, Inc., Brown & Brown Inc., Hub International Ltd., Lockton
Companies, Inc. and USI Holdings Corporation, operate nationally or are strong in a particular region or locality and may have, in that region or locality, an office with revenues as large as or larger than those of our corresponding local office.
We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services we render and the overall costs to our clients. In addition, for health/welfare products and benefit
consultant services, we compete with larger firms such as Aon Hewitt, Mercer (a subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.), Towers Watson & Co., mid-market firms such as Lockton, USI Holdings, and Wells Fargo and the
benefits consulting divisions of the national public accounting firms, as well as a vast number of local and regional brokerages and agencies.

Our wholesale brokerage operations compete with large wholesalers such as CRC Insurance Services, Inc., RT Specialty, AmWINS Group, Inc.,
Swett & Crawford Group, Inc., as well as a vast number of local and regional wholesalers.

We also compete with certain insurance
companies that write insurance directly for their customers. Government benefits relating to health, disability, and retirement are also alternatives to private insurance and indirectly compete with us.

Risk Management Segment

Our risk
management operation currently ranks as the world’s largest property/casualty third party claims administrator based on revenues, according toBusiness Insurancemagazine’s April 22, 2013 edition. While many global and regional
claims administrators operate within this space, we compete directly with Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc., Broadspire Services, Inc. (a subsidiary of Crawford & Company) and ESIS (a subsidiary of ACE Limited). Several large
insurance companies, such as AIG Insurance and Zurich Insurance, also maintain their own claims administration units, which can be strong competitors. In addition, we compete with various smaller third party claims administrators on a regional
level. We believe that our competitive position is due to our strong reputation for outstanding service and our ability to resolve customers’ losses in the most cost-efficient manner possible.







Regulation

We are required to be licensed or receive regulatory approval in nearly every state and foreign jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, most jurisdictions require individuals who engage in
brokerage, claim adjusting and certain other insurance service activities be personally licensed. These licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most jurisdictions, licensing laws and regulations generally grant
broad discretion to supervisory authorities to adopt and amend regulations and to supervise regulated activities.

Business Combinations

We completed and integrated 279 acquisitions from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2013, almost exclusively within our
brokerage segment. The majority of these acquisitions have been smaller regional or local property/casualty retail or wholesale operations with a strong middle-market client focus or significant expertise in one of our focus market areas. Over the
last decade, we have also increased our acquisition activity in the retail employee benefits brokerage and wholesale brokerage areas. The total purchase price for individual acquisitions have typically ranged from $1 million to
$50 million, although in 2013 we completed two large acquisitions with total purchase price consideration that was in excess of $300.0 million each.

Through acquisitions, we seek to expand our talent pool, enhance our geographic presence and service capabilities, and/or broaden and further diversify our business mix. We also focus on identifying:



•A corporate culture that matches our sales-oriented culture;



•A profitable, growing business whose ability to compete would be enhanced by gaining access to our greater resources; and



•Clearly defined financial criteria.

See Note 3 to our 2013 consolidated financial statements for a summary of our 2013 acquisitions, the amount and form of the consideration paid and the dates of acquisition.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013,
we had approximately 16,400 employees. We continuously review benefits and other matters of interest to our employees and consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form10-Q,current reports on Form8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge
on our website atwww.ajg.comas soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such reports may also be read and copied at the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at (800) SEC-0330. The
Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements and other information.

