Item 1. BUSINESS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)



GENERAL

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford”, the “Company”, “we”, or “our”) is a holding company for a group of subsidiaries that provide property and casualty insurance, group benefits and mutual funds to individual and business customers in the United States and continues to administer life insurance and annuity products previously sold.  The Hartford is headquartered in Connecticut and its oldest subsidiary, Hartford Fire Insurance Company, dates to 1810. AtDecember 31, 2016, total assets and total stockholders’ equity of The Hartford were$223 billionand$16.9 billion, respectively.



ORGANIZATION

The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels to individuals and businesses and is considered a leading property and casualty insurer. The Company endeavors to expand its insurance product offerings and distribution and capitalize on the strength of the Company's brand.  The Hartford Stag logo is one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry.  The Company is also working to increase efficiencies through investments in technology.

As a holding company, The Hartford is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and has no significant business operations of its own. The Company relies on the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet its obligations, pay dividends and repurchase common stock. Information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) — Capital Resources and Liquidity.



REPORTING SEGMENTS

The Hartford conducts business principally in six reporting segments including Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Property & Casualty ("P&C") Other Operations, Group Benefits, Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution, as well as a Corporate category.  The Hartford includes in its Corporate category the Company’s capital raising activities (including debt financing and related interest expense), purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments.



2016Revenues of$18,300[1] by Segment[1] Includes Revenue of $57 for P&C Other Operations and ($68) for Corporate.The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution, and competition of The Hartford's reporting segments. For further discussion of the reporting segments, including financial disclosures of revenues by product line, net income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note4-Segment Informationof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.










Part I - Item 1. Business



COMMERCIAL LINES

2016Earned Premiums of$6,651by Line of Business2016Earned Premiums of$6,651by Product



Principal Products and Services







AutomobileCovers damage to a business's fleet of vehicles due to collision or other perils (auto physical damage).  In addition to first party auto physical  damage, commercial auto covers liability for bodily injuries and property damage suffered by third parties and losses caused by uninsured or under-insured motorists.

PropertyCovers the building a business owns or leases as well as its personal property, including tools and equipment, inventory, and furniture. A commercial property insurance policy covers losses resulting from fire, wind, hail, earthquake, theft and other covered perils, including coverage for assets such as accounts receivable and valuable papers and records.  Commercial property may include specialized equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery, and ocean and inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for goods in transit and unique, one-of-a-kind exposures.

General LiabilityCovers a business in the event it is sued for causing harm to a person and/or damage to property. General liability insurance covers third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on the insured’s premises or arising out of their operations. General liability insurance may also cover losses arising from product liability and provide replacement of lost income due to an event that interrupts business operations.

Package BusinessCovers both property and general liability damages.

Workers' CompensationCovers employers for losses incurred due to employees sustaining an injury, illness or disability in connection with their work.  Benefits paid under workers’ compensation policies may include reimbursement of medical care costs, replacement income, compensation for permanent injuries and benefits to survivors.  Workers’ compensation is provided under both guaranteed cost policies (coverage for a fixed premium) and loss sensitive policies where premiums are adjustable based on the loss experience of the employer.

Professional LiabilityCovers liability arising from directors and officers acting in their official capacity and liability for errors and omissions committed by professionals and others. Coverage may also provide employment practices insurance relating to allegations of wrongful termination and discrimination.

BondEncompasses fidelity and surety insurance, including commercial surety, contract surety and fidelity bonds.  Commercial surety includes bonds that insure non-performance by contractors, license and permit bonds to help meet government-mandated requirements and probate and judicial bonds for fiduciaries and civil court proceedings.  Contract surety bonds may include payment and performance bonds for contractors.  Fidelity bonds may include ERISA bonds related to the handling of retirement plan assets and bonds protecting against employee theft or fraud.

Through its three lines of business of small commercial, middle market and specialty, commercial lines principally provides workers’ compensation, property, auto and general liability insurance products to businesses, primarily throughout theUnited States.  In addition, the specialty line of business provides professional liability, bond, inland marine and livestock insurance. The majority of Commercial Lines written premium is generated by small commercial and middle market, which provide coverage








Part I - Item 1. Business



options and customized pricing based on the policyholder’s individual risk characteristics. Within small commercial, both property and general liability coverages are offered under a single package policy, marketed under the Spectrum name. Specialty provides a variety of customized insurance products and services.

Small commercial provides coverages for small businesses, which the Company considers to be businesses with an annual payroll under $12, revenues under $25 and property values less than $20 per location.   Through Maxum Specialty Insurance Group ("Maxum") small commercial also provides excess and surplus lines coverage to small businesses including umbrella, general liability, property and other coverages.  Middle market provides insurance coverages to medium-sized businesses, which are companies whose payroll, revenue and property values exceed the small business definition.  The Company has a small amount of property and casualty business written internationally.  For U.S. exporters and other U.S. companies with international exposures, the Company covers property, marine and liability risks outside the U.S. as the assuming reinsurer under a reinsurance agreement with a third party.

In addition to offering standard commercial lines products, middle market includes program business which provides tailored programs, primarily to customers with common risk characteristics. Within specialty, a significant portion of the business is written through large deductible programs for national accounts. Other programs written within specialty are retrospectively-rated where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience.  Also within specialty, the Company writes captive programs business, which provides tailored programs to those seeking a loss sensitive solution where premiums are adjustable based on loss experience.

Marketing and Distribution

Commercial Lines provides insurance products and services through the Company’s regional offices, branches and sales and policyholder service centers throughout the United States. The products are marketed and distributed nationally using independent agents, brokers and wholesalers. The independent agent and broker distribution channel is consolidating and this trend is expected to continue.  This will likely result in a larger proportion of written premium being concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. In addition, the Company offers insurance products to customers of payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll companies and to members of affinity organizations.

Competition

Small Commercial

In small commercial, The Hartford competes against large national carriers, as well as regional carriers in certain territories. Competitors include stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market remains highly competitive as carriers seek to differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and leading technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford have improved their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with agents and customers through the use of technology, analytics and other capabilities that improve the process of evaluating a risk, quoting new business and servicing customers. The Company is also adding to its digital capabilities on-line and through mobile devices as customers and distributors



demand more access and convenience, and expanding product and underwriting capabilities to accommodate both larger accounts and a broader risk appetite.

The small commercial market has also experienced low written premium growth rates in the current economic conditions,  though the Company's written premium growth rate has been higher than the industry. This has put pressure on underwriting margins as competitors seek new business by increasing their underwriting appetite, and deepening their relationships with distribution partners. Also, carriers serving middle market-sized accounts are more aggressively competing for small commercial accounts, which are generally less price-sensitive. Some carriers, including start-up and non-traditional carriers, are looking to expand sales of business insurance products to small commercial market insureds through on-line and direct-to-consumer marketing.

Middle Market

Middle market business is considered “high touch” and involves individual underwriting and pricing decisions. The pricing of Middle market accounts is prone to significant volatility over time due to changes in individual account characteristics and exposure, as well as legislative and macro-economic forces. National and regional carriers participate in the middle market insurance sector, resulting in a competitive environment where pricing and policy terms are critical to securing new business and retaining existing accounts. Within this competitive environment, The Hartford is working to deepen its product and underwriting capabilities, and leverage its sales and underwriting talent with tools it has introduced in recent years.  Through advanced training and data analytics, the Company’s field underwriters are working to improve risk selection and pricing decisions.  In product development and related areas, such as claims and risk engineering, the Company is extending its capabilities in industry verticals, such as energy, construction, auto parts manufacturing, food processing and hospitality.  Through a partnership with AXA Corporate Solutions, the Company offers business insurance coverages to exporters and other U.S. companies with a physical presence overseas. The Company has also added new middle market underwriters in the Midwest and Western U.S. to deepen relationships with its distribution partners.

Specialty Commercial

Specialty commercial competes on an account- by-account basis due to the complex nature of each transaction. Competition in this market includes stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations.

For specialty casualty businesses, pricing competition continues to be significant, particularly for the larger individual accounts. As a means to mitigate the cost of insurance on larger accounts,  more insureds may opt for the loss-sensitive products offered in our national accounts segment, including retrospectively rated contracts, in lieu of guaranteed cost policies. Under a retrospectively-rated contract, the ultimate premium collected from the insured is adjusted based on how incurred losses for the policy year develop over time, subject to a minimum and maximum premium. Within national accounts, the Company is implementing a phased roll out of a new risk management platform, allowing customers better access to claims data and other information needed by corporate risk managers. This








Part I - Item 1. Business



investment will allow the Company to work more closely with customers to improve long-term account performance.In the bond business, favorable underwriting results in recent years has led to increased competition for market share, setting the stage for potential written price decreases.  Public construction project work has slowed, resulting in only modest growth for our contract surety business.In professional liability, large and medium-sized businesses are in differing competitive environments. Large public director & officers coverage, specifically excess layers, is under significant competitive price pressure.  The middle market private management liability segment is in a more stable competitive and pricing environment.





PERSONAL LINES

2016Earned Premiums of$3,898by  Line of Business2016Earned Premiums of$3,898by Product



Principal Products and ServicesAutomobileCovers damage to an individual insured’s own vehicle due to collision or other perils and is referred to as auto physical damage.  In addition to first party auto physical damage, automobile insurance covers liability for bodily injuries and property damage suffered by third parties and losses caused by uninsured or underinsured motorists.  Also, under no-fault laws, policies written in some states provide first party personal injury protection.  Some of the Company’s personal auto insurance policies also offer personal umbrella liability coverage for an additional premium.HomeownersInsures against losses to residences and contents from fire, wind and other perils.  Homeowners insurance includes owned dwellings, rental properties and coverage for tenants.   The policies may provide other coverages, including loss related to recreation vehicles or watercraft, identity theft and personal items such as jewelry.

Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to individuals across the United States, including a program designed exclusively for members of AARP (“AARP Program”). The Hartford's auto and homeowners products provide coverage options and pricing tailored to a customer's individual risk. The Hartford has individual customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders and, as a group, they represent a significant portion of the total Personal Lines' business. Business sold to AARP members, either direct or through independent agents, amounted to earned premiums of$3.3 billion,$3.2 billionand$3.0 billionin2016,2015and2014, respectively.During 2016, Personal Lines continued to refine its auto and home product offerings, i.e., its Open Road Auto andHome Advantage products.   Overall rate levels, price segmentation, rating factors and underwriting procedures were examined and updated to reflect the company’s actual experience with these products.   In addition, Personal Lines also continued working with carrier partners to provide risk protection options for AARP members with needs beyond the company’s current product offering.Marketing and DistributionPersonal Lines reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels, including direct-to-consumer and independent agents. In direct-to-consumer, Personal Lines markets its products through a mix of media, including direct mail,








Part I - Item 1. Business



digital marketing, television as well as digital and print advertising. Through the agency channel, Personal Lines provides products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market, primarily serving mature, preferred consumers. These independent agents are not employees of the Company.

Personal Lines has made significant investments in offering direct and agency-based customers the opportunity to interact with the company online, including via mobile devices.  In addition, its technology platform for telephone sales centers enables sales representatives to provide an enhanced experience for direct-to-consumer customers, positioning The Company's to offer unique capabilities to AARP’s member base.

Most of Personal Lines' sales are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, with the current agreement in place throughJanuary 1, 2023, to market automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to AARP's approximately38 millionmembers, primarily direct but also through independent agents. This agreement provides Personal Lines with an important competitive advantage given the expected growth of the population of those over age50and the strength of the AARP brand.  The Company has expanded its relationship with AARP to enable its members who are small business owners to purchase the Company's industry-leading small business products offered by Commercial Lines.

In addition to selling to AARP members, Personal Lines offers its automobile and homeowners products to non-AARP customers, primarily through the independent agent channel within select underwriting markets where we believe we have a competitive advantage.    Personal Lines will leverage its agency channel to target AARP members and other customer segments that value the advice of an independent agent and recognize the differentiated experience The Company provides.  In particular, the Company has taken action to distinguish its brand and improve profitability in the independent agent channel with fewer and more highly partnered agents.

Competition

The personal lines automobile and homeowners insurance



markets are highly competitive. Personal lines insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete principally on the basis of price, product, service, including claims handling,  the insurer's ratings and brand recognition. Companies with strong ratings, recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a competitive advantage. In recent years, insurers have increased their advertising in the direct-to-consumer market, in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. The growth of direct-to-consumer sales continues to outpace sales in the agency distribution channel.

Insurers that distribute products principally through agency channels compete by offering commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace, top tier insurers are offering online and self service capabilities that make it easier for agents and consumers to do business with the insurer. A large majority of agents have been using “comparative rater” tools that allow the agent to compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools increases price competition.  Insurers that are able to capitalize on their brand and reputation, differentiate their products and deliver strong customer service are more likely to be successful in this market.

The use of data mining and predictive modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business, and carriers have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments. The Company is investing in capabilities to better utilize data and analytics, and thereby, refine and manage underwriting and pricing.

Also, new auto technology advancements, including lane departure warnings, backup cameras, automatic braking and active collision alerts, are being deployed rapidly and are expected to improve driver safety and reduce the likelihood of vehicle collisions. However, these features include expensive parts, potentially increasing average claim severity.





PROPERTY & CASUALTY OTHER OPERATIONS

Property & Casualty Other Operations includes certain property and casualty operations, managed by the Company, that have discontinued writing new business and includes substantially all of the Company's asbestos and environmental("A&E") exposures.For a discussion of coverages provided under policies written with exposure to A&E, assumed reinsurance and all other non-A&E, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Critical Accounting Estimates, Property & Casualty Insurance Product Reserves.










Part I - Item 1. Business



GROUP BENEFITS

2016Premiums and Fee Income of$3,223



Principal Products and Services

Group LifeTypically is term life insurance provided in the form of yearly renewable term life insurance.  Other life coverages in this category include accidental death and dismemberment and travel accident insurance.Group DisabilityTypically comprised of both short-term and long-term disability coverage that pays a percentage of an employee’s salary for a period of time if they are ill or injured and cannot perform the duties of their job. Short-term and long-term disability policies have elimination periods that must be satisfied prior to benefit payments.  In addition to premiums, administrative service fees are paid by employers for leave management and the administration of underwriting, enrollment and claims processing for employer self-funded plans.Other ProductsIncludes other group coverages such as retiree health insurance, critical illness, accident and blanket coverages.

Group Insurance typically covers an entire group of people under a single contract, most typically the employees of a single employer or members of an association.Group Benefits provides group life, disability and other group coverages to members of employer groups, associations and affinity groups through direct insurance policies and provides reinsurance to other insurance companies. In addition to employer paid coverages, Group Benefits offers voluntary product coverages which are offered through employee payroll deductions. Group Benefits also offers disability underwriting, administration, and claims processing to self-funded employer plans. In addition, Group Benefits offers a single-company leave management solution,The Hartford Productivity Advantage, which integrates work absence data from the insurer’s short-term and long-term group disability and workers’ compensation insurance with its leave management administration services.Group Benefits generally offers term insurance policies, allowing for the adjustment of rates or policy terms in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, loss costs, declining interest rates and other factors. Policies are typically sold with one, two or three-year rate guarantees depending upon the product and market segment.



Marketing and DistributionThe Group Benefits distribution network is managed through a regional sales office system to distribute its group insurance products and services through a variety of distribution outlets including brokers, consultants, third-party administrators and trade associations. Additionally, Group Benefits has relationships with several private exchanges which offer its products to employer groups.CompetitionGroup Benefits competes with numerous insurance companies and financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. In order to differentiate itself, Group Benefits uses its risk management expertise and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors include the extent of products offered, price, the quality of customer and claims handling services, and the Company's relationship with third-party distributors and private exchanges. Active price competition continues in the marketplace, resulting in multi-year rate guarantees being offered to customers. Top tier insurers in the marketplace also offer on-line and self service capabilities to third party distributors and consumers. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business








Part I - Item 1. Business



provides a competitive advantage over smaller companies. Additionally, as employers continue to focus on reducing the cost of employee benefits, the shift to offering voluntary products paid for by employees will become greater. Competitive factors affecting the sale of voluntary products include the breadth of products, product education, enrollment capabilities and overall customer service.The Company is striving to expand its employer group product offerings, including the voluntary product suite, such as coveragesfor short term absences from work, critical illness and accident coverages. The Company's enhanced enrollment and marketing tools, such as My Tomorrow©, are providing additional opportunities to educate individual participants about supplementary benefits and deepen their knowledge about product selection.





MUTUAL FUNDS

Mutual Fund Segment AUM as ofDecember 31, 2016[1][1] Includes Mutual Fund Segment AUM for ETPs of$209.Mutual Fund AUM as ofDecember 31, 2016



Principal Products and Services

Mutual FundIncludes over 75 actively managed open-ended mutual funds across a variety of asset classes including domestic and international equity, fixed income, and multi-strategy investments, principally subadvised by two unaffiliated institutional asset management firms that have comprehensive global investment capabilities.ETPIncludes a suite of exchange-traded products ("ETP") traded on the New York Stock Exchange that track indices using both active and passive investment techniques, commonly referred to as strategic beta.  These investments strive to improve performance relative to traditional capitalization-weighted indices.Talcott ResolutionIncludes mutual fund assets held in separate accounts supporting legacy run-off Talcott Resolution variable insurance contracts.

Mutual Funds segment provides investment management, administration, product distribution and related services to investors through a diverse set of investment products in domestic and international markets. Our comprehensive range of products and services assist clients in achieving their desired investment objectives.  Our products are separated into three distinct categories referred to as Mutual Fund, ETP and Talcott Resolution.Marketing and DistributionOur mutual funds and ETPs are sold through national and regional broker-dealer organizations, independent financial advisers, defined contribution plans, financial consultants, bank trust groups and registered investment advisers.  Our distribution team is organized to sell in North America.  Talcott Resolutionrepresents variable insurance contracts from the legacy run-off Talcott Resolution variable insurance business and are not actively distributed.CompetitionThe investment management industry is mature and highly competitive.  Firms are differentiated by investment performance, range of products offered, brand recognition, financial strength, proprietary distribution channels, quality of service and level of fees charged relative to quality of investment products.  The Mutual Funds segment competes with a large number of asset management firms and other financial institutions and differentiates itself through superior fund performance, product breadth, strong distribution and competitive fees.










Part I - Item 1. Business



TALCOTT RESOLUTION

2016Revenues of$2,273Talcott Resolution Account Values as ofDecember 31, 2016(in billions)



Principal Products and Services





Individual Variable AnnuitiesRepresents variable insurance contracts entered into between the Company and an individual policyholder. Products provide a current or future income stream based on the value of the individual's contract at annuitization, and can  include a variety of guaranteed minimum death and withdrawal benefits.

Individual Fixed and Payout AnnuitiesFixed Annuities represent fixed insurance contracts entered into between the Company and an individual policyholder. Products guarantee a minimum rate of interest and fixed amount of periodic payments. Payout Annuities represent single premium immediate payouts, deferred and matured annuity contracts.

Institutional AnnuitiesThese are principally in the form of structured settlements, terminal funding agreements and guaranteed investment products. Structured settlements are contracts that provide periodic payments to claimants in settlement of a claim, a portion of which is related to the Company’s settlement of its own property and casualty insurance claims. Terminal funding agreements are single premium group annuities, most typically purchased by companies to fund pension plan liabilities. Guaranteed investment products are contracts that guarantee the owner repayment of principal plus a fixed or floating interest rate for a predetermined period of time.

Private Placement Life Insurance ("PPLI")Represents variable life insurance policies that have a cash value which appreciates based on investment performance of funds held and includes individual high net worth and Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI).

Retirement Plans and Individual LifeRepresents Retirement Plans and Individual Life contracts that have been reinsured to Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company ("Mass Mutual") and The Prudential Insurance Company of America ("Prudential"), a subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Inc., respectively. Account values associated with these businesses no longer generate asset-based fee income due to the sales of these businesses through reinsurance.

Talcott Resolution is comprised of the run-off of the Company's U.S. individual and institutional annuity and PPLI businesses.The U.S. individual annuity business in run-off includes both variable and fixed annuities with many contracts in an asset accumulation phase before the contract reaches the payout or annuitization phase. Most of the Company’s variable annuity contracts sold to individuals provide a guaranteed minimum death benefit (GMDB) during the accumulation period that is generally equal to the greater of (a) the contract value at death or (b) premium payments less any prior withdrawals and may include adjustments that increase the benefit, such as for maximum anniversary value (MAV). In addition, some of the variable annuity contracts provide a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (GMWB) whereby if the account value is reduced to a specified



level through a combination of market declines and withdrawals, the contract holder is entitled to a guaranteed remaining balance (GRB), which is generally equal to premiums less withdrawals. Many policyholders with a GMDB also have a GMWB.  Policyholders that have a product that offers both guarantees can only receive the GMDB or GMWB, but not both.The Talcott Resolution business segment also includes the Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses sold in 2013 through reinsurance agreements with the respective buyers as well as the 2014 sale of Hartford Life Insurance KK, a Japanese company ("HLIKK"). For further discussion of the HLIKK transaction, see Note2-Business Acquisitions, Dispositions and Discontinued Operationsof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.










Part I - Item 1. Business



CORPORATE

The Company includes in the Corporate category the Company's capital raising activities (including debt financing and related interest expense), purchase accounting adjustments related togoodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments.







RESERVES

Total Reserves as ofDecember 31, 2016Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses$27,605as ofDecember 31, 2016The reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses include a liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet reported, as well as estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these insurance claims, including reserves related to both Property & Casualty and Group Benefits.Further discussion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reserves, including asbestos and environmental claims reserves, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance. Additional discussion may be found in the Company’s accounting policies forinsurance product reserves within Note1-Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policiesof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Reserves for Future Policy Benefits$13,929as ofDecember 31, 2016[1]Represent reserves for the individual life and retirement plans businesses that are fully reinsured and have an offsetting reinsurance recoverable.Reserves for future policy benefits represent life-contingent reserves for which the company is subject to insurance and investment risk.








Part I - Item 1. Business



Other Policyholder Funds and Benefits Payable$31,176as ofDecember 31, 2016



[1]Represent reserves for individual life and retirement plans businesses that are fully reinsured and have an offsetting reinsurance recoverable.

Other policyholder funds and benefits payable represent deposits from policyholders where the company does not have insurance risk but is subject to investment risk.



UNDERWRITING FOR P&C AND GROUP BENEFITS

The Company underwrites the risks it insures in order to manage exposure to loss through favorable risk selection and diversification. Risk modeling is used to manage, within specified limits, the aggregate exposure taken in each line of business and across the Company.  For property and casualty business, aggregate exposure limits are set by geographic zone and peril. Products are priced according to the risk characteristics of the insured’s exposures.  Rates charged for Personal Lines products are filed with the states in which we write business.  Rates for Commercial Lines products are also filed with the states but the premium charged may be modified based on the insured’s relative risk profile and workers’ compensation policies may be subject to modification based on prior loss experience.  Pricing for Group Benefits products, including long-term disability and life insurance, is also based on an underwriting of the risks and a projection of estimated losses, including consideration of investment income.

Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience



adjusted for known trends, the Company’s response to rate actions taken by competitors, its expense levels and expectations about regulatory and legal developments. The Company seeks to price its insurance policies such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will cover underwriting expenses and the ultimate cost of paying claims reported on the policies and provide for a profit margin.

Geographic Distribution of Earned Premium (% of total)

LocationCommercial LinesPersonal LinesGroup BenefitsTotalCalifornia8%3%2%13%Texas4%2%1%7%New York5%2%1%8%Florida2%2%1%5%All other [1]29%19%18%66%Total48%28%23%100%[2]

[1]No other single state or country accounted for 5% or more of the Company's consolidated earned premium written in 2016.

[2]The total includes Talcott Resolution which makes up the other 1% of the total earned premium.



CLAIMS ADMINISTRATION FOR P&C AND GROUP BENEFITS

Claims administration includes the functions associated with the receipt of initial loss notices, claims adjudication and estimates, legal representation for insureds where appropriate, establishment of case reserves, payment of losses and notification to reinsurers.  These activities are performed by approximately 5,700 claim professionals located in 47 states, organized to meet the specific claim service needs for our various product offerings.  Our combined Workers’ Compensation and Group Benefits units enable us to leverage synergies for improved outcomes and to accelerate continuous improvements.

Claim payments for benefit, loss and loss adjustment expenses are the largest expenditure for the Company.



REINSURANCE

For discussion of reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management and Note8-Reinsuranceof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

Hartford Investment Management Company (“HIMCO”) is an SEC registered investment advisor and manages the Company's investment operations. HIMCO provides customized investment strategies, primarily for The Hartford's general account, as well as for The Hartford's pension plan, certain investment options in








Part I - Item 1. Business



Hartford Life Insurance Company's corporate owned life insurance products, a variable insurance trust and institutional clients.

As ofDecember 31, 2016and2015, the fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under management was approximately$98.3 billionand$102.9 billion, respectively, of which$2.2 billionand$5.4 billion, respectively, were held in HIMCO managed third party accounts.

General Account Investment Management

HIMCO manages the Company's portfolios to maximize economic value, and generate the returns necessary to support the Hartford’s various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include, but are not limited to, asset sector, credit issuer allocation limits, and maximum portfolio limits for below investment grade holdings. The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s results of operations from changes in economic conditions through asset diversification, asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and the use of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio management approach, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management.

Investments as ofDecember 31, 2016





ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT

The Company has insurance, operational and financial risks. For discussion on how The Hartford manages these risks, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management.





REGULATION

State Insurance Laws

State insurance laws are  intended to supervise and regulate insurers with the goal of protecting policyholders and ensuring the solvency of the insurers. As such, the insurance laws and regulations grant broad authority to state insurance departments  (the “Departments”) to oversee and regulate the business of insurance. The Departments monitor the financial stability of an insurer by requiring insurers to maintain certain solvency standards and minimum capital and surplus requirements; invested asset requirements; state deposits of securities;  guaranty fund premiums; restrictions on the size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; and adequate reserves and other necessary provisions for unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported. In addition, the Departments perform periodic market and financial examinations of insurers and require insurers to file annual and other reports on the financial condition of the companies. Policyholder protection is also regulated by the Departments through licensing of insurers, agents and brokers and others;  approval of premium rates and policy forms; claims administration requirements; and maintenance of minimum rates for accumulation of surrender values.

Many states also have laws regulating insurance holding company systems.  These laws require insurance companies, which are formed and chartered in the state (referred to as “domestic insurers”), to register with the state department of insurance (referred to as their “domestic state or regulator”) and file  information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. Insurance holding company regulations principally relate to (i) state insurance approval of the acquisition of domestic insurers, (ii) prior review or approval of certain transactions between the domestic insurer and its affiliates, and (iii) regulation of dividends made by the domestic insurer. All transactions within a holding company system affecting domestic insurers must be determined to be fair and equitable.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), the organization that works to promote standardization of best practices and assists state insurance regulatory authorities and insurers, conducted the “Solvency Modernization Initiative,” (the “Solvency Initiative” ).  The effort focused on reviewing the U.S. financial regulatory system and financial regulation affecting insurance companies including: (1) capital requirements; (2) corporate governance and risk management; (3) group supervision; (4) statutory accounting and financial reporting; and (5) reinsurance. As a result of the Solvency Initiative, among other items, the NAIC adopted the Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure Model Act , which was enacted by the Company’s lead domestic state of Connecticut. The model law requires insurers to make an annual confidential filing regarding their corporate governance policies  commencing in 2016. In addition, the NAIC adopted the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (“ORSA”), which also has been adopted by Connecticut. ORSA requires insurers to maintain a risk management framework and conduct an internal risk and solvency assessment of the insurer’s material risks in normal and stressed environments. Many state insurance holding company laws, including Connecticut, have also been amended to require








Part I - Item 1. Business



insurers to file an annual confidential enterprise risk report with their lead domestic regulator, disclosing material risks within the entire holding company system that could pose an enterprise risk to the insurer.

Federal and State Securities and Financial Regulation Laws

Certain of the Company’s life insurance subsidiaries sold variable life insurance, variable annuity, and some fixed guaranteed products that are “securities” registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Some of the products have separate accounts that are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”), and/or are regulated by state law. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation. Moreover, each registered separate account is divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund that is also registered as an investment company under the 1940 Act.

In addition, other subsidiaries of the Company sold and distributed the Company’s variable insurance products and retail mutual funds as broker-dealers and are subject to regulation promulgated and enforced by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the SEC and/or, in some instances, state securities administrators. Other subsidiaries operate as investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers’ Act of 1940, as amended, and are registered as investment advisers under certain state laws, as applicable.  Because federal and state laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in securities markets, they generally grant regulators broad rulemaking and enforcement authority. Some of these regulations include, among other things, regulations impacting sales methods, trading practices, suitability of investments, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds, corporate governance, capital, record keeping, and reporting requirements.

The Hartford operates in limited foreign jurisdictions.  The extent of financial services regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements, while others regulate financial services providers extensively. Foreign financial services providers in certain countries are faced with greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction.

Failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations may result in fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of our operations and/or our employees.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.

We have a trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the



combination of these two trademarks. The duration of trademark registrations may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration requirements. We regard our trademarks as highly valuable assets in marketing our products and services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement.  In addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to on-line quoting, insurance related processing, insurance telematics, proprietary interface platforms, and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations.  Patents are of varying duration depending on filing date, and will typically expire at the end of their natural term.



EMPLOYEES

The Hartford has approximately 16,900 employees as ofDecember 31, 2016.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company’s Internet address is www.thehartford.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on the investor relations section of  our website, https://ir.thehartford.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References in this report to our website address are provided only as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.










Part I -  Item 1A. Risk Factors



