Item 1.BUSINESS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)

General

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford”, the
“Company”, “we”, or “our”) is an insurance and financial services company. The Hartford,
headquartered in Connecticut, is among the largest providers of investment products and life,
property, and casualty insurance to both individual and business customers in the United States of
America. Also, The Hartford continues to administer business previously sold in Japan and the
United Kingdom. Hartford Fire Insurance Company, founded in 1810, is the oldest of The Hartford’s
subsidiaries. At December 31, 2011, total assets and total stockholders’ equity of The Hartford
were $304.1 billion and $22.9 billion, respectively.

Organization

The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial
services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution
channels to consumers and businesses. The Company is continuously seeking to develop and expand its
distribution channels, achieving cost efficiencies through economies of scale and improved
technology, and capitalizes on its brand name and The Hartford Stag Logo, one of the most
recognized symbols in the financial services industry.

The Company is currently focused on a customer-oriented strategy and organized around four
divisions: Commercial Markets, Consumer Markets, Wealth Management and Runoff Operations. In the
last two years, the Company announced the sales of certain businesses that are not core to its
focus and strategy. The Company continues to evaluate its strategy and business portfolio with the
goal of delivering shareholder value. As this review is ongoing and no decisions have yet been
made, the following discussions of the Company’s business and any forward-looking statements
contained herein assume a continuation of the Company’s current business focus and, as such, are
subject to change based on any actions taken as a result of the Company’s ongoing review.

As a holding company that is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, The Hartford Financial
Services Group, Inc. has no significant business operations of its own. Therefore, it relies on
the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash
flow to meet its obligations. Additional information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs
of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in the Capital Resources and Liquidity
section of Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations (“MD&A”).

The Company maintains a retail mutual fund operation whereby the Company, through wholly-owned
subsidiaries, provides investment management and administrative services to The Hartford Mutual
Funds, Inc. and The Hartford Mutual Funds II, Inc. (collectively, “mutual funds”), consisting of 57
non-proprietary mutual funds, as of December 31, 2011. The Company charges fees to these mutual
funds, which are recorded as revenue by the Company. These mutual funds are registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The mutual
funds are owned by the shareholders of those funds and not by the Company. In the fourth quarter of
2011, the Company entered into a preferred partnership agreement with Wellington Management
Company, LLP (“Wellington Management”) and announced that Wellington Management will serve as the
sole sub-advisor for The Hartford’s mutual funds, including equity and fixed income funds, pending
a fund-by-fund review by The Hartford’s mutual funds board of directors. As of December 31, 2011,
Wellington Management served as the sub-advisor for 29 of The Hartford’s non-proprietary mutual
funds and has been the primary manager for the Company’s equity funds.

Reporting Segments

The Hartford is organized into four divisions: Commercial Markets, Consumer Markets, Wealth
Management and Runoff Operations. In 2011, the Runoff Operations division was formed to reflect
the manner in which the Company is currently organized for purposes of making operating decisions
and assessing performance. As a result, the Company conducts business principally in nine
reporting segments, and segment data for prior reporting periods has been adjusted accordingly.
The Hartford includes in its Corporate category the Company’s debt financing and related interest
expense, as well as other capital raising activities; banking operations; certain fee income and
commission expenses associated with sales of non-proprietary products by broker-dealer
subsidiaries; and certain purchase accounting adjustments and other charges not allocated to the
reporting segments.

The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution,
and competition of Commercial Markets, Consumer Markets and Wealth Management. For further
discussion on the reporting segments, including financial disclosures on revenues by product, net
income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.





Commercial Markets

The Commercial Markets division is organized into two reporting segments; Property & Casualty
Commercial and Group Benefits.

Principal Products and Services

Property & Casualty Commercial provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability and
umbrella coverages under several different products, primarily throughout the United States, within its
standard commercial lines, which consists of The Hartford’s small commercial and middle market
lines of business. Additionally, a variety of customized insurance products and risk management
services including workers’ compensation, automobile, general liability, professional liability,
fidelity, surety, livestock and specialty casualty coverages are offered to large companies through
the segment’s specialty lines.

Standard commercial lines seeks to offer products with more coverage options and customized pricing
based on the policyholder’s individualized risk characteristics. For small businesses, those
businesses whose annual payroll is under $5 and whose revenue and property values are less than $15
each, coverages are bundled as part of a single multi-peril package policy marketed under the
Spectrum name. Medium-sized businesses, companies whose payroll, revenue and property values
exceed the small business definition, are served within middle market. The middle market line of
business provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella and marine
coverages. The sale of Spectrum business owners’ package policies and workers’ compensation
policies accounts for the majority of the written premium in the standard commercial lines.

Within the specialty lines, a significant portion of the specialty casualty business, including
workers’ compensation business, is written through large deductible programs where the insured
typically provides collateral to support loss payments made within their deductible. The specialty
casualty business also provides retrospectively-rated programs where the premiums are adjustable
based on loss experience. Captive and Specialty Programs provide insurance products and services
primarily to captive insurance companies, pools and self-insurance groups.

Group Benefits provides group life, accident and disability coverage, group retiree health and
voluntary benefits to individual members of employer groups, associations, affinity groups and
financial institutions. Group Benefits offers disability underwriting, administration, claims
processing and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded employer plans. Policies sold in this
segment are generally term insurance, allowing Group Benefits to adjust the rates or terms of its
policies in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, declining interest rates, and
other factors. Policies are typically sold with one, two or three-year rate guarantees depending
upon the product.

In addition to the products and services traditionally offered within each of its lines of
business, Commercial Markets offers The Hartford Productivity Advantage (“THPA”), a single-company
solution for leave management, integrating the insurer’s short- and long-term group disability and
workers’ compensation insurance with its leave management administration services.

Marketing and Distribution

Standard commercial lines provide insurance products and services through the Company’s home office
located in Hartford, Connecticut, and multiple domestic regional office locations and insurance
centers. The products are marketed nationwide utilizing brokers and independent agents. The
current pace of consolidation within the independent agent and broker distribution channel will
likely continue such that, in the future a larger proportion of written premium will likely be
concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. Additionally the Company offers insurance products to
customers of payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll
companies.

Specialty lines also provide insurance products and services through its home office located in
Hartford, Connecticut and multiple domestic office locations. Specialty lines markets its products
nationwide utilizing a variety of distribution networks including independent retail agents,
brokers and wholesalers.

The Group Benefits distribution network includes an experienced group of Company employees, managed
through a regional sales office system, to distribute its group insurance products and services
through a variety of distribution outlets including brokers, consultants, third-party
administrators and trade associations.

The Company is engaged in a nationwide joint sales initiative across standard commercial lines,
specialty lines and Group Benefits, facilitating the marketing of both integrated and traditional
products and services across commercial markets.





Competition

In the small commercial marketplace, The Hartford competes against a number of large national
carriers, as well as regional competitors in certain territories. Competitors include other stock
companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market has
become increasingly competitive as favorable loss costs in the past few years have led carriers to
differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and
cutting-edge technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford have improved their pricing
sophistication and ease of doing business with agents through the use of predictive modeling tools
and automation which speeds up the process of evaluating a risk and quoting new business.

Written premium growth rates in the small commercial market have begun to rebound, while
underwriting margins have been pressured by increases in loss costs, particularly in workers’
compensation, and higher catastrophes. A number of companies have sought to grow their business by
increasing their underwriting appetite, appointing new agents and expanding business with existing
agents. Also, carriers serving middle market-sized accounts are more aggressively competing for
small commercial accounts as small commercial business has generally been less price-sensitive.

Middle market business is characterized as “high touch” and involves case-by-case underwriting and
pricing decisions. Compared to small commercial lines, the pricing of middle market accounts is
prone to more significant variation or cyclicality over time, with more sensitivity to legislative
and macro-economic forces. The economic downturn which began in 2008 has driven a reduction in
average premium size as shrinking company payrolls, smaller auto fleets, and fewer business
locations depress insurance exposures. Additionally, various state legislative reforms in recent
years designed to control workers compensation indemnity costs have led to rate reductions in many
states. These factors, characterized by highly competitive pricing on new business, have resulted
in more new business opportunities in the marketplace as customers shop their policies for a better
price. In the face of this competitive environment, The Hartford continues to maintain a
disciplined underwriting approach. To gain a competitive advantage in this environment, carriers
are improving automation with agents and brokers, increasing pricing sophistication, and enhancing
their product offerings. These enhancements include industry specialization, with The Hartford and
other national carriers tailoring products and services to specific industry verticals such as
technology, health care and renewable energy.

Specialty lines is comprised of a diverse group of businesses that operate independently within
their specific industries. These businesses, while somewhat interrelated, have different business
models and operating cycles. Specialty lines competes on an account- by-account basis due to the
complex nature of each transaction. Competition in this market includes other stock companies,
mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. The
relatively large size and underwriting capacity of The Hartford provides opportunities not
available to smaller companies. Disciplined underwriting and targeted returns are the objectives
of specialty lines since premium writings may fluctuate based on the segment’s view of perceived
market opportunity.

For specialty casualty businesses, written pricing competition continues to be significant,
particularly for the larger individual accounts. Carriers are protecting their in-force casualty
business by initiating the renewal process well in advance of the policy renewal date, effectively
preventing other carriers from quoting on the business and resulting in fewer new business
opportunities within the marketplace. Within the national account business, as the market firms,
more insureds may opt for loss-sensitive products in lieu of guaranteed cost policies.

Carriers writing professional liability business are increasingly focused on profitable private,
middle market companies. This trend has continued as the downturn in the economy has led to a
significant drop in the number of initial public offerings, and volatility for all public
companies. Also, carriers’ new business opportunities in the marketplace for directors & officers
and errors & omissions insurance have been significantly influenced by customer perceptions of
financial strength, as investment portfolio losses have had a negative effect on the financial
strength ratings of some insurers.

In the surety business, favorable underwriting results over the past couple of years have led to
increased competition for market share, setting the stage for potential written price declines and
less favorable terms and conditions. Driven by the upheaval in the credit markets, new private
construction activity has declined dramatically, resulting in lower demand for contract surety
business.

Group Benefits competes with numerous other insurance companies and other financial intermediaries
marketing insurance products. This line of business focuses on both its risk management expertise
and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors affecting Group
Benefits include the variety and quality of products and services offered, the price quoted for
coverage and services, the Company’s relationships with its third-party distributors, and the
quality of customer service. In addition, active price competition continues in the marketplace
resulting in longer rate guarantee periods being offered to customers. Top tier carriers in the
marketplace also offer on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. The
relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business provides
opportunities not available to smaller companies.

In the commercial marketplace, the weak economy has prompted carriers to offer differentiated
products and services as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. In addition to the
initiatives specific to each of The Hartford’s Commercial Markets’ lines of business noted above,
the Company is leveraging its diverse product, service and distribution capabilities to deliver
differentiated value in the market, while simultaneously increasing its ability to access to its
own diverse customer base.





Consumer Markets

The Consumer Markets division constitutes the reporting segment.

Principal Products and Services

Consumer Markets provides standard automobile, homeowners and home-based business coverages to
individuals across the United States, including a special program designed exclusively for members
of AARP (“AARP Program”). The Hartford’s auto and homeowners products provide coverage options and
customized pricing tailored to a customer’s individual risk. The Hartford has individual customer
relationships with AARP Program policyholders and as a group these customers represent a
significant portion of the total Consumer Markets’ business. Business sold to AARP members, either
direct or through independent agents, amounted to earned premiums of $2.8 billion, $2.9 billion and
$2.8 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Consumer Markets also operates a member contact
center for health insurance products offered through the AARP Health program, which is in place
through 2018.

Marketing and Distribution

Consumer Markets reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels including direct
sales to the consumer, brokers and independent agents. In direct sales to the consumer, the
Company markets its products through a mix of media, including direct mail and ecommerce marketing,
television and advertising, both digitally and in publications. Most of Consumer Markets’ direct
sales to the consumer are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, which
continues until January 1, 2020, to market automobile, homeowners and home-based business insurance
products to AARP’s nearly 37 million members. This agreement provides Consumer Markets with an
important competitive advantage given the number of “baby boomers” over age 50, many of whom become
AARP members during this period.

Consumer Markets is focused on targeting specific customer groups and writing business through
partnerships and affinities other than AARP. During 2011, the Company entered into affinity
agreements with the American Kennel Club, Sierra Club and the National Wildlife Federation. In
addition to selling product through its relationship with AARP and other affinities, beginning in
2012, the Company will market direct to the consumer within select underwriting markets, acquired
through partnerships or list acquisitions, and to consumers in geographies where it is especially
competitive.

The agency channel provides customized products and services to customers through a network of
independent agents in the standard personal lines market. These independent agents are not
employees of The Hartford. An important strategic objective of the Company is to develop common
products and processes for all of its personal lines business regardless of the distribution
channel. During 2011, the Company substantially completed the rollout of its Open Road Advantage
product and, as of December 31, 2011, this product was available in 44 states across the Company’s
distribution channels, including direct and through independent agents. In addition, as of December
31, 2011, the Hartford Home Advantage product was available in 38 states across similar
distribution channels as the Open Road Advantage product.

Competition

The personal lines automobile and homeowners businesses are highly competitive. Personal lines
insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete on the basis of price,
product, service (including claims handling), stability of the insurer and brand recognition.
Companies with recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a
competitive advantage. In recent years, a number of carriers have increased their advertising in
an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. This has been particularly true of
carriers that sell directly to the consumer. Industry sales of personal lines insurance direct to
the consumer have been growing faster than sales through agents, particularly for auto insurance.

Carriers that distribute products mainly through agents compete by offering agents commissions and
additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace, top
tier carriers are offering on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. More
agents have been using “comparative rater” tools that allow the agent to compare premium quotes
among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools has further increased price
competition. Carriers with more efficient cost structures will have an advantage in competing for
new business through price. The use of data mining and predictive modeling is used by more and
more carriers to target the most profitable business and carriers have further segmented their
pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments.
Some companies, including The Hartford, have written a greater percentage of their new business in
preferred market segments which tend to have better loss experience but also lower average
premiums. In addition, a number of companies have invested in telematics — the use of devices in
insured vehicles to transmit information about driving behavior such as miles driven, speed,
acceleration, deceleration — and are using that information to price the risk. Companies that are
the first to introduce telematics may enjoy a competitive advantage through favorable risk
selection.





Wealth Management

The Wealth Management division consists of the following reporting segments: Individual Annuity,
Individual Life, Retirement Plans and Mutual Funds. Wealth Management provides investment products
for over 7 million customers and life insurance for approximately 711,000 customers.

In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company announced that Wellington Management Company, LLP
(“Wellington Management”) will serve as the sole sub-advisor for The Hartford’s non-proprietary
mutual funds, including equity and fixed income funds, pending a fund-by-fund review by The
Hartford’s mutual funds board of directors. As of December 31, 2011, Wellington Management served
as the sub-advisor for 29 of The Hartford’s non-proprietary mutual funds and has been the primary
manager for the Company’s equity funds.

As part of the Company’s strategic decision to focus on its U.S. businesses, the Company suspended
all new sales in its Japan and European operations in the second quarter of 2009 and divested its
Brazil joint venture, Canadian mutual fund business and its offshore insurance business in 2010.
Runoff businesses, including International Annuity, Institutional Annuity and the Private Placement
Life Insurance business, previously reported as part of Wealth Management are now included in the
Life Other Operations segment of the Runoff Operations division formed in 2011.

Principal Products and Services

Individual Annuity offers individual variable, fixed market value adjusted (“fixed MVA”), fixed
index and single premium immediate annuities in the U.S.

Individual Life sells a variety of life insurance products, including variable universal life,
universal life, and term life.

Retirement Plans provides products and services to corporations, municipalities, and not-for-profit
organizations pursuant to Sections 401(k), 457 and 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”), respectively.

Mutual Funds offers retail mutual funds, investment-only mutual funds and college savings plans
under Section 529 of the Code (collectively referred to as non-proprietary) and proprietary mutual
funds.

Marketing and Distribution

Individual Annuity’s distribution network includes national and regional broker-dealer
organizations, banks and other financial institutions and independent financial advisors. The
Company periodically negotiates provisions and terms of its relationships with unaffiliated
parties. The Company’s primary wholesaler of its individual annuities is Hartford Life
Distributors, LLC, and its affiliate, PLANCO, LLC (collectively “HLD”) which are indirect
wholly-owned subsidiaries of Hartford Life, Inc. HLD provides sales support to registered
representatives, financial planners and broker-dealers at brokerage firms and banks across the
United States.

Individual Life’s distribution network includes national and regional broker-dealer organizations,
banks, independent agents, independent life and property-casualty agents, and Woodbury Financial
Services, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary retail broker-dealer.

Retirement Plans distribution network includes Company employees with extensive retirement
experience selling its products and services through national and regional broker-dealer firms,
banks and other financial institutions.

Mutual Fund sales professionals are segmented into two teams; a retail team and an institutional
team. The retail team distributes The Hartford’s open-end funds and markets 529 college savings
plans to national and regional broker-dealer organizations, banks and other financial institutions,
independent financial advisors and registered investment advisors. The institutional team
distributes The Hartford’s funds to professional buyers, such as broker-dealers, consultants,
record keepers, and bank trust groups.

Competition

Individual Annuity competes with other life insurance companies, as well as certain banks,
securities brokerage firms, independent financial advisors, asset managers, and other financial
intermediaries marketing annuities, mutual funds and other retirement-oriented products. Product
sales are affected by competitive factors such as investment performance ratings, product design,
visibility in the marketplace, financial strength ratings, distribution capabilities, levels of
charges and credited rates, reputation and customer service. Individual Annuity’s annuity deposits
continue to decline due to competitive activity and the Company’s product and risk decisions. Many
competitors have responded to the equity market volatility by increasing the price of their living
benefit products and changing the level of the guarantee offered. Management believes that the most
significant industry de-risking changes have occurred. In 2011, the Company continued to enhance
its variable annuity product designed to meet customers future income needs while abiding by the
risk tolerances of the Company.

Individual Life competes with other life insurance companies in the United States, as well as other
financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. Product sales are affected primarily by the
availability and price of reinsurance, volatility in the equity markets, breadth and quality of
life insurance products being offered, pricing, relationships with third-party distributors,
effectiveness of wholesaling support, and the quality of underwriting and customer service. The
individual life industry continues to see a distribution shift away from the traditional life
insurance sales agents to the consultative financial advisor as the place people go to buy their
life insurance. Individual Life’s regional sales office system is a differentiator in the market
and allows it to compete effectively across multiple distribution outlets.





Retirement Plans compete with other insurance carriers, large investment brokerage companies and
large mutual fund companies. The 401(k), 457, and 403(b) products offer mutual funds wrapped in
variable annuities, variable funding agreements, or mutual fund retirement products. Plan sponsors
seek a diversity of available funds and favorable fund performance. Consolidation among industry
providers has continued as competitors increase scale advantages.

Mutual Funds compete with other mutual fund companies along with investment brokerage companies and
differentiate themselves through product solutions, performance, and service. In this
non-proprietary broker sold market, the Company and its competitors compete aggressively for net
sales.

Reserves

The Hartford establishes and carries as liabilities reserves for its insurance products to estimate
for the following:

•a liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet
reported, as well as estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these
claims;

•a liability equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of the life insurance
policyholder as of the consolidated financial statement date, otherwise known as the account
value;

•a liability for future policy benefits, representing the present value of future benefits
to be paid to or on behalf of policyholders less the present value of future net premiums;

•fair value reserves for living benefits embedded derivative guarantees; and

•death and living benefit reserves which are computed based on a percentage of revenues less
actual claim costs.

Further discussion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reserves, including
asbestos and environmental claims reserves, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical
Accounting Estimates — Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance.
Additional discussion may be found in the Company’s accounting policies for insurance product
reserves within Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Reinsurance

The Hartford cedes insurance to affiliated and unaffiliated insurers for both its property and
casualty and life insurance products. Such arrangements do not relieve The Hartford of its primary
liability to policyholders. Failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in
losses to The Hartford.

For property and casualty insurance products, reinsurance arrangements are intended to provide
greater diversification of business and limit The Hartford’s maximum net loss arising from large
risks or catastrophes. A major portion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product
reinsurance is effected under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some
instances, is negotiated on an individual risk basis, known as facultative reinsurance. The
Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect it against a
specified part or all of a layer of losses over stipulated amounts.

For life insurance products, The Hartford is involved in both the cession and assumption of
insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
the Company’s policy for the largest amount of life insurance retained on any one life by any one
of its operations was $10. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company did
not make any significant changes in the terms under which reinsurance is ceded to other insurers.
In addition, the Company has reinsured a portion of the risk associated with U.S. variable
annuities and the associated guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum
withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”) riders, Hartford Life Insurance K.K.’s (“HLIKK”), an indirect wholly
owned subsidiary, variable annuity contract and rider benefits, and Hartford Life Limited Ireland’s
(“HLL”), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, GMDB and GMWB annuity contract and rider benefits.

For further discussion on reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management.
Additional discussion may be found in the Company’s accounting policies for reinsurance within Note
6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Investment Operations

The majority of the Company’s investment portfolios are managed by Hartford Investment Management
Company (“HIMCO”). HIMCO manages the portfolios to maximize economic value, while attempting to
generate the income necessary to support the Company’s various product obligations, within
internally established objectives, guidelines and risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and
guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and
other characteristics within specified risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include,
for example, asset and credit issuer allocation limits, maximum portfolio limits for below
investment grade holdings and foreign currency exposure limits. The Company attempts to minimize
adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s results of operations from changes in economic
conditions through asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and through the use
of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio management approach, see Part II, Item
7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management — Credit Risk.

In addition to managing the general account assets of the Company, HIMCO is also a SEC registered
investment adviser for third party institutional clients, a sub-advisor for certain mutual funds
and serves as the sponsor and collateral manager for capital markets transactions. HIMCO
specializes in investment management that incorporates proprietary research and active portfolio
management within a disciplined risk framework that seeks to provide value added returns versus
peers and benchmarks. As of December 31, 2011
and 2010, the fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under management was approximately $165.0 billion
and $159.7 billion, respectively, of which $7.1 billion and $8.7 billion, respectively, were held
in HIMCO managed third party accounts.





Enterprise Risk Management

The Company has an enterprise risk management function (“ERM”) that is charged with providing
analysis of the Company’s risks on an individual and aggregated basis and with ensuring that the
Company’s risks remain within its risk appetite and tolerances. ERM plays an integral role at The
Hartford by fostering a strong risk management culture and discipline. The mission of ERM is to
support the Company in achieving its strategic priorities by:

•Providing a comprehensive view of the risks facing the Company, including risk
concentrations and correlations;

•Helping management define the Company’s overall capacity and appetite for risk by
evaluating the risk return profile of the business relative to the Company’s strategic
intent and financial underpinning;

•Assisting management in setting specific risk tolerances and limits that are measurable,
actionable, and comply with the Company’s overall risk philosophy;

•Communicating and monitoring the firm’s risk exposures relative to set limits and
recommending, or implementing as appropriate, mitigating strategies; and

•Providing valuable insight to assist leaders in growing the businesses and achieving
optimal risk-adjusted returns within established guidelines.

Enterprise Risk Management Structure and Governance

At The Hartford, the Board of Directors (“the Board”) has ultimate responsibility for risk
oversight. It exercises its oversight function through its standing committees, each of which has
primary risk oversight responsibility with respect to all matters within the scope of its duties as
contemplated by its charter. In addition, the Finance, Investment and Risk Management Committee
(“FIRMCo”), which is comprised of all members of the Board, has responsibility for oversight of all
financial risk exposures facing the Company, and all risks that do not fall within the oversight
responsibility of any other standing committee. The Audit Committee is responsible for
discussing with management risk assessment policies and overseeing enterprise operational risk.

At the corporate level, the Company’s Enterprise Chief Risk Officer (“ECRO” or “Chief Risk
Officer”) leads ERM. The Chief Risk Officer reports directly to the Company’s Chief Executive
Officer (“CEO”). Reporting to the ECRO are the Chief Insurance Risk Officer (“CIRO”), Chief
Operational Risk Officer (“CORO”), and the Chief Market Risk Officer (“CMRO”). The Company has
established the Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee (“ERCC”) that includes the Company’s CEO,
Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), Chief Investment Officer (“CIO”), Chief Risk Officer, the
divisional Presidents and the General Counsel. The ERCC is responsible for managing the Company’s
risks and overseeing the enterprise risk management program. The ERCC reports to the Board
primarily through FIRMCo and through interactions with the Audit Committee.

The Company also has committees that manage specific risks and recommend risk mitigation strategies
to the ERCC. These committees include, the Company and Division Asset Liability Committees,
Catastrophe Risk Committee, Emerging Risk Committees, and Operational Risk Committee (“ORC”).

Risk Management Framework

At the Company, risk is managed at multiple levels. The first line of risk management is generally
the responsibility of the lines of business. Senior business leaders are responsible for taking
and managing risks specific to their business objectives and business environment. In many cases,
the second line of risk management is the principal responsibility of ERM. ERM has the responsibility to ensure the
Company has insight into its aggregate risk and that risks are managed within the Company’s overall
risk tolerance. Internal Audit forms the third line of risk management by helping assess and ensure
that risk controls are present and effective.

The Company’s Risk Management Framework consists of four core elements:

1.Risk Culture and Governance: The Company has established policies for its major risks
and a formal governance structure with leadership oversight and an assignment of
accountability and authority. The governance structure starts at the Board and cascades to
a central executive risk management committee and then to individual risk committees across
the Company. In addition, the Company promotes a strong risk management culture and high
expectations around ethical behavior.

2.Risk Identification and Assessment: Through its ERM organization, the Company has
developed processes for the identification, assessment, and, when appropriate, response to
internal and external risks to the Company’s operations and business objectives. Risk
identification and prioritization has been established within each area, including
processes around emerging risks.

3.Risk Appetite and Limits: The Company has a formal risk appetite statement that is
approved by the Company’s ERCC and reviewed by the Board. Based on its risk appetite, the
Company has implemented stated risk tolerances and an associated limit structure for each
of its major insurance and financial risks. These formal limits are encapsulated in formal
risk policies that are reviewed at least annually by the ERCC.

4.Risk Monitoring, Controls and Communication: The Company monitors its major risks at
the enterprise level through a number of enterprise reports, including but not limited to,
a monthly risk dashboard, tracking the return on risk-capital across products,
and regular stress testing. ERM communicates the Company’s risk exposures to senior and
executive management and the Board, and reviews key business performance metrics, risk
indicators, audit reports, risk/control self assessments and risk event data.





Risk Exposures and Quantification

The Company quantifies its enterprise
insurance and financial risk exposures using multiple lenses including statutory, economic and, where appropriate, U.S. GAAP.
ERM leverages various modeling techniques and metrics to provide a view of the Company’s risk exposure in both normal and stressed environments. ERM regularly
monitors the Company’s risk exposure as compared to defined statutory limits and provides regular
reporting to the ERCC.

In order to quantify group capital levels, risk correlations and concentrations, and the potential
benefits of risk diversification at an enterprise level, the Company performs stress
testing and scenario analysis. The Company uses its Economic Capital Model (“ECM”) to quantify the
value of risk management across the business lines and to advance its risk-based
decision-making and optimization across risk and business. The Company also uses the ECM to
inform the attribution of risk capital to each line of business. ERM supports the attribution of risk capital by line of business and the analysis of
returns on risk capital in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer.

The Company categorizes its main risks as follows in order to achieve a consistent and disciplined
approach to quantifying, evaluating, and managing risk:

•Insurance Risk

•Operational Risk

•Financial Risk

•Business Risk

Insurance Risk

The Company defines insurance risk as its exposure to loss due to property, liability, mortality,
morbidity, disability, longevity and other perils and risks covered under its policies, including
adverse development on loss reserves supporting its products and geographic accumulations of loss
over time due to property or casualty catastrophes.

Operational Risk

The Company defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed
internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.

Financial Risk

Financial risk is broadly defined by the Company to include liquidity, interest rate, equity,
foreign exchange, and credit risks, all of which have the potential to materially impact the
Company’s financial condition. Financial risk also includes exposure to events that may cause
correlated movement in the above risk factors.

Business Risk

The Company manages its business risk at all levels of the organization. The Company categorizes
its business risk as strategic risk and management risk. Strategic risk is defined as the risk to
the defined company objectives from adverse developments in the Company’s strategy vis-à-vis
changing market conditions and competitor actions. Management risk is defined as the risk to
defined company objectives from the ineffective or inefficient execution of the Company’s strategic
and business decisions. Enterprise strategic and management risks are assessed through strategic,
business and operating plan reviews, as well as through management self-assessment processes and
benchmarking.

For further discussion on risk management, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management.

Regulation

Insurance companies are subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout
the United States. The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes
which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments.
Such powers relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency that must be met and
maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on
investments; establishing premium rates; claim handling and trade practices; restrictions on the
size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of
policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of companies; annual
and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of companies or for other
purposes; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum rates for
accumulation of surrender values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for
unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported
and unreported.

Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems such as The
Hartford. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the system is required to
register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish information concerning
the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the
operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. All transactions
within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the
insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting
the ownership or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions between an insurer and
any entity in its holding company system. In addition, certain of such transactions cannot be
consummated without the applicable insurance department’s prior approval. In the jurisdictions in
which the Company’s insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, the acquisition of more than 10%
of The Hartford’s outstanding common stock would require the acquiring party to make various
regulatory filings.





Certain of the Company’s life insurance subsidiaries sell variable life insurance, variable
annuity, and some fixed guaranteed products that are “securities” registered with the SEC under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Some of the products have separate accounts that are
registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940
Act”) and/or are regulated by state law. Separate account investment products are also subject to
state insurance regulation. Moreover, each separate account is generally divided into
sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund that is also registered as an
investment company under the 1940 Act (“Underlying Funds”). The Company offers these Underlying
Funds and retail mutual funds that are registered with and regulated by the SEC.

In addition, other subsidiaries of the Company are involved in the offering, selling and
distribution of the Company’s variable insurance products, Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds
as broker dealers and are subject to regulation promulgated and enforced by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the SEC and/or in, some instances, state securities administrators.
Other entities operate as investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 and are registered as investment advisers under certain state laws, as
applicable. One subsidiary is an investment company registered under the 1940 Act. Because
federal and state laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in securities
markets, they generally grant regulators broad rulemaking and enforcement authority. Some of these
regulations include, among other things, regulations impacting sales methods, trading practices,
suitability of investments, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds, corporate governance, capital,
record keeping, and reporting requirements.

The extent of insurance regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among
the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements,
while others regulate insurers extensively. Foreign insurers in certain countries are faced with
greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction. The
Hartford’s international operations are comprised of insurers licensed in their respective
countries.

In addition, as described under “Legislative Developments,” we are subject to a number of
Dodd-Frank Act provisions. Failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations may
result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or
limitation of the activities of our operations and/or our employees. We cannot predict the impact
of these actions on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret
laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products
and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the
combination of these two marks. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to
country and may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration
requirements. We regard our trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and
services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement.

Employees

The Hartford has approximately 24,400 employees as of December 31, 2011.

Available Information

The Hartford makes available, free of charge, on or through its Internet website
(http://www.thehartford.com) The Hartford’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after The Hartford
electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. None of the information made
available on The Hartford’s Internet website shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference
herein. Information filed or furnished to the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website (http://sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy
and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with
the SEC.







