Item 1.BUSINESS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)



General

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford”, the “Company”, “we”, or “our”) is an insurance and financial services company. The Hartford, headquartered in Connecticut, is among the largest providers of property and casualty insurance and group life and disability products to individual and business customers in the United States of America.  The Hartford is also a provider of mutual funds to investors and additionally, The Hartford continues to manage life and annuity products previously sold. Hartford Fire Insurance Company, founded in 1810, is the oldest of The Hartford’s subsidiaries. AtDecember 31, 2014, total assets and total stockholders’ equity of The Hartford were$245 billionand$18.7 billion, respectively.



Organization

The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels to consumers and businesses. The Company seeks on an ongoing basis to develop and expand its distribution channels, achieving cost efficiencies through economies of scale and improved technology, and capitalizes on its brand name and The Hartford Stag Logo, one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry.

In 2012, The Hartford concluded an evaluation of its strategy and business portfolio. The Company is currently focusing on its Property & Casualty, Group Benefits and Mutual Fund businesses. This realignment positions the organization for higher returns on equity, reduced sensitivity to capital markets, a lower cost of capital and increased financial flexibility.  As a result, the Company completed the sale of Hartford Life Insurance KK ("HLIKK") in 2014 and its Retirement Plans, Individual Life and U.K. annuity businesses in 2013.  For further discussion of these transactions, see Note2-Business Dispositionsand Note19-Discontinued Operationsof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition,  the Company sold Woodbury Financial Services, Inc. ("Woodbury Financial Services", "WFS"), an indirect wholly-owned broker-dealer subsidiary, and placed its annuity businesses into runoff in 2012.

As a holding company that is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. has no significant business operations of its own. Therefore, it relies on the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet its obligations. Additional information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) — Capital Resources and Liquidity.



Reporting Segments

The Hartford currently conducts business principally in six reporting segments including Commercial Lines (formerly Property & Casualty Commercial), Personal Lines (formerly Consumer Markets), Property & Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits, Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution, as well as a Corporate category.  The Hartford includes in its Corporate category the Company’s debt financing and related interest expense, as well as other capital raising activities; and purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments.

The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution, and competition of The Hartford's reporting segments. For further discussion of the reporting segments, including financial disclosures of revenues by product line, net income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note4-Segment Informationof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Commercial Lines

Principal Products and Services

Commercial Lines provides businesses with workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, marine and livestock coverages under several different products, primarily throughout the United States, within its standard commercial lines, which consists of The Hartford’s small commercial and middle market lines of business. Additionally, a variety of customized insurance products and risk management services including workers’ compensation, automobile, general liability, professional liability, bond, and specialty casualty coverages are offered through the segment’s specialty lines.

Standard commercial lines seeks to offer products with coverage options and customized pricing based on the policyholder’s individualized risk characteristics. For small businesses, those businesses whose annual payroll is under $5 and whose revenue and property values are less than $15 each, property and liability coverages are bundled as part of a single multi-peril package policy marketed under the Spectrum name. The small commercial line of business also provides workers' compensation and automobile coverages.  Medium-sized businesses, companies whose payroll, revenue and property values exceed the small business definition, are served within middle market. The middle market line of business provides workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, marine and livestock coverages.










Within the specialty lines, a significant portion of the specialty casualty business, including workers’ compensation business, is written through large deductible programs where the insured typically provides collateral to support loss payments made within their deductible. The specialty casualty business also provides retrospectively-rated programs where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. The captive programs business provides tailored property and casualty programs primarily to customers with common risk characteristics and those seeking a loss sensitive solution. The bond business provides (1) contract surety bonds for general, highway/heavy, trade and specialty contractors; (2) commercial surety required in a variety of businesses and court situations; and (3) fidelity coverage for businesses, financial institutions and public entities.  The financial products business provides a suite of management and professional liability insurance products including D&O (directors and officers) and E&O (errors and omissions) liability products.

Marketing and Distribution

Standard commercial lines provide insurance products and services through the Company’s home office located in Hartford, Connecticut, and multiple domestic regional office locations and insurance centers. The products are marketed nationwide utilizing brokers and independent agents. The current pace of consolidation within the independent agent and broker distribution channel will likely continue such that, in the future a larger proportion of written premium will likely be concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. Additionally the Company offers insurance products to customers of payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll companies.

Specialty lines also provide insurance products and services through its home office located in Hartford, Connecticut and multiple domestic office locations. Specialty lines markets its products nationwide utilizing a variety of distribution networks including independent retail agents, brokers and wholesalers.

Competition

In the small commercial marketplace, The Hartford competes against a number of large national carriers, as well as regional carriers in certain territories. Competitors include other stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market has become increasingly competitive as carriers seek to differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and cutting-edge technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford have improved their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with agents through the use of predictive modeling tools and automation which speeds up the process of evaluating a risk and quoting new business.

Written premium growth rates in the small commercial market have slowed in recent years due to the economy and underwriting margins have been pressured by increased competition. A number of companies have sought to grow their business by increasing their underwriting appetite, appointing new agents and expanding business with existing agents. Also, carriers serving middle market-sized accounts are more aggressively competing for small commercial accounts as small commercial business has generally been less price-sensitive.

Middle market business is characterized as “high touch” and involves case-by-case underwriting and pricing decisions. The pricing of middle market accounts is prone to significant variation or cyclicality over time, with sensitivity to legislative and macro-economic forces. Additionally, various state legislative reforms in recent years designed to control workers compensation indemnity costs have led to rate reductions in many states. These factors, characterized by highly competitive pricing on new business, have resulted in more new business opportunities in the marketplace as customers shop their policies for a lower price. In the face of this competitive environment, The Hartford continues to maintain a disciplined underwriting approach. To gain a competitive advantage in this environment, carriers are improving automation with agents and brokers, increasing pricing sophistication, and enhancing their product offerings. These enhancements include industry specialization, with The Hartford and other national carriers tailoring products and services to specific industry verticals such as technology, life sciences, construction and renewable energy.

Specialty lines is comprised of a diverse group of businesses that operate independently within their specific industries. These businesses, while somewhat interrelated, have different business models and operating cycles. Specialty lines competes on an account- by-account basis due to the complex nature of each transaction. Competition in this market includes other stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of The Hartford provides opportunities not available to smaller companies. Disciplined underwriting and targeted returns are the objectives of specialty lines since premium writings may fluctuate based on the segment’s view of perceived market opportunity.

For specialty casualty businesses, written pricing competition continues to be significant, particularly for the larger individual accounts. Carriers are aggressively negotiating renewals with customers by initiating the renewal process well in advance of the policy renewal date, to improve retention, reducing new business opportunities within the marketplace. Within the national account business, as written pricing increases, more insureds may opt for loss-sensitive products in lieu of guaranteed cost policies.

In the bond business, favorable underwriting results over the past couple of years have led to increased competition for market share, setting the stage for potential written price decreases.  New public construction activity is slowly rebounding from the historically low levels, resulting in slightly higher demand for contract surety business as compared to previous years.










Carriers writing professional liability business are increasingly focused on profitable private, middle market companies. This trend has continued as the downturn in the economy has led to a significant drop in the number of initial public offerings, and volatility for all public companies. Also, carriers’ new business opportunities in the marketplace for directors & officers and errors & omissions insurance have been significantly influenced by customer perceptions of financial strength, as investment portfolio losses have had a negative effect on the financial strength ratings of some insurers.

In the commercial marketplace, the weak economy has prompted carriers to offer differentiated products and services as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. In addition to the initiatives specific to each of The Hartford’s commercial lines of business noted above, the Company is leveraging its diverse product, service and distribution capabilities to deliver differentiated value in the market, while simultaneously increasing its ability to access its own diverse customer base for new product sales.



Personal Lines

Principal Products and Services

Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to individuals across the United States, including a special program designed exclusively for members of AARP (“AARP Program”). The Hartford's auto and homeowners products provide coverage options and customized pricing tailored to a customer's individual risk. The Hartford has individual customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders and, as a group, these customers represent a significant portion of the total Personal Lines' business. Business sold to AARP members, either direct or through independent agents, amounted to earned premiums of$3.0 billion,$2.9 billionand$2.8 billionin2014,2013and2012, respectively.

During 2014, Personal Lines rolled out its new auto product,Open Road, in 37 states, increasing pricing flexibility and market responsiveness. In addition, Personal Lines continued to roll out its telematics device,TrueLane, to more states, and the device is currently available in 40 states to both direct and independent agent customers. TheTrueLanedevice records the driving data of Personal Lines' customers, who receive a discount of up to 10% for the initial policy term with the potential for additional discounts upon renewal.

Marketing and Distribution

Personal Lines reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels including direct sales to the consumer, brokers and independent agents. In direct sales to the consumer, Personal Lines markets its products through a mix of media, including direct mail, digital marketing, television and advertising, both digitally and in publications. More recently, Personal Lines has begun marketing to consumers through online distribution partners who generate leads for the Company. Through the agency channel, Personal Lines provides products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market. These independent agents are not employees of the Company.

Most of Personal Lines' sales are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, with the current agreement in place throughJanuary 1, 2023, to provide automobile, homeowners and and personal umbrella coverages to AARP's nearly37 millionmembers, either direct or through independent agents. This agreement provides Personal Lines with an important competitive advantage given the number of “baby boomers” over age50, many of whom become AARP members. During 2014, the Company expanded its relationship with AARP to provide its industry-leading small business products offered by Commercial Lines to AARP members who are small business owners.

In addition to selling product through its relationship with AARP and through independent agents, Personal Lines markets direct to the consumer within select underwriting markets and where we believe we have a competitive advantage.

Competition

The personal lines automobile and homeowners businesses are highly competitive. Personal lines insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete on the basis of price, product, service (including claims handling), stability of the insurer and brand recognition. Companies with recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a competitive advantage. In recent years, a number of carriers have increased their advertising in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. This has been particularly true of carriers that sell directly to the consumer. Industry sales of personal lines insurance direct to the consumer have been growing faster than sales through agents, particularly for auto insurance.

Carriers that distribute products mainly through agents compete by offering agents commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace, top tier carriers are offering online and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. A large majority of agents have been using “comparative rater” tools that allow the agent to compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools increases price competition. Carriers with more efficient cost structures will have an advantage in competing for new business through price.










The use of data mining and predictive modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business and carriers have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments. Some companies, including The Hartford, have written a greater percentage of their new business in preferred market segments which tend to have better loss experience but also lower average premiums. In addition, a number of companies have invested in telematics — the use of devices in insured vehicles to transmit information about driving behavior such as miles driven, speed, acceleration, deceleration — and are using that information to price the risk and drive favorable risk selection. Also, new auto technology advancements — including lane departure warnings, backup cameras, active collision alerts — are being deployed rapidly and are expected to improve driver safety and reduce the likelihood of vehicle collisions. Such advancements could reduce loss frequency and therefore average premiums resulting in lower industry premiums and increased competition. Companies that are the first to recognize these trends by, for example, introducing vehicle safety discounts or otherwise reflecting these trends in pricing, may enjoy a competitive advantage.



Group Benefits

Principal Products and Services

Group Benefits provides group life, accident and disability coverage, group retiree health and voluntary benefits to individual members of employer groups, associations, affinity groups and financial institutions. Group Benefits also offers disability underwriting, administration, claims processing and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded employer plans. In addition, Group Benefits offers a single-company leave management solution,The Hartford Productivity Advantage, which integrates work absence data from the insurer’s short-term and long-term group disability and workers’ compensation insurance with its leave management administration services.

Group Benefits generally offers term insurance policies, allowing for the adjustment of rates or policy terms in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, declining interest rates, and other factors. Policies are typically sold with one, two or three-year rate guarantees depending upon the product and market segment.

Marketing and Distribution

The Group Benefits distribution network is managed through a regional sales office system, to distribute its group insurance products and services through a variety of distribution outlets including brokers, consultants, third-party administrators and trade associations.

Competition

Group Benefits competes with numerous other insurance companies and other financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. This line of business focuses on both its risk management expertise and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors affecting Group Benefits include the variety and quality of products and services offered, the price quoted for coverage and services, the Company’s relationships with its third-party distributors and private exchanges, and the quality of customer service. In addition, active price competition continues in the marketplace resulting in multi-year rate guarantees being offered to customers. Top tier carriers in the marketplace also offer on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business provides opportunities not available to smaller companies.



Mutual Funds

Principal Products and Services

Mutual Funds provides investment management, administration, distribution and related services to investors through investment products in both domestic and international markets, and is separated into two distinct asset categories referred to as Mutual Fund funds and Talcott funds.  Mutual Fund funds includes equity, fixed income, alternative and asset allocation investment products that are actively sold primarily through retail, bank trust and registered investment advisor channels.  Talcott funds represents those assets held in separate accounts supporting legacy runoff Hartford variable insurance products. Wellington Management Company, LLP ("Wellington Management") serves as sole sub-advisor for Mutual Funds.

Marketing and Distribution

The Mutual Funds distribution team is organized to sell across a variety of channels including national and regional broker-dealer organizations, independent financial advisors, defined contribution plans, consultants, record keepers, bank trust groups, and registered investment advisors.

Competition

Mutual Funds competes with other mutual fund companies and investment brokerage companies and differentiates itself through fund performance, product innovation and solutions, and service.












Talcott Resolution

Talcott Resolution is comprised of the runoff of the Company's U.S. annuity and institutional and private-placement life insurance businesses, and the retained Japan fixed payout annuity liabilities. Talcott Resolution's mission is to pursue opportunities to reduce the size and risk of the annuity book of business while honoring the Company's obligations to its annuity contractholders.  Talcott Resolution manages approximately930 thousandannuity contracts with account value of approximately$77 billionand private placement life insurance with account value of approximately $40 billionas of December 31, 2014.

In 2014, the Company completed the sale of its Japan annuity business. The Talcott Resolution business segment includes our Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses sold in 2013 through reinsurance agreements with the respective buyers. In addition, the Company completed the sale of its U.K. annuity business in 2013. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note2-Business Dispositionsand Note19-Discontinued Operationsof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Reserves

The Hartford establishes and carries as liabilities reserves for its insurance products to estimate for the following:

•a liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet reported, as well as estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these claims;

•a liability equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of the life insurance policyholder as of the consolidated financial statement date, otherwise known as the account value;

•a liability for future policy benefits, representing the present value of future benefits to be paid to or on behalf of policyholders less the present value of future net premiums;

•fair value reserves for living benefits embedded derivative guarantees; and

•death and living benefit reserves which are computed based on a percentage of revenues less actual claim costs.

Further discussion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reserves, including asbestos and environmental claims reserves, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance. Additional discussion may be found in the Company’s accounting policies for insurance product reserves within Note1-Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policiesof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Reinsurance

The Hartford cedes insurance to affiliated and unaffiliated insurers for both its property and casualty and life insurance products. Such arrangements do not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability to policyholders. Failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to The Hartford. For further discussion of reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management and Note7-Reinsuranceof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

For property and casualty insurance products, reinsurance arrangements are intended to provide greater diversification of business and limit The Hartford’s maximum net loss arising from large risks or catastrophes. A major portion of The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance product reinsurance is effected under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is negotiated on an individual risk basis, known as facultative reinsurance. The Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect it against a specified part or all of a layer of losses over stipulated amounts.

For life insurance products, The Hartford is involved in both the cession and assumption of insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. The Company has ceded reinsurance in connection with the sales of its Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses in 2013. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note2-Business Dispositionsof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition, the Company has reinsured to third parties a portion of the risk associated with U.S. individual variable annuities and the associated guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”) riders.












Investment Operations

The majority of the Company’s investment portfolios are managed by Hartford Investment Management Company (“HIMCO”). HIMCO manages the portfolios to maximize economic value, and generate the income necessary to support the Company’s various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include, for example, asset sector, credit issuer allocation limits, maximum portfolio limits for below investment grade holdings and foreign currency exposure limits. The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s results of operations from changes in economic conditions through asset diversification, asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and through the use of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio management approach, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A — Enterprise Risk Management.

In addition to managing the general account assets of the Company, HIMCO is also a SEC registered investment adviser for a variable insurance trust and third party institutional clients, a sub-advisor for certain mutual funds and serves as the sponsor and collateral manager for capital markets transactions. HIMCO specializes in investment management that incorporates proprietary research and active portfolio management within a disciplined risk framework that seeks to provide value added returns versus peers and benchmarks. As ofDecember 31, 2014and2013, the fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under management was approximately$109.5 billionand$112.6 billion, respectively, of which$6.2 billionand$6.1 billion, respectively, were held in HIMCO managed third party accounts.



Enterprise Risk Management

The Company has an enterprise risk management function (“ERM”) that is charged with providing analysis of the Company's risks on an individual and aggregated basis and with ensuring that the Company's risks remain within its risk appetite and tolerances. ERM plays an integral role at The Hartford by fostering a strong risk management culture and discipline. The mission of ERM is to support the Company in achieving its strategic priorities by:

•Providing a comprehensive view of the risks facing the Company, including risk concentrations and correlations;

•Helping management define the Company's overall capacity and appetite for risk by evaluating the risk/return profile of the business relative to the Company's strategic intent and financial underpinning;

•Assisting management in setting specific risk tolerances and limits that are measurable, actionable, and comply with the Company's overall risk philosophy;

•Communicating and monitoring the Company's risk exposures relative to set limits and recommending, or implementing as appropriate, mitigating strategies; and

•Providing insight to assist leaders in growing the businesses and achieving optimal risk-adjusted returns within established guidelines.

Enterprise Risk Management Structure and Governance

At The Hartford, the Board of Directors (“the Board”) has ultimate responsibility for risk oversight. It exercises its oversight function through its standing committees, each of which has primary risk oversight responsibility with respect to all matters within the scope of its duties as contemplated by its charter. In addition, the Finance, Investment and Risk Management Committee (“FIRMCo”), which is comprised of all members of the Board, has responsibility for the oversight of the investment, financial, and risk management activities of the Company, except as otherwise provided in the Company Governance Guidelines.  The oversight of all risk exposures includes, but is not limited to:

•Market risk, including credit, interest rate, equity market, and foreign exchange;

•Liquidity and capital requirements of the Company;

•Insurance risks, including those  arising out of catastrophes and acts of terrorism;

•Cybersecurity risk; and

•Any other risk that poses a material threat to the strategic viability of the Company.

The Audit Committee is responsible for, among other things, discussing with management policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.










At the corporate level, the Company's Enterprise Chief Risk Officer (“Chief Risk Officer”) leads ERM. The Chief Risk Officer reports directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). The Company has established the Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee (“ERCC”) that includes the Company’s CEO, President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel and others as deemed necessary by the committee chair.  The ERCC oversees the risk profile and risk management practices of the Company. The ERCC also oversees capital management and the allocation of capital to the lines of business. The ERCC is responsible for significant company-wide risk exposures including, but not limited to, financial risk, liquidity and capital requirements, insurance risk, operational risks, and any other risk deemed significant.  The ERCC reports to the Board primarily through the FIRMCo and through interactions with the Audit Committee.

The Company also has committees that manage specific risks and recommend risk mitigation strategies to the ERCC. These committees include, but are not limited to, Asset Liability Committees, Catastrophe Risk Committee, Emerging Risk Committees, Model Oversight Committees and Operational Risk Committee.

Risk Management Framework

At the Company, risk is managed at multiple levels. The Hartford utilizes three lines of defense in risk management to integrate its risk management strategy and appetite into all areas of the Company. The first line of defense in risk management is generally the responsibility of the lines of business.  Senior business leaders are responsible for managing risks specific to their business objectives and business environment. The second line of defense in risk management is generally owned by ERM. ERM has the responsibility to ensure that the Company has insight into its aggregate risk and that risks are managed within the Company's overall risk appetite. Legal and Compliance also commonly act as a second line of defense in risk management. The third line of defense in risk management is owned by Internal Audit.  Internal Audit provides independent assurance that each business unit’s controls are present, compliant, and effective, informs the risk identification process and provides audit and consultative support to the Company.

The Company's Risk Management Framework consists of five core elements:

1.Risk Culture and Governance: The Company has established policies for its major risks and a formal governance structure with leadership oversight and an assignment of accountability and authority. The governance structure starts at the Board and cascades to the ERCC and then to individual risk committees across the Company. In addition, the Company promotes a strong risk management culture and high expectations around ethical behavior.

2.Risk Identification and Assessment: Through its ERM organization, the Company has developed processes for the identification, assessment, and, when appropriate, response to internal and external risks to the Company's operations and business objectives. Risk identification and prioritization has been established within each area, including processes around emerging risks.

3.Risk Appetite, Tolerances, and Limits: The Company has a formal enterprise risk appetite framework that is approved by the ERCC and reviewed by the Board. The risk appetite framework includes an enterprise risk appetite statement, risk preferences, risk tolerances and enterprise risk limits.  Enterprise risk limits which quantify tolerances into specific limits by risk category are defined in underlying enterprise risk policies.

4.Risk Management and Controls: While the Company utilizes the committee structure to elevate risk discussions and decision-making, there are a variety of working groups that provide decisioning and management of risk within determined tolerances and limits.  ERM and the appropriate governing risk committees regularly monitor the Company's risk exposure as compared to defined limits and tolerances and provides regular reporting to the ERCC.

5.Risk Reporting and Communication: The Company monitors its major risks at the enterprise level through a number of enterprise reports, including but not limited to, a monthly risk dashboard, and regular stress testing.  ERM communicates the Company's risk exposures to senior and executive management and the Board, and reviews key business performance metrics, risk indicators, audit reports, risk/control self-assessments and risk event data.

Risk Exposures and Quantification

The Company quantifies its enterprise insurance and financial risk exposures using multiple lenses including statutory, economic and, where appropriate, U.S. GAAP. ERM leverages various modeling techniques and metrics to provide a view of the Company's risk exposure in both normal and stressed environments.










In order to quantify group capital levels the Company uses an Economic Capital Model (“ECM”) to quantify the value of risk management across the business lines and to advance its risk-based decision-making and optimization across risk and business. The Company also uses the ECM to inform capital attribution. The Company categorizes its main risks as follows in order to achieve a consistent and disciplined approach to quantifying, evaluating, and managing risk:

•Insurance Risk

•Operational Risk

•Financial Risk

Additionally, the Company manages its legal and management risks, across the enterprise.  Management risk includes strategic risk, the risk of ineffective or inefficient execution of the Company's strategy, as well as tax risk and reputational risk.

Insurance Risk

The Company defines insurance risk as its exposure to loss due to property, liability, mortality, morbidity, disability, longevity and other perils and risks covered under its policies, including adverse development on loss reserves supporting its products and geographic accumulations of loss over time due to property or casualty catastrophes.

Operational Risk

The Company defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.

Financial Risk

Financial risk is broadly defined by the Company to include liquidity, interest rate, equity, foreign exchange, and credit risks, all of which have the potential to materially impact the Company's financial condition. Financial risk also includes exposure to events that may cause correlated movement in the above risk factors.

For further discussion on risk management, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management.



Regulation

Insurance companies are subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the United States. The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such powers relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments; establishing premium rates; claim handling and trade practices; restrictions on the size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of companies or for other purposes; and minimum rates for accumulation of surrender values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported.

Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems such as The Hartford. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the system is required to register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions between an insurer and any entity in its holding company system. In addition, certain of such transactions cannot be consummated without the applicable insurance department’s prior approval. In the jurisdictions in which the Company’s insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, the acquisition of more than 10% of The Hartford’s outstanding common stock would require the acquiring party to make various regulatory filings.

Certain of the Company’s life insurance subsidiaries sold variable life insurance, variable annuity, and some fixed guaranteed products that are “securities” registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Some of the products have separate accounts that are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”), and/or are regulated by state law. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation. Moreover, each separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund that is also registered as an investment company under the 1940 Act (“Underlying Funds”). The Company offers these Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds that are registered with and regulated by the SEC.










In addition, other subsidiaries of the Company sold and distributed the Company’s variable insurance products, Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds as broker-dealers and are subject to regulation promulgated and enforced by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the SEC and/or in, some instances, state securities administrators. Other entities operate as investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are registered as investment advisers under certain state laws, as applicable.  Because federal and state laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in securities markets, they generally grant regulators broad rulemaking and enforcement authority. Some of these regulations include, among other things, regulations impacting sales methods, trading practices, suitability of investments, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds, corporate governance, capital, record keeping, and reporting requirements.

The extent of insurance regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements, while others regulate insurers extensively. Foreign insurers in certain countries are faced with greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction. The Hartford’s international operations are comprised of insurers licensed in their respective countries.

In addition, as described under “Legislative Developments,” we are subject to a number of  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) provisions. Failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations may result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of our operations and/or our employees. We cannot predict the impact of these actions on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.

We have a trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the combination of these two marks. The duration of trademark registrations may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration requirements. We regard our trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement.  In addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to on-line quoting, insurance related processing, insurance telematics, proprietary interface platforms, and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations.  Patents are of varying duration depending on filing date, and will typically expire at the end of their natural term.



Employees

The Hartford has approximately17,500employees as ofDecember 31, 2014.



Available Information

The Company’s Internet address is www.thehartford.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on the investor relations section of  our website, http://ir.thehartford.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References in this report to our website address are provided only as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.












