Item 1.Business



General



HCA Inc. is one of the leading health care services companies in
    the United States. At December 31, 2009, we operated 163
    hospitals, comprised of 157 general, acute care hospitals; five
    psychiatric hospitals; and one rehabilitation hospital. The 163
    hospital total includes eight hospitals (seven general, acute
    care hospitals and one rehabilitation hospital) owned by joint
    ventures in which an affiliate of HCA is a partner, and these
    joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. In
    addition, we operated 105 freestanding surgery centers, eight of
    which are owned by joint ventures in which an affiliate of HCA
    is a partner, and these joint ventures are accounted for using
    the equity method. Our facilities are located in 20 states
    and England. The terms “Company,” “HCA,”
    “we,” “our” or “us,” as used
    herein, refer to HCA Inc. and its affiliates unless otherwise
    stated or indicated by context. The term “affiliates”
    means direct and indirect subsidiaries of HCA Inc. and
    partnerships and joint ventures in which such subsidiaries are
    partners. The terms “facilities” or
    “hospitals” refer to entities owned and operated by
    affiliates of HCA and the term “employees” refers to
    employees of affiliates of HCA.



Our primary objective is to provide a comprehensive array of
    quality health care services in the most cost-effective manner
    possible. Our general, acute care hospitals typically provide a
    full range of services to accommodate such medical specialties
    as internal medicine, general surgery, cardiology, oncology,
    neurosurgery, orthopedics and obstetrics, as well as diagnostic
    and emergency services. Outpatient and ancillary health care
    services are provided by our general, acute care hospitals,
    freestanding surgery centers, diagnostic centers and
    rehabilitation facilities. Our psychiatric hospitals provide a
    full range of mental health care services through inpatient,
    partial hospitalization and outpatient settings.



The Company was incorporated in Nevada in January 1990 and
    reincorporated in Delaware in September 1993. Our principal
    executive offices are located at One Park Plaza, Nashville,
    Tennessee 37203, and our telephone number is(615) 344-9551.





Available
    Information



We file certain reports with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“the SEC”), including annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Qand current reports onForm 8-K.The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC
    at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public
    may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.We are an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet
    site athttp://www.sec.govthat contains the reports, proxy and information statements and
    other information we file electronically. Our website address is
    www.hcahealthcare.com. Please note that our website address is
    provided as an inactive textual reference only. We make
    available free of charge, through our website, our annual report
    onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such material is electronically





filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information provided on
    our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not
    incorporated by reference unless such information is
    specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.



Our Code of Conduct is available free of charge upon request to
    our Corporate Secretary, HCA Inc., One Park Plaza, Nashville,
    Tennessee 37203.



Business
    Strategy



We are committed to providing the communities we serve high
    quality, cost-effective health care while complying fully with
    our ethics policy, governmental regulations and guidelines and
    industry standards. As a part of this strategy, management
    focuses on the following principal elements:



•maintain our dedication to the care and improvement of human
    life;•maintain our commitment to ethics and compliance;•leverage our leading local market positions;•expand our presence in key markets;•continue to leverage our scale;•continue to develop physician relationships; and•become the health care employer of choice.



Health
    Care Facilities



We currently own, manage or operate hospitals; freestanding
    surgery centers; diagnostic and imaging centers; radiation and
    oncology therapy centers; comprehensive rehabilitation and
    physical therapy centers; and various other facilities.



At December 31, 2009, we owned and operated 150 general,
    acute care hospitals with 38,349 licensed beds, and an
    additional seven general, acute care hospitals with 2,269
    licensed beds are operated through joint ventures, which are
    accounted for using the equity method. Most of our general,
    acute care hospitals provide medical and surgical services,
    including inpatient care, intensive care, cardiac care,
    diagnostic services and emergency services. The general, acute
    care hospitals also provide outpatient services such as
    outpatient surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory therapy,
    cardiology and physical therapy. Each hospital has an organized
    medical staff and a local board of trustees or governing board,
    made up of members of the local community.



Our hospitals do not typically engage in extensive medical
    research and education programs. However, some of our hospitals
    are affiliated with medical schools and may participate in the
    clinical rotation of medical interns and residents and other
    education programs.



At December 31, 2009, we operated five psychiatric
    hospitals with 490 licensed beds. Our psychiatric hospitals
    provide therapeutic programs including child, adolescent and
    adult psychiatric care, adult and adolescent alcohol and drug
    abuse treatment and counseling.



We also operate outpatient health care facilities which include
    freestanding surgery centers, diagnostic and imaging centers,
    comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation and physical therapy
    centers, outpatient radiation and oncology therapy centers and
    various other facilities. These outpatient services are an
    integral component of our strategy to develop comprehensive
    health care networks in select communities. A majority of our
    surgery centers are operated through partnerships or limited
    liability companies, with majority ownership of each partnership
    or limited liability company typically held by a general partner
    or subsidiary that is an affiliate of HCA.



Certain of our affiliates provide a variety of management
    services to our health care facilities, including patient safety
    programs; ethics and compliance programs; national supply
    contracts; equipment purchasing and leasing contracts;
    accounting, financial and clinical systems; governmental
    reimbursement assistance; construction planning and
    coordination; information technology systems and solutions;
    legal counsel; human resources services; and internal audit
    services.





Sources
    of Revenue



Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the
    medical and ancillary services ordered by physicians and
    provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and
    the charges or payment rates for such services. Charges and
    reimbursement rates for inpatient services vary significantly
    depending on the type of payer, the type of service (e.g.,
    medical/surgical, intensive care or psychiatric) and the
    geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels
    fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our
    control.



We receive payment for patient services from the federal
    government under the Medicare program, state governments under
    their respective Medicaid or similar programs, managed care
    plans, private insurers and directly from patients. The
    approximate percentages of our revenues from such sources were
    as follows:



Year EndedDecember 31,200920082007Medicare23%23%24%Managed Medicare765Medicaid655Managed Medicaid433Managed care and other insurers525354Uninsured8109Total100%100%100%





Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and
    medical insurance benefits to persons age 65 and over, some
    disabled persons, persons with end-stage renal disease and
    persons with Lou Gehrig’s Disease. Medicaid is a
    federal-state program, administered by the states, which
    provides hospital and medical benefits to qualifying individuals
    who are unable to afford health care. All of our general, acute
    care hospitals located in the United States are certified as
    health care services providers for persons covered under
    Medicare and Medicaid programs. Amounts received under Medicare
    and Medicaid programs are generally significantly less than
    established hospital gross charges for the services provided.



Our hospitals generally offer discounts from established charges
    to certain group purchasers of health care services, including
    private insurance companies, employers, HMOs, PPOs and other
    managed care plans. These discount programs generally limit our
    ability to increase revenues in response to increasing costs.
    See Item 1, “Business — Competition.”
    Patients are generally not responsible for the total difference
    between established hospital gross charges and amounts
    reimbursed for such services under Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs or
    PPOs and other managed care plans, but are responsible to the
    extent of any exclusions, deductibles or coinsurance features of
    their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles and
    coinsurance continues to increase. Collection of amounts due
    from individuals is typically more difficult than from
    governmental or third-party payers. We provide discounts to
    uninsured patients who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity
    care under our charity care policy. These discounts are similar
    to those provided to many local managed care plans. In
    implementing the discount policy, we attempt to qualify
    uninsured patients for Medicaid, other federal or state
    assistance or charity care under our charity care policy. If an
    uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the
    uninsured discount is applied.



Medicare



Inpatient
    Acute Care



Under the Medicare program, we receive reimbursement under a
    prospective payment system (“PPS”) for general, acute
    care hospital inpatient services. Under the hospital inpatient
    PPS, fixed payment amounts per inpatient discharge are
    established based on the patient’s assigned Medicare
    severity diagnosis-related group (“MS-DRG”). The
    Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”)
    recently completed a two-year transition to full implementation
    of MS-DRGs to replace the previously used Medicare diagnosis
    related groups in an effort to better recognize severity of
    illness in Medicare payment rates. MS-DRGs classify treatments
    for illnesses according to the estimated intensity of hospital
    resources necessary to furnish care for each principal
    diagnosis. MS-DRG weights





represent the average resources for a given MS-DRG relative to
    the average resources for all MS-DRGs. MS-DRG payments are
    adjusted for area wage differentials. Hospitals, other than
    those defined as “new,” receive PPS reimbursement for
    inpatient capital costs based on MS-DRG weights multiplied by a
    geographically adjusted federal rate. When the cost to treat
    certain patients falls well outside the normal distribution,
    providers typically receive additional “outlier”
    payments.



MS-DRG rates are updated and MS-DRG weights are recalibrated
    using cost relative weights each federal fiscal year (which
    begins October 1). The index used to update the MS-DRG rates
    (the “market basket”) gives consideration to the
    inflation experienced by hospitals and entities outside the
    health care industry in purchasing goods and services. In
    federal fiscal year 2009, the MS-DRG rate was increased by the
    full market basket of 3.6%. For the federal fiscal year 2010,
    CMS has set the MS-DRG rate increase at the full market basket
    of 2.1%. A decrease in payments rates or an increase in rates
    that is below the increase in our costs may adversely affect the
    results of our operations.



In federal fiscal years 2008 and 2009, CMS reduced payments to
    hospitals through a documentation and coding adjustment intended
    to account for changes in payments under the MS-DRG system that
    are not related to changes in patient case mix. In addition, CMS
    has the authority to determine retrospectively whether the
    documentation and coding adjustment levels for federal fiscal
    years 2008 and 2009 were adequate to account for changes in
    payments not related to changes in case mix. CMS has not imposed
    an adjustment for federal fiscal year 2010, but has announced
    its intent to impose reductions to payments in federal fiscal
    years 2011 and 2012 because of what CMS has determined to be an
    inadequate adjustment in federal fiscal year 2008. Such payment
    adjustments may adversely affect the results of our operations.



Further realignments in the MS-DRG system could also reduce the
    payments we receive for certain specialties, including
    cardiology and orthopedics. CMS has focused on payment levels
    for such specialties in recent years in part because of the
    proliferation of specialty hospitals. Changes in the payments
    received for specialty services could have an adverse effect on
    our results of operations.



The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization
    Act of 2003 (“MMA”) provides for rate increases at the
    full market basket if data for patient care quality indicators
    are submitted to the Secretary of the Department of Health and
    Human Services (“HHS”). As required by the Deficit
    Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA 2005”), CMS has expanded,
    through a series of rulemakings, the number of quality measures
    that must be reported to receive a full market basket update.
    CMS currently requires hospitals to report 46 quality measures
    in order to qualify for the full market basket update to the
    inpatient prospective payment system in federal fiscal year
    2011. Failure to submit the required quality indicators will
    result in a two percentage point reduction to the market basket
    update. All of our hospitals paid under Medicare inpatient
    MS-DRG PPS are participating in the quality initiative by
    submitting the requested quality data. While we will endeavor to
    comply with all data submission requirements as additional
    requirements continue to be added, our submissions may not be
    deemed timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market
    basket adjustment for all of our hospitals.



As part of CMS’s goal of transforming Medicare from a
    passive payer to an active purchaser of quality goods and
    services, for discharges occurring after October 1, 2008,
    Medicare no longer assigns an inpatient hospital discharge to a
    higher paying MS-DRG if a selected hospital-acquired condition
    (“HAC”) was not present on admission. In this
    situation, the case is paid as though the secondary diagnosis
    was not present. Currently, there are ten categories of
    conditions on the list of HACs. Furthermore, on January 15,
    2009, CMS announced three National Coverage Determinations
    (“NCDs”) that prohibit Medicare reimbursement for
    erroneous surgical procedures performed on an inpatient or
    outpatient basis. These three erroneous surgical procedures are
    in addition to the HACs designated in CMS regulations. These
    changes are not expected to have a material effect on our
    revenues or cash flows.



Historically, the Medicare program has set aside 5.10% of
    Medicare inpatient payments to pay for outlier cases. CMS
    estimates that outlier payments accounted for 4.8% of total
    operating DRG payments for federal fiscal year 2008. For federal
    fiscal year 2009, CMS established an outlier threshold of
    $20,045, and for federal fiscal year 2010, CMS has increased the
    outlier threshold to $23,140. We do not anticipate the increase
    to the outlier threshold for federal fiscal year 2010 will have
    a material impact on our results of operations.





Outpatient



CMS reimburses hospital outpatient services (and certain
    Medicare Part B services furnished to hospital inpatients
    who have no Part A coverage) on a PPS basis. CMS continues
    to use fee schedules to pay for physical, occupational and
    speech therapies, durable medical equipment, clinical diagnostic
    laboratory services and nonimplantable orthotics and
    prosthetics, freestanding surgery centers services and services
    provided by independent diagnostic testing facilities.



Hospital outpatient services paid under PPS are classified into
    groups called ambulatory payment classifications
    (“APCs”). Services for each APC are similar clinically
    and in terms of the resources they require. A payment rate is
    established for each APC. Depending on the services provided, a
    hospital may be paid for more than one APC for a patient visit.
    The APC payment rates were updated for calendar years 2008 and
    2009 by market baskets of 3.30% and 3.60%, respectively. On
    November 20, 2009, CMS published a final rule that updated
    payment rates for calendar year 2010 by the full market basket
    of 2.1%. CMS continues to require hospitals to submit quality
    data relating to outpatient care to receive the full market
    basket increase under the outpatient PPS in calendar year 2010.
    CMS required hospitals to report data on eleven quality measures
    in calendar year 2009 for the payment determination in calendar
    year 2010 and will continue to require hospitals to report the
    existing eleven quality measures in calendar year 2010 for the
    2011 payment determination. Hospitals that fail to submit such
    data will receive the market basket update minus two percentage
    points for the outpatient PPS.



Rehabilitation



CMS reimburses inpatient rehabilitation facilities
    (“IRFs”) on a PPS basis. Under IRF PPS, patients are
    classified into case mix groups based upon impairment, age,
    comorbidities (additional diseases or disorders from which the
    patient suffers) and functional capability. IRFs are paid a
    predetermined amount per discharge that reflects the
    patient’s case mix group and is adjusted for area wage
    levels, low-income patients, rural areas and high-cost outliers.
    The Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health
    Insurance Program (“SCHIP”) Reauthorization Act of
    2007 eliminated the market basket update for federal fiscal year
    2009. However, CMS issued a final rule setting the market basket
    update at 2.5% for fiscal year 2010. As of December 31,
    2009, we had one rehabilitation hospital, which is operated
    through a joint venture, and 46 hospital rehabilitation units.



On May 7, 2004, CMS published a final rule to change the
    criteria for being classified as an IRF. Pursuant to that final
    rule, 75% of a facility’s inpatients over a given year had
    to have been treated for at least one of 10 specified
    conditions, and a subsequent regulation expanded the number of
    specified conditions to 13. Since then, several statutory and
    regulatory adjustments have been made to the rule, including
    adjustments to the percentage of a facility’s patients that
    must be treated for one of the 13 specified conditions.
    Currently, the compliance threshold is set by statute at 60%.
    Implementation of this 60% threshold has reduced our IRF
    admissions and can be expected to continue to restrict the
    treatment of patients whose medical conditions do not meet any
    of the 13 approved conditions. In addition, effective
    January 1, 2010, IRFs must meet additional coverage
    criteria, including patient selection and care requirements
    relating to pre-admission screenings, post-admission
    evaluations, ongoing coordination of care and involvement of
    rehabilitation physicians. A facility that fails to meet the 60%
    threshold or other criteria to be classified as an IRF will be
    paid under the acute care hospital inpatient or outpatient PPS,
    which generally provide for lower payment amounts.



Psychiatric



Inpatient hospital services furnished in psychiatric hospitals
    and psychiatric units of general, acute care hospitals and
    critical access hospitals are reimbursed under a prospective
    payment system (“IPF PPS”), a per diem payment, with
    adjustments to account for certain patient and facility
    characteristics. IPF PPS contains an “outlier” policy
    for extraordinarily costly cases and an adjustment to a
    facility’s base payment if it maintains a full-service
    emergency department. CMS has established the IPF PPS payment
    rate in a manner intended to be budget neutral and has adopted a
    July 1 update cycle. The rehabilitation, psychiatric and
    long-term care (“RPL”) market basket update is used to
    update the IPF PPS. The annual RPL market basket update for rate
    year 2010 is 2.1%. As of December 31, 2009, we had five
    psychiatric hospitals and 32 hospital psychiatric units.





Ambulatory
    Surgery Centers



CMS reimburses ambulatory surgery centers (“ASCs”)
    using a predetermined fee schedule. Reimbursements for ASC
    overhead costs are limited to no more than the overhead costs
    paid to hospital outpatient departments under the Medicare
    hospital outpatient PPS for the same procedure. Effective
    January 1, 2008, ASC payment groups increased from nine
    clinically disparate payment groups to an extensive list of
    covered surgical procedures among the APCs used under the
    outpatient PPS for these surgical services. Because the new
    payment system has a significant impact on payments for certain
    procedures, CMS has established a four-year transition period
    for implementing the required payment rates. Moreover, if CMS
    determines that a procedure is commonly performed in a
    physician’s office, the ASC reimbursement for that
    procedure is limited to the reimbursement allowable under the
    Medicare Part B Physician Fee Schedule, with limited
    exceptions. In addition, all surgical procedures, other than
    those that pose a significant safety risk or generally require
    an overnight stay, are payable as ASC procedures. As a result,
    more Medicare procedures now performed in hospitals may be moved
    to ASCs, reducing surgical volume in our hospitals. Also, more
    Medicare procedures now performed in ASCs may be moved to
    physicians’ offices. Commercial third-party payers may
    adopt similar policies.



Other



Under PPS, the payment rates are adjusted for the area
    differences in wage levels by a factor (“wage index”)
    reflecting the relative wage level in the geographic area
    compared to the national average wage level. Beginning in
    federal fiscal year 2007, CMS adjusted 100% of the wage index
    factor for occupational mix. The redistributive impact of wage
    index changes, while slightly negative in the aggregate, is not
    anticipated to have a material financial impact for 2010.



As required by the MMA, CMS is implementing contractor reform
    whereby CMS has competitively bid the Medicare fiscal
    intermediary and Medicare carrier functions to 15 Medicare
    Administrative Contractors (“MACs”), which are
    geographically assigned. CMS has awarded contracts to all 15 MAC
    jurisdictions; as a result of filed protests, CMS is taking
    corrective action regarding the contracts in several
    jurisdictions. While chain providers had the option of having
    all hospitals use one home office MAC, HCA chose to use the MACs
    assigned to the geographic areas in which our hospitals are
    located. The individual MAC jurisdictions are in varying phases
    of transition. For the transition periods and for a potentially
    unforeseen period thereafter, all of these changes could impact
    claims processing functions and the resulting cash flow;
    however, we are unable to predict the impact at this time.



The MMA established the Recovery Audit Contractor
    (“RAC”) three-year demonstration program to conduct
    post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in
    the fee-for-service Medicare program. The Tax Relief and Health
    Care Act of 2006 made the RAC program permanent and mandated its
    nationwide expansion by 2010. CMS has awarded contracts to four
    RACs that are implementing the permanent RAC program on a
    nationwide basis.



Managed
    Medicare



Managed Medicare plans relate to situations where a private
    company contracts with CMS to provide members with Medicare
    Part A, Part B and Part D benefits. Managed
    Medicare plans can be structured as HMOs, PPOs or private
    fee-for-service plans. The Medicare program allows beneficiaries
    to choose enrollment in certain managed Medicare plans. In 2003,
    MMA increased reimbursement to managed Medicare plans and
    expanded Medicare beneficiaries’ healthcare options. Since
    2003, the number of beneficiaries choosing to receive their
    Medicare benefits through such plans has increased. However, the
    Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008
    imposed new restrictions and implemented focused cuts to certain
    managed Medicare plans. In addition, some health care reform
    proposals would reduce payments to managed Medicare plans. In
    light of the current economic downturn and the political
    climate, managed Medicare plans may experience reduced premium
    payments, which may lead to decreased enrollment in such plans.



Medicaid



Medicaid programs are funded jointly by the federal government
    and the states and are administered by states under approved
    plans. Most state Medicaid program payments are made under a PPS
    or are based on negotiated





payment levels with individual hospitals. Medicaid reimbursement
    is often less than a hospital’s cost of services. The
    federal government and many states are currently considering
    altering the level of Medicaid funding (including upper payment
    limits) or program eligibility that could adversely affect
    future levels of Medicaid reimbursement received by our
    hospitals. As permitted by law, certain states in which we
    operate have adopted broad-based provider taxes to fund their
    Medicaid programs.



Since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since
    the Medicaid program is often the state’s largest program,
    states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation
    designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. The current
    economic downturn has increased the budgetary pressures on most
    states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted and likely
    will continue to result in decreased spending for Medicaid
    programs in many states. Further, many states have also adopted,
    or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and
    program eligibility, enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care
    programsand/orimpose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand
    the states’ Medicaid systems.



Through DRA 2005, Congress has expanded the federal
    government’s involvement in fighting fraud, waste and abuse
    in the Medicaid program by creating the Medicaid Integrity
    Program. Among other things, this legislation requires CMS to
    employ private contractors, referred to as Medicaid Integrity
    Contractors (“MICs”), to perform post-payment audits
    of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. MICs are assigned
    to five geographic regions and have commenced audits in several
    of the states assigned to those regions. Throughout 2010, MIC
    audits will continue to expand to other states. In addition to
    MICs, several other contractors, including the state Medicaid
    agencies, have increased their review activities. Future
    legislation or other changes in the administration or
    interpretation of government health programs could have a
    material, adverse effect on our financial position and results
    of operations.



Managed
    Medicaid



Managed Medicaid programs enable states to contract with one or
    more entities for patient enrollment, care management and claims
    adjudication. The states usually do not relinquish program
    responsibilities for financing, eligibility criteria and core
    benefit plan design. We generally contract directly with one of
    the designated entities, usually a managed care organization.
    The provisions of these programs are state-specific.



Enrollment in managed Medicaid plans has increased in recent
    years, as state governments seek to control the cost of Medicaid
    programs. However, general economic conditions in the states in
    which we operate may require reductions in premium payments to
    these plans and may reduce enrollment in these plans.



TRICARE



TRICARE is the Department of Defense’s health care program
    for members of the armed forces. On May 1, 2009, the
    Department of Defense implemented a prospective payment system
    for hospital outpatient services furnished to TRICARE
    beneficiaries similar to that utilized for services furnished to
    Medicare beneficiaries. Because the Medicare outpatient
    prospective payment system APC rates have historically been
    below TRICARE rates, the adoption of this payment methodology
    for TRICARE beneficiaries reduces our reimbursement; however,
    TRICARE outpatient services do not represent a significant
    portion of our patient volumes.



Annual
    Cost Reports



All hospitals participating in the Medicare, Medicaid and
    TRICARE programs, whether paid on a reasonable cost basis or
    under a PPS, are required to meet certain financial reporting
    requirements. Federal and, where applicable, state regulations
    require the submission of annual cost reports covering the
    revenues, costs and expenses associated with the services
    provided by each hospital to Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid
    recipients.



Annual cost reports required under the Medicare and Medicaid
    programs are subject to routine audits, which may result in
    adjustments to the amounts ultimately determined to be due to us
    under these reimbursement programs. These audits often require
    several years to reach the final determination of amounts due to
    or from us under these programs. Providers also have rights of
    appeal, and it is common to contest issues raised in audits of
    cost reports.





Managed
    Care and Other Discounted Plans



Most of our hospitals offer discounts from established charges
    to certain large group purchasers of health care services,
    including managed care plans and private insurance companies.
    Admissions reimbursed by commercial managed care and other
    insurers were 34%, 35% and 37% of our total admissions for the
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Managed care contracts are typically negotiated for terms
    between one and three years. While we generally received annual
    average yield increases of 6% to 7% from managed care payers
    during 2009, there can be no assurance that we will continue to
    receive increases in the future.



Uninsured
    and Self-Pay Patients



A high percentage of our uninsured patients are initially
    admitted through our emergency rooms. For the year ended
    December 31, 2009, approximately 81% of our admissions of
    uninsured patients occurred through our emergency rooms. The
    Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
    (“EMTALA”) requires any hospital that participates in
    the Medicare program to conduct an appropriate medical screening
    examination of every person who presents to the hospital’s
    emergency room for treatment and, if the individual is suffering
    from an emergency medical condition, to either stabilize that
    condition or make an appropriate transfer of the individual to a
    facility that can handle the condition. The obligation to screen
    and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of
    an individual’s ability to pay for treatment.



We are taking proactive measures to reduce our provision for
    doubtful accounts by, among other things:



•screening all patients, including the uninsured, through our
    emergency screening protocol, to determine the appropriate care
    setting in light of their condition, while reducing the
    potential for bad debt; and•increasing up-front collections from patients subject to co-pay
    and deductible requirements and uninsured patients.



Hospital
    Utilization



We believe the most important factors relating to the overall
    utilization of a hospital are the quality and market position of
    the hospital and the number and quality of physicians and other
    health care professionals providing patient care within the
    facility. Generally, we believe the ability of a hospital to be
    a market leader is determined by its breadth of services, level
    of technology, emphasis on quality of care and convenience for
    patients and physicians. Other factors that impact utilization
    include the growth in local population, local economic
    conditions and market penetration of managed care programs.



The following table sets forth certain operating statistics for
    our health care facilities. Health care facility operations are
    subject to certain seasonal fluctuations, including decreases in
    patient utilization during holiday





periods and increases in the cold weather months. The data set
    forth in this table includes only those facilities that are
    consolidated for financial reporting purposes.



Years Ended December 31,20092008200720062005Number of hospitals at end of period(a)155158161166175Number of freestanding outpatient surgery centers at end of
    period(b)9797999887Number of licensed beds at end of period(c)38,83938,50438,40539,35441,265Weighted average licensed beds(d)38,82538,42239,06540,65341,902Admissions(e)1,556,5001,541,8001,552,7001,610,1001,647,800Equivalent admissions(f)2,439,0002,363,6002,352,4002,416,7002,476,600Average length of stay (days)(g)4.84.94.94.94.9Average daily census(h)20,65020,79521,04921,68822,225Occupancy rate(i)53%54%54%53%53%Emergency room visits(j)5,593,5005,246,4005,116,1005,213,5005,415,200Outpatient surgeries(k)794,600797,400804,900820,900836,600Inpatient surgeries(l)494,500493,100516,500533,100541,400











(a)Excludes eight facilities in 2009, 2008 and 2007 and seven
    facilities in 2006 and 2005 that are not consolidated (accounted
    for using the equity method) for financial reporting purposes.



(b)Excludes eight facilities in 2009 and 2008, nine facilities in
    2007 and 2006 and seven facilities in 2005 that are not
    consolidated (accounted for using the equity method) for
    financial reporting purposes.



(c)Licensed beds are those beds for which a facility has been
    granted approval to operate from the applicable state licensing
    agency.



(d)Weighted average licensed beds represents the average number of
    licensed beds, weighted based on periods owned.



(e)Represents the total number of patients admitted to our
    hospitals and is used by management and certain investors as a
    general measure of inpatient volume.



(f)Equivalent admissions are used by management and certain
    investors as a general measure of combined inpatient and
    outpatient volume. Equivalent admissions are computed by
    multiplying admissions (inpatient volume) by the sum of gross
    inpatient revenue and gross outpatient revenue and then dividing
    the resulting amount by gross inpatient revenue. The equivalent
    admissions computation “equates” outpatient revenue to
    the volume measure (admissions) used to measure inpatient
    volume, resulting in a general measure of combined inpatient and
    outpatient volume.



(g)Represents the average number of days admitted patients stay in
    our hospitals.



(h)Represents the average number of patients in our hospital beds
    each day.



(i)Represents the percentage of hospital licensed beds occupied by
    patients. Both average daily census and occupancy rate provide
    measures of the utilization of inpatient rooms.



(j)Represents the number of patients treated in our emergency rooms.



(k)Represents the number of surgeries performed on patients who
    were not admitted to our hospitals. Pain management and
    endoscopy procedures are not included in outpatient surgeries.



(l)Represents the number of surgeries performed on patients who
    have been admitted to our hospitals. Pain management and
    endoscopy procedures are not included in inpatient surgeries.



Competition



Generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by
    most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered
    by our hospitals. Additionally, in recent years the number of
    freestanding surgery centers and diagnostic centers (including
    facilities owned by physicians) in the geographic areas in which
    we operate has





increased significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals
    operate in a highly competitive environment. In some cases,
    competing hospitals are more established than our hospitals.
    Some competing hospitals are owned by tax-supported government
    agencies and many others are owned by not-for-profit entities
    that may be supported by endowments, charitable contributionsand/ortax
    revenues and are exempt from sales, property and income taxes.
    Such exemptions and support are not available to our hospitals.
    In certain localities there are large teaching hospitals that
    provide highly specialized facilities, equipment and services
    which may not be available at most of our hospitals. We are
    facing increasing competition from physician-owned specialty
    hospitals and both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery
    centers for market share in high margin services.



Psychiatric hospitals frequently attract patients from areas
    outside their immediate locale and, therefore, our psychiatric
    hospitals compete with both local and regional hospitals,
    including the psychiatric units of general, acute care hospitals.



Our strategies are designed to ensure our hospitals are
    competitive. We believe our hospitals compete within local
    communities on the basis of many factors, including the quality
    of care, ability to attract and retain quality physicians,
    skilled clinical personnel and other health care professionals,
    location, breadth of services, technology offered and prices
    charged. We have increased our focus on operating outpatient
    services with improved accessibility and more convenient service
    for patients, and increased predictability and efficiency for
    physicians.



Two of the most significant factors to the competitive position
    of a hospital are the number and quality of physicians
    affiliated with the hospital. Although physicians may at any
    time terminate their affiliation with a hospital we operate, our
    hospitals seek to retain physicians with varied specialties on
    the hospitals’ medical staffs and to attract other
    qualified physicians. We believe physicians refer patients to a
    hospital on the basis of the quality and scope of services it
    renders to patients and physicians, the quality of physicians on
    the medical staff, the location of the hospital and the quality
    of the hospital’s facilities, equipment and employees.
    Accordingly, we strive to maintain and provide quality
    facilities, equipment, employees and services for physicians and
    patients.





State certificate of need (“CON”) laws, which place
    limitations on a hospital’s ability to expand hospital
    services and facilities, make capital expenditures and otherwise
    make changes in operations, may also have the effect of
    restricting competition. We currently operate health care
    facilities in a number of states with CON laws. Before issuing a
    CON, these states consider the need for additional or expanded
    health care facilities or services. In those states which have
    no CON laws or which set relatively high levels of expenditures
    before they become reviewable by state authorities, competition
    in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is
    more prevalent. See Item 1, “Business —
    Regulation and Other Factors.”



We and the health care industry as a whole face the challenge of
    continuing to provide quality patient care while dealing with
    rising costs and strong competition for patients. Changes in
    medical technology, existing and future legislation, regulations
    and interpretations and managed care contracting for provider
    services by private and government payers remain ongoing
    challenges.





Admissions and average lengths of stay continue to be negatively
    affected by payer-required pre-admission authorization,
    utilization review and payer pressure to maximize outpatient and
    alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill
    patients. Increased competition, admission constraints and payer
    pressures are expected to continue. To meet these challenges, we
    intend to expand our facilities or acquire or construct new
    facilities where appropriate, to better enable the provision of
    a comprehensive array of outpatient services, offer market
    competitive pricing to private payer groups, upgrade facilities
    and equipment, and offer new or expanded programs and services.



Regulation
    and Other Factors



Licensure,
    Certification and Accreditation





Certificates
    of Need



In some states where we operate hospitals and other health care
    facilities, the construction or expansion of health care
    facilities, the acquisition of existing facilities, the transfer
    or change of ownership and the addition of new beds or services
    may be subject to review by and prior approval of state
    regulatory agencies under a CON program. Such laws generally
    require the reviewing state agency to determine the public need
    for additional or expanded health care facilities and services.
    Failure to obtain necessary state approval can result in the
    inability to expand facilities, complete an acquisition or
    change ownership.



State
    Rate Review



Some states have adopted legislation mandating rate or budget
    review for hospitals or have adopted taxes on hospital revenues,
    assessments or licensure fees to fund indigent health care
    within the state. In the aggregate, indigent tax provisions have
    not materially, adversely affected our results of operations.
    Although we do not currently operate facilities in states that
    mandate rate or budget reviews, we cannot predict whether we
    will operate in such states in the future, or whether the states
    in which we currently operate may adopt legislation mandating
    such reviews.



Federal
    Health Care Program Regulations



Participation in any federal health care program, including the
    Medicare and Medicaid programs, is heavily regulated by statute
    and regulation. If a hospital fails to substantially comply with
    the numerous conditions of participation in the Medicare and
    Medicaid programs or performs certain prohibited acts, the
    hospital’s participation in the federal health care
    programs may be terminated, or civil or criminal penalties may
    be imposed under certain provisions of the Social Security Act,
    or both.





Anti-kickback
    Statute



A section of the Social Security Act known as the
    “Anti-kickback Statute” prohibits providers and others
    from directly or indirectly soliciting, receiving, offering or
    paying any remuneration with the intent of generating referrals
    or orders for services or items covered by a federal health care
    program. Courts have interpreted this statute broadly and held
    that there is a violation of the Anti-kickback Statute if just
    one purpose of the remuneration is to generate referrals, even
    if there are other lawful purposes. Violations of the
    Anti-kickback Statute may be punished by a criminal fine of up
    to $25,000 for each violation or imprisonment, civil money
    penalties of up to $50,000 per violation and damages of up to
    three times the total amount of the remunerationand/orexclusion from participation in federal health care programs,
    including Medicare and Medicaid.





The OIG also issues Special Advisory Bulletins as a means of
    providing guidance to health care providers. These bulletins,
    along with the Special Fraud Alerts, have focused on certain
    arrangements that could be subject to heightened scrutiny by
    government enforcement authorities, including:
    (a) contractual joint venture arrangements and other joint
    venture arrangements between those in a position to refer
    business, such as physicians, and those providing items or
    services for which Medicare or Medicaid pays, and
    (b) certain “gainsharing” arrangements, i.e., the
    practice of giving physicians a share of any reduction in a
    hospital’s costs for patient care attributable in part to
    the physician’s efforts.



In addition to issuing Special Fraud Alerts and Special Advisory
    Bulletins, the OIG issues compliance program guidance for
    certain types of health care providers. The OIG guidance
    identifies a number of risk areas under federal fraud and abuse
    statutes and regulations. These areas of risk include
    compensation arrangements with physicians, recruitment
    arrangements with physicians and joint venture relationships
    with physicians.



As authorized by Congress, the OIG has published safe harbor
    regulations that outline categories of activities deemed
    protected from prosecution under the Anti-kickback Statute.
    Currently, there are statutory exceptions and safe harbors for
    various activities, including the following: certain investment
    interests, space rental, equipment rental, practitioner
    recruitment, personnel services and management contracts, sale
    of practice, referral services, warranties, discounts,
    employees, group purchasing organizations, waiver of beneficiary
    coinsurance and deductible amounts, managed care arrangements,
    obstetrical malpractice insurance subsidies, investments in
    group practices, freestanding surgery centers, ambulance
    replenishing, and referral agreements for specialty services.



The fact that conduct or a business arrangement does not fall
    within a safe harbor, or it is identified in a Special Fraud
    Alert or Advisory Bulletin or as a risk area in the Supplemental
    Compliance Guidelines for Hospitals, does





not necessarily render the conduct or business arrangement
    illegal under the Anti-kickback Statute. However, such conduct
    and business arrangements may lead to increased scrutiny by
    government enforcement authorities.



We have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and
    others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to
    our hospitals and other health care facilities, including
    employment contracts, leases, medical director agreements and
    professional service agreements. We also have similar
    relationships with physicians and facilities to which patients
    are referred from our facilities. In addition, we provide
    financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to
    recruit physicians into the communities served by our hospitals.
    While we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors,
    certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures
    and financial relationships with physicians and other referral
    sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do
    not qualify for safe harbor protection.



Although we believe our arrangements with physicians and other
    referral sources have been structured to comply with current law
    and available interpretations, there can be no assurance
    regulatory authorities enforcing these laws will determine these
    financial arrangements comply with the Anti-kickback Statute or
    other applicable laws. An adverse determination could subject us
    to liabilities under the Social Security Act, including criminal
    penalties, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from
    participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other federal health care
    programs.



Stark
    Law





Through a series of rulemakings, CMS has issued final
    regulations implementing the Stark Law. Additional changes to
    these regulations, which became effective October 1, 2009,
    further restrict the types of arrangements facilities and
    physicians may enter, including additional restrictions on
    certain leases, percentage compensation arrangements, and
    agreements under which a hospital purchases services “under
    arrangements.” While these regulations were intended to
    clarify the requirements of the exceptions to the Stark Law, it
    is unclear how the government will interpret many of these
    exceptions for enforcement purposes. CMS has indicated it is
    considering additional changes to the Stark Law regulations.
    Because many of these laws and their implementing regulations
    are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of
    significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws
    and regulations. We attempt to structure our relationships to
    meet an exception to the Stark Law, but the regulations
    implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we
    cannot assure that every relationship complies fully with the
    Stark Law.



On September 14, 2007, CMS published an information
    collection request called the Disclosure of Financial Relations
    Report (“DFRR”). The DFRR and its supporting
    documentation are currently under review by the Office of
    Management and Budget, and it is unclear when, or if, it will be
    finalized. CMS has indicated that responding hospitals will have
    a limited amount of time to compile a significant amount of
    information relating to their financial relationships with
    physicians. A hospital may be subject to substantial penalties
    if it is unable to assemble and report this information within
    the required time frame or if any applicable government agency
    determines that





the submission is inaccurate or incomplete. Depending on the
    final format of the DFRR, responding hospitals may be subject to
    substantial penalties as a result of enforcement actions brought
    by government agencies and whistleblowers acting pursuant to the
    federal False Claims Act (“FCA”) and similar state
    laws, based on such allegations as failure to respond within
    required deadlines, that the response is inaccurate or contains
    incomplete information, or that the response indicates a
    potential violation of the Stark Law or other requirements.



Similar
    State Laws



Many states in which we operate also have laws similar to the
    Anti-kickback Statute that prohibit payments to physicians for
    patient referrals and laws similar to the Stark Law that
    prohibit certain self-referrals. The scope of these state laws
    is broad, since they can often apply regardless of the source of
    payment for care, and little precedent exists for their
    interpretation or enforcement. These statutes typically provide
    for criminal and civil penalties, as well as loss of facility
    licensure.



Other
    Fraud and Abuse Provisions





Some of these provisions, including the federal Civil Monetary
    Penalty Law, require a lower burden of proof than other fraud
    and abuse laws, including the Anti-kickback Statute. Civil
    monetary penalties that may be imposed under the federal Civil
    Monetary Penalty Law range from $10,000 to $50,000 per act, and
    in some cases may result in penalties of up to three times the
    remuneration offered, paid, solicited or received. In addition,
    a violator may be subject to exclusion from federal and state
    health care programs. Federal and state governments increasingly
    use the federal Civil Monetary Penalty Law, especially where
    they believe they cannot meet the higher burden of proof
    requirements under the Anti-kickback Statute. Further,
    individuals can receive up to $1,000 for providing information
    on Medicare fraud and abuse that leads to the recovery of at
    least $100 of Medicare funds under the Medicare Integrity
    Program.



The
    Federal False Claims Act and Similar State Laws



Thequi tam, or whistleblower, provisions of the FCA
    allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the
    government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal
    government. Further, the government may use the FCA to prosecute
    Medicare and other government program fraud in areas such as
    coding errors, billing for services not provided and submitting
    false cost reports. When a private party brings aqui tamaction under the FCA, the defendant is not made aware of the
    lawsuit until the government commences its own investigation or
    makes a determination whether it will intervene. When a
    defendant is determined by a court of law to be liable under the
    FCA, the defendant may be required to pay three times the actual
    damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil
    penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false
    claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the
    FCA. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a
    false claim for





reimbursement to the federal government. The FCA defines the
    term “knowingly” broadly. Though simple negligence
    will not give rise to liability under the FCA, submitting a
    claim with reckless disregard to its truth or falsity
    constitutes a “knowing” submission under the FCA and,
    therefore, will qualify for liability. On May 20, 2009, the
    Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 expanded the scope of
    the FCA by, among other things, creating liability for knowingly
    and improperly avoiding repayment of an overpayment received
    from the government and broadening protections for
    whistleblowers.



In some cases, whistleblowers and the federal government have
    taken the position, and some courts have held, that providers
    who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the
    Anti-kickback Statute and the Stark Law, have thereby submitted
    false claims under the FCA. Every entity that receives at least
    $5 million annually in Medicaid payments must have written
    policies for all employees, contractors or agents, providing
    detailed information about false claims, false statements and
    whistleblower protections under certain federal laws, including
    the FCA, and similar state laws. In addition, federal law
    provides an incentive to states to enact false claims laws
    comparable to the FCA. A number of states in which we operate
    have adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their
    own whistleblower provisions under which a private party may
    file a civil lawsuit in state court. We have adopted and
    distributed policies pertaining to the FCA and relevant state
    laws.



HIPAA
    Administrative Simplification and Privacy and Security
    Requirements



The Administrative Simplification Provisions of HIPAA require
    the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for
    certain health care claims and payment transactions submitted or
    received electronically. These provisions are intended to
    encourage electronic commerce in the health care industry. HHS
    has issued regulations implementing the HIPAA Administrative
    Simplification Provisions and compliance with these regulations
    is mandatory for our facilities. In addition, HIPAA requires
    that each provider use a National Provider Identifier. In
    January 2009, CMS published a final rule making changes to the
    formats used for certain electronic transactions and requiring
    the use of updated standard code sets for certain diagnoses and
    procedures known as ICD-10 code sets. While use of the ICD-10
    code sets is not mandatory until October 1, 2013, we will
    be modifying our payment systems and processes to prepare for
    the implementation. Implementing the ICD-10 code sets will
    require significant administrative changes, but we believe that
    the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is
    not expected to have a material, adverse effect on our business,
    financial position or results of operations.



The privacy and security regulations promulgated pursuant to
    HIPAA extensively regulate the use and disclosure of
    individually identifiable health information and require covered
    entities, including health plans and most health care providers,
    to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards
    to protect the security of such information. The American
    Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), which
    was signed into law on February 17, 2009, broadened the
    scope of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations. In
    addition, ARRA extends the application of certain provisions of
    the security and privacy regulations to business associates
    (entities that handle identifiable health information on behalf
    of covered entities) and subjects business associates to civil
    and criminal penalties for violation of the regulations. We
    enforce a HIPAA compliance plan, which we believe complies with
    HIPAA privacy and security requirements and under which a HIPAA
    compliance group monitors our compliance. The privacy
    regulations and security regulations have and will continue to
    impose significant costs on our facilities in order to comply
    with these standards.



As required by ARRA, HHS published an interim final rule on
    August 24, 2009, that requires covered entities to report
    breaches of unsecured protected health information to affected
    individuals without unreasonable delay but not to exceed
    60 days of discovery of the breach by a covered entity or
    its agents. Notification must also be made to HHS and, in
    certain situations involving large breaches, to the media.
    Various state laws and regulations may also require us to notify
    affected individuals in the event of a data breach involving
    individually identifiable information.



Violations of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations may
    result in civil and criminal penalties, and ARRA has
    strengthened the enforcement provisions of HIPAA, which may
    result in increased enforcement activity. Under ARRA, HHS is
    required to conduct periodic compliance audits of covered
    entities and their business associates. ARRA broadens the
    applicability of the criminal penalty provisions to employees of
    covered entities and requires HHS to impose penalties for
    violations resulting from willful neglect. ARRA also
    significantly increases the amount of the civil penalties, with
    penalties of up to $50,000 per violation for a maximum civil
    penalty of





$1,500,000 in a calendar year for violations of the same
    requirement. In addition, ARRA authorizes state attorneys
    general to bring civil actions seeking either injunction or
    damages in response to violations of HIPAA privacy and security
    regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. Our
    facilities also remain subject to any federal or state
    privacy-related laws that are more restrictive than the privacy
    regulations issued under HIPAA. These laws vary and could impose
    additional penalties.



There are numerous other laws and legislative and regulatory
    initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing privacy
    and security concerns. For example, the Federal Trade Commission
    issued a final rule in October 2007 requiring financial
    institutions and creditors, which may include health providers
    and health plans, to implement written identity theft prevention
    programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in
    connection with certain accounts. The Federal Trade Commission
    has delayed enforcement of this rule until June 1, 2010.



EMTALA



All of our hospitals in the United States are subject to EMTALA.
    This federal law requires any hospital participating in the
    Medicare program to conduct an appropriate medical screening
    examination of every individual who presents to the
    hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the
    individual is suffering from an emergency medical condition, to
    either stabilize the condition or make an appropriate transfer
    of the individual to a facility able to handle the condition.
    The obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical
    conditions exists regardless of an individual’s ability to
    pay for treatment. There are severe penalties under EMTALA if a
    hospital fails to screen or appropriately stabilize or transfer
    an individual or if the hospital delays appropriate treatment in
    order to first inquire about the individual’s ability to
    pay. Penalties for violations of EMTALA include civil monetary
    penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare
    program. In addition, an injured individual, the
    individual’s family or a medical facility that suffers a
    financial loss as a direct result of a hospital’s violation
    of the law can bring a civil suit against the hospital.



The government broadly interprets EMTALA to cover situations in
    which individuals do not actually present to a hospital’s
    emergency room, but present for emergency examination or
    treatment to the hospital’s campus, generally, or to a
    hospital-based clinic that treats emergency medical conditions
    or are transported in a hospital-owned ambulance, subject to
    certain exceptions. At least one court has interpreted the law
    also to apply to a hospital that has been notified of a
    patient’s pending arrival in a non-hospital owned
    ambulance. EMTALA does not generally apply to individuals
    admitted for inpatient services. The government has expressed
    its intent to investigate and enforce EMTALA violations actively
    in the future. We believe our hospitals operate in substantial
    compliance with EMTALA.



Corporate
    Practice of Medicine/Fee Splitting



Some of the states in which we operate have laws prohibiting
    corporations and other entities from employing physicians,
    practicing medicine for a profit and making certain direct and
    indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between health
    care providers designed to induce or encourage the referral of
    patients to, or the recommendation of, particular providers for
    medical products and services. Possible sanctions for violation
    of these restrictions include loss of license and civil and
    criminal penalties. In addition, agreements between the
    corporation and the physician may be considered void and
    unenforceable. These statutes vary from state to state, are
    often vague and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or
    regulatory agencies.



Health
    Care Industry Investigations



Significant media and public attention has focused in recent
    years on the hospital industry. This media and public attention,
    changes in government personnel or other factors may lead to
    increased scrutiny of the health care industry. While we are
    currently not aware of any material investigations of the
    Company under federal or state health care laws or regulations,
    it is possible that governmental entities could initiate
    investigations or litigation in the future at facilities we
    operate and that such matters could result in significant
    penalties, as well as adverse





publicity. It is also possible that our executives and managers
    could be included in governmental investigations or litigation
    or named as defendants in private litigation.



Our substantial Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental
    billings result in heightened scrutiny of our operations. We
    continue to monitor all aspects of our business and have
    developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is
    designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and
    industry standards. Because the law in this area is complex and
    constantly evolving, governmental investigations or litigation
    may result in interpretations that are inconsistent with our or
    industry practices.



In public statements surrounding current investigations,
    governmental authorities have taken positions on a number of
    issues, including some for which little official interpretation
    previously has been available, that appear to be inconsistent
    with practices that have been common within the industry and
    that previously have not been challenged in this manner. In some
    instances, government investigations that have in the past been
    conducted under the civil provisions of federal law may now be
    conducted as criminal investigations.



Both federal and state government agencies have increased their
    focus on and coordination of civil and criminal enforcement
    efforts in the health care area. The OIG and the Department of
    Justice have, from time to time, established national
    enforcement initiatives, targeting all hospital providers that
    focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of
    abuse. In addition, governmental agencies and their agents, such
    as the Medicare Administrative Contractors, fiscal
    intermediaries and carriers, may conduct audits of our health
    care operations. Private payers may conduct similar post-payment
    audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring.



In addition to national enforcement initiatives, federal and
    state investigations have addressed a wide variety of routine
    health care operations such as: cost reporting and billing
    practices, including for Medicare outliers; financial
    arrangements with referral sources; physician recruitment
    activities; physician joint ventures; and hospital charges and
    collection practices for self-pay patients. We engage in many of
    these routine health care operations and other activities that
    could be the subject of governmental investigations or
    inquiries. For example, we have significant Medicare and
    Medicaid billings, numerous financial arrangements with
    physicians who are referral sources to our hospitals, and joint
    venture arrangements involving physician investors. Certain of
    our individual facilities have received, and other facilities
    may receive, government inquiries from federal and state
    agencies. Any additional investigations of the Company, our
    executives or managers could result in significant liabilities
    or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity.



qui tam

and/or

qui tam



Health
    Care Reform



Health care is one of the largest industries in the United
    States and continues to attract much legislative interest and
    public attention. National health care reform is a focus at the
    federal level. In the final months of 2009, both houses of the
    U.S. Congress passed separate bills intended to reform the
    health care system through, among other things, decreasing the
    number of uninsured individuals and reducing health care costs.
    While neither of these bills has yet become law, such laws or
    similar proposals have been, and we anticipate will continue to
    be, a focus at the federal level. Several states are also
    considering health care reform measures. This focus on health
    care





reform may increase the likelihood of significant changes
    affecting the health care industry. In addition, possible future
    changes in the Medicare, Medicaid, and other state programs,
    including Medicaid supplemental payments pursuant to upper
    payment limit programs, may impact reimbursements to health care
    providers and insurers. Many states have enacted, or are
    considering enacting, measures designed to reduce their Medicaid
    expenditures and change private health care insurance. States
    have also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to
    reduce coverage and program eligibility, enroll Medicaid
    recipients in managed care programsand/orimpose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand
    states’ Medicaid systems. Some states, including the states
    in which we operate, have applied for and have been granted
    federal waivers from current Medicaid regulations to allow them
    to serve some or all of their Medicaid participants through
    managed care providers. Hospital operating margins have been,
    and may continue to be, under significant pressure because of
    deterioration in pricing flexibility and payer mix, and growth
    in operating expenses in excess of the increase in PPS payments
    under the Medicare program.



General
    Economic and Demographic Factors



The United States economy has weakened significantly. Depressed
    consumer spending and higher unemployment rates continue to
    pressure many industries. During economic downturns,
    governmental entities often experience budget deficits as a
    result of increased costs and lower than expected tax
    collections. These budget deficits may force federal, state and
    local government entities to decrease spending for health and
    human service programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and similar
    programs, which represent significant payer sources for our
    hospitals. Other risks we face from general economic weakness
    include potential declines in the population covered under
    managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel
    elective and non-emergency health care procedures, potential
    increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and
    further difficulties in our collecting patient co-payment and
    deductible receivables.



The health care industry is impacted by the overall United
    States financial pressures. The federal deficit, the growing
    magnitude of Medicare expenditures and the aging of the United
    States population will continue to place pressure on federal
    health care programs.



Compliance
    Program and Corporate Integrity Agreement



We maintain a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that
    is designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and
    industry standards. The program is intended to monitor and raise
    awareness of various regulatory issues among employees and to
    emphasize the importance of complying with governmental laws and
    regulations. As part of the ethics and compliance program, we
    provide annual ethics and compliance training to our employees
    and encourage all employees to report any violations to their
    supervisor, an ethics and compliance officer or a toll-free
    telephone ethics line.



and/or

and/or





Antitrust
    Laws



The federal government and most states have enacted antitrust
    laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be
    anti-competitive. These laws prohibit price fixing, concerted
    refusal to deal, market monopolization, price discrimination,
    tying arrangements, acquisitions of competitors and other
    practices that have, or may have, an adverse effect on
    competition. Violations of federal or state antitrust laws can
    result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil
    penalties. Antitrust enforcement in the health care industry is
    currently a priority of the Federal Trade Commission. We believe
    we are in compliance with such federal and state laws, but
    future review of our practices by courts or regulatory
    authorities could result in a determination that could adversely
    affect our operations.



Environmental
    Matters



We are subject to various federal, state and local statutes and
    ordinances regulating the discharge of materials into the
    environment. We do not believe that we will be required to
    expend any material amounts in order to comply with these laws
    and regulations.



Insurance



As is typical in the health care industry, we are subject to
    claims and legal actions by patients in the ordinary course of
    business. Subject to a $5 million per occurrence
    self-insured retention, our facilities are insured by our
    wholly-owned insurance subsidiary for losses up to
    $50 million per occurrence. The insurance subsidiary has
    obtained reinsurance for professional liability risks generally
    above a retention level of $15 million per occurrence. We
    also maintain professional liability insurance with unrelated
    commercial carriers for losses in excess of amounts insured by
    our insurance subsidiary.



We purchase, from unrelated insurance companies, coverage for
    directors and officers liability and property loss in amounts we
    believe are adequate. The directors and officers liability
    coverage includes a $25 million corporate deductible for
    the period prior to the Recapitalization and a $1 million
    corporate deductible subsequent to the Recapitalization. In
    addition, we will continue to purchase coverage for our
    directors and officers on an ongoing basis. The property
    coverage includes varying deductibles depending on the cause of
    the property damage. These deductibles range from $500,000 per
    claim up to 5% of the affected property values for certain flood
    and wind and earthquake related incidents.



Employees
    and Medical Staffs



At December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    190,000 employees, including approximately
    49,000 part-time employees. References herein to
    “employees” refer to employees of our affiliates. We
    are subject to various state and federal laws that regulate
    wages, hours, benefits and other terms and conditions relating
    to employment. At December 31, 2009, employees at 20 of our
    hospitals are represented by various labor unions. It is
    possible additional hospitals may unionize in the future. We
    consider our employee relations to be good and have not
    experienced work stoppages that have materially, adversely
    affected our business or results of operations. Our hospitals,
    like most hospitals, have experienced labor costs rising faster
    than the general inflation rate. In some markets, nurse and
    medical support personnel availability has become a significant
    operating issue to health care providers. To address this
    challenge, we have implemented several initiatives to improve
    retention, recruiting, compensation programs and productivity.



Our hospitals are staffed by licensed physicians, who generally
    are not employees of our hospitals. However, some physicians
    provide services in our hospitals under contracts, which
    generally describe a term of service, provide and establish the
    duties and obligations of such physicians, require the
    maintenance of certain performance criteria and fix compensation
    for such services. Any licensed physician may apply to be
    accepted to the medical staff of any of our hospitals, but the
    hospital’s medical staff and the appropriate governing
    board of the hospital, in accordance with established
    credentialing criteria, must approve acceptance to the staff.
    Members of the medical staffs of our hospitals often also serve
    on the medical staffs of other hospitals and may terminate their
    affiliation with one of our hospitals at any time.





We may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to
    recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or
    to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. As a
    result, our labor costs could increase. We also depend on the
    available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in
    each of the markets in which we operate. Certain proposed
    changes in federal labor laws, including the Employee Free
    Choice Act, could increase the likelihood of employee
    unionization attempts. To the extent a significant portion of
    our employee base unionizes, our costs could increase
    materially. In addition, the states in which we operate could
    adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory
    nurse-staffing ratios already in place. State-mandated
    nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs,
    and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to
    limit patient admissions in order to meet the required ratios.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



As of February 28, 2010, our executive officers were as
    follows:



NameAgePosition(s)Richard M. Bracken57Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerR. Milton Johnson53Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and DirectorDavid G. Anderson62Senior Vice President — Finance and TreasurerVictor L. Campbell63Senior Vice PresidentCharles J. Hall56President — Eastern GroupSamuel N. Hazen49President — Western GroupA. Bruce Moore, Jr.50President — Outpatient Services GroupJonathan B. Perlin, M.D.49President — Clinical Services Group and Chief Medical
    OfficerW. Paul Rutledge55President — Central GroupJoseph A. Sowell, III53Senior Vice President — DevelopmentJoseph N. Steakley55Senior Vice President — Internal Audit ServicesJohn M. Steele54Senior Vice President — Human ResourcesDonald W. Stinnett53Senior Vice President and ControllerBeverly B. Wallace59President — Shared Services GroupRobert A. Waterman56Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Labor Relations
    OfficerNoel Brown Williams54Senior Vice President and Chief Information OfficerAlan R. Yuspeh60Senior Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer





Richard M. Brackenhas served as Chief Executive Officer
    since January 2009 and was appointed as Chairman of the Board in
    December 2009. Mr. Bracken served as President and Chief
    Executive Officer from January 2009 to December 2009.
    Mr. Bracken was appointed Chief Operating Officer in July
    2001 and served as President and Chief Operating Officer from
    January 2002 to January 2009. Mr. Bracken served as
    President — Western Group of the Company from August
    1997 until July 2001. From January 1995 to August 1997,
    Mr. Bracken served as President of the Pacific Division of
    the Company. Prior to 1995, Mr. Bracken served in various
    hospital Chief Executive Officer and Administrator positions
    with HCA-Hospital Corporation of America.



R. Milton Johnsonhas served as Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since July
    2004 and was appointed as a director in December 2009.
    Mr. Johnson served as Senior Vice President and Controller
    of the Company from July 1999 until July 2004. Mr. Johnson
    served as Vice President and Controller of the Company from
    November 1998 to July 1999. Prior to that time, Mr. Johnson
    served as Vice President — Tax of the Company from
    April 1995 to October 1998. Prior to that time, Mr. Johnson
    served as Director of Tax for Healthtrust from September 1987 to
    April 1995.





David G. Andersonhas served as Senior Vice
    President — Finance and Treasurer of the Company since
    July 1999. Mr. Anderson served as Vice President
    — Finance of the Company from September 1993 to July
    1999 and was elected to the additional position of Treasurer in
    November 1996. From March 1993 until September 1993,
    Mr. Anderson served as Vice President — Finance
    and Treasurer of Galen Health Care, Inc. From July 1988 to March
    1993, Mr. Anderson served as Vice President —
    Finance and Treasurer of Humana Inc.



Victor L. Campbellhas served as Senior Vice President of
    the Company since February 1994. Prior to that time,
    Mr. Campbell served as HCA-Hospital Corporation of
    America’s Vice President for Investor, Corporate and
    Government Relations. Mr. Campbell joined HCA-Hospital
    Corporation of America in 1972. Mr. Campbell serves on the
    Board of the Nashville Health Care Council, as a member of the
    American Hospital Association’s President’s Forum, and
    on the Board and Executive Committee of the Federation of
    American Hospitals.



Charles J. Hallwas appointed President —
    Eastern Group of the Company in October 2006. Prior to that
    time, Mr. Hall had served as President — North
    Florida Division since April 2003. Mr. Hall had previously
    served the Company as President of the East Florida Division
    from January 1999 until April 2003, as a Market President in the
    East Florida Division from January 1998 until December 1998, as
    President of the South Florida Division from February 1996 until
    December 1997, and as President of the Southwest Florida
    Division from October 1994 until February 1996, and in various
    other capacities since 1987.



Samuel N. Hazenwas appointed President —
    Western Group of the Company in July 2001. Mr. Hazen served
    as Chief Financial Officer — Western Group of the
    Company from August 1995 to July 2001. Mr. Hazen served as
    Chief Financial Officer — North Texas Division of the
    Company from February 1994 to July 1995. Prior to that time,
    Mr. Hazen served in various hospital and regional Chief
    Financial Officer positions with Humana Inc. and Galen Health
    Care, Inc.



Bruce Moore, Jr.was appointed President —
    Outpatient Services Group in January 2006. Mr. Moore had
    served as Senior Vice President and as Chief Operating
    Officer — Outpatient Services Group since July 2004
    and as Senior Vice President — Operations
    Administration from July 1999 until July 2004. Mr. Moore
    served as Vice President — Operations Administration
    of the Company from September 1997 to July 1999, as Vice
    President — Benefits from October 1996 to September
    1997, and as Vice President — Compensation from March
    1995 until October 1996.



Dr. Jonathan B. Perlinwas appointed
    President — Clinical Services Group and Chief Medical
    Officer in November 2007. Dr. Perlin had served as Chief
    Medical Officer and Senior Vice President — Quality of
    the Company from August 2006 to November 2007. Prior to joining
    the Company, Dr. Perlin served as Under Secretary for
    Health in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs since
    April 2004. Dr. Perlin joined the Veterans Health
    Administration in November 1999 where he served in various
    capacities, including as Deputy Under Secretary for Health from
    July 2002 to April 2004, and as Chief Quality and Performance
    Officer from November 1999 to September 2002.



W. Paul Rutledgewas appointed as
    President — Central Group in October 2005.
    Mr. Rutledge had served as President of the MidAmerica
    Division since January 2001. He served as President of TriStar
    Health System from June 1996 to January 2001 and served as
    President of Centennial Medical Center from May 1993 to June
    1996. He has served in leadership capacities with HCA for more
    than 27 years, working with hospitals in the United States
    and London, England.



Joseph A. Sowell, IIIwas appointed as Senior Vice
    President and Chief Development Officer of the Company in
    December 2009. From 1987 to 1996 and again from 1999 to 2009,
    Mr. Sowell was a partner at the law firm of Waller Lansden
    Dortch & Davis. From 1996 to 1999, Mr. Sowell
    served as the head of development, and later as the Chief
    Operating Officer of Arcon Healthcare.



Joseph N. Steakleyhas served as Senior Vice
    President — Internal Audit Services of the Company
    since July 1999. Mr. Steakley served as Vice President
    — Internal Audit Services from November 1997 to July
    1999. From October 1989 until October 1997, Mr. Steakley
    was a partner with Ernst & Young LLP.
    Mr. Steakley is a member of the board of directors of J.
    Alexander’s Corporation, where he serves on the
    compensation committee and as chairman of the audit committee.



John M. Steelehas served as Senior Vice
    President — Human Resources of the Company since
    November 2003. Mr. Steele served as Vice
    President — Compensation and Recruitment of the
    Company from November 1997





to October 2003. From March 1995 to November 1997,
    Mr. Steele served as Assistant Vice President
    — Recruitment.



Donald W. Stinnetthas served as Senior Vice President
    and Controller since December 2008. Mr. Stinnett served as
    Chief Financial Officer — Eastern Group from October
    2005 to December 2008 and Chief Financial Officer of the Far
    West Division from July 1999 to October 2005. Mr. Stinnett
    served as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance
    of Franciscan Health System of the Ohio Valley from 1995 until
    1999, and served in various capacities with Franciscan Health
    System of Cincinnati and Providence Hospital in Cincinnati prior
    to that time.



Beverly B. Wallacewas appointed President —
    Shared Services Group in March 2006. From January 2003 until
    March 2006, Ms. Wallace served as President
    — Financial Services Group. Ms. Wallace served as
    Senior Vice President — Revenue Cycle Operations
    Management of the Company from July 1999 to January 2003.
    Ms. Wallace served as Vice President — Managed
    Care of the Company from July 1998 to July 1999. From 1997 to
    1998, Ms. Wallace served as President — Homecare
    Division of the Company. From 1996 to 1997, Ms. Wallace
    served as Chief Financial Officer — Nashville Division
    of the Company. From 1994 to 1996, Ms. Wallace served as
    Chief Financial Officer —Mid-AmericaDivision of the Company.



Robert A. Watermanhas served as Senior Vice President
    and General Counsel of the Company since November 1997 and Chief
    Labor Relations Officer since March 2009. Mr. Waterman
    served as a partner in the law firm of Latham &
    Watkins from September 1993 to October 1997; he was Chair of the
    firm’s healthcare group during 1997.



Noel Brown Williamshas served as Senior Vice President
    and Chief Information Officer of the Company since October 1997.
    From October 1996 to September 1997, Ms. Williams served as
    Chief Information Officer for American Service Group/Prison
    Health Services, Inc. From September 1995 to September 1996,
    Ms. Williams worked as an independent consultant. From June
    1993 to June 1995, Ms. Williams served as Vice President,
    Information Services for HCA Information Services. From February
    1979 to June 1993, she held various positions with HCA-Hospital
    Corporation of America Information Services.



Alan R. Yuspehhas served as Senior Vice President and
    Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer of the Company since May
    2007. From October 1997 to May 2007, Mr. Yuspeh served as
    Senior Vice President — Ethics, Compliance and
    Corporate Responsibility of the Company. From September 1991
    until October 1997, Mr. Yuspeh was a partner with the law
    firm of Howrey & Simon. As a part of his law practice,
    Mr. Yuspeh served from 1987 to 1997 as Coordinator of the
    Defense Industry Initiative on Business Ethics and Conduct.



