Item 1.Business



General



HCA Holdings, Inc. is one of the leading health care services
    companies in the United States. At December 31, 2010, we
    operated 164 hospitals, comprised of 158 general, acute care
    hospitals; five psychiatric hospitals; and one rehabilitation
    hospital. The 164 hospital total includes eight hospitals (seven
    general, acute care hospitals and one rehabilitation hospital)
    owned by joint ventures in which an affiliate of HCA is a
    partner, and these joint ventures are accounted for using the
    equity method. In addition, we operated 106 freestanding surgery
    centers, nine of which are owned by joint ventures in which an
    affiliate of HCA is a partner, and these joint ventures are
    accounted for using the equity method. Our facilities are
    located in 20 states and England.



The terms “Company,” “HCA,” “we,”
    “our” or “us,” as used herein and unless
    otherwise stated or indicated by context, refer to HCA Inc. and
    its affiliates prior to the Corporate Reorganization (as defined
    below) and to HCA Holdings, Inc. and its affiliates after the
    Corporate Reorganization. The term “affiliates” means
    direct and indirect subsidiaries of HCA Holdings, Inc. and
    partnerships and joint ventures in which such subsidiaries are
    partners. The terms “facilities” or
    “hospitals” refer to entities owned and operated by
    affiliates of HCA and the term “employees” refers to
    employees of affiliates of HCA.



Our primary objective is to provide a comprehensive array of
    quality health care services in the most cost-effective manner
    possible. Our general, acute care hospitals typically provide a
    full range of services to accommodate such medical specialties
    as internal medicine, general surgery, cardiology, oncology,
    neurosurgery, orthopedics and obstetrics, as well as diagnostic
    and emergency services. Outpatient and ancillary health care
    services are provided by our general, acute care hospitals,
    freestanding surgery centers, diagnostic centers and
    rehabilitation facilities. Our psychiatric hospitals provide a
    full range of mental health care services through inpatient,
    partial hospitalization and outpatient settings.



On November 17, 2006, HCA Inc. was acquired by a private
    investor group comprised of affiliates of or funds sponsored by
    Bain Capital Partners, LLC (“Bain Capital”), Kohlberg
    Kravis Roberts & Co. (“KKR”) and Merrill
    Lynch Global Private Equity (“MLGPE”), now BAML
    Capital Partners (each a “Sponsor”), Citigroup Inc.
    and Bank of America Corporation (the “Sponsor
    Assignees”) and HCA founder Dr. Thomas F.
    Frist, Jr. (the “Frist Entities”), a group we
    collectively refer to as the “Investors,” and by
    members of management and certain other investors. We refer to
    the merger, the financing transactions related to the merger and
    other related transactions collectively as the
    “Recapitalization.” The merger was accounted for as a
    recapitalization in our financial statements, with no
    adjustments to the historical basis of our assets and
    liabilities. As a result of the Recapitalization, our
    outstanding capital stock is owned by the Investors, certain
    members of management and key employees. On April 29, 2008,
    we registered our common stock pursuant to Section 12(g) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
    “Exchange Act”), thus subjecting us to the reporting
    requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934, as amended. Our common stock is not traded on a
    national securities exchange.



The Company was incorporated in Nevada in January 1990 and
    reincorporated in Delaware in September 1993. Our principal
    executive offices are located at One Park Plaza, Nashville,
    Tennessee 37203, and our telephone number is(615) 344-9551.



Corporate
    Reorganization



On November 22, 2010, HCA Inc. reorganized by creating a
    new holding company structure (the “Corporate
    Reorganization”). We are the new parent company, and HCA
    Inc. is now our wholly-owned direct subsidiary. As part of the
    Corporate Reorganization, HCA Inc.’s outstanding shares of
    capital stock were automatically converted, on a share for share
    basis, into identical shares of our common stock. Our amended
    and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated
    by-laws, executive officers and board of directors are the same
    as HCA Inc.’s in effect immediately prior to the Corporate
    Reorganization, and the rights, privileges and interests of HCA
    Inc.’s stockholders remain the same with respect to us as
    the new holding company. Additionally, as a result of the





Corporate Reorganization, we are deemed the successor registrant
    to HCA Inc. under the Exchange Act, and shares of our common
    stock are deemed registered under Section 12(g) of the
    Exchange Act. As part of the Corporate Reorganization, we will
    become a guarantor but will not assume the debt of HCA
    Inc.’s outstanding secured notes.



We have assumed all of HCA Inc.’s obligations with respect
    to the outstanding shares previously registered onForm S-8for distribution pursuant to HCA Inc.’s stock incentive
    plan and have also assumed HCA Inc.’s other equity
    incentive plans that provide for the right to acquire HCA
    Inc.’s common stock, whether or not exercisable. We have
    also assumed and agreed to perform HCA Inc.’s obligations
    under its other compensation plans and agreements pursuant to
    which HCA Inc. is to issue equity securities to its directors,
    officers, or employees. The agreements and plans we assumed were
    each deemed to be automatically amended as necessary to provide
    that references therein to HCA Inc. now refer to HCA Holdings,
    Inc. Consequently, following the Corporate Reorganization, the
    right to receive HCA Inc.’s common stock under its various
    compensation plans and agreements automatically converted into
    rights for the same number of shares of our common stock, with
    the same rights and conditions as the corresponding HCA Inc.
    rights prior to the Corporate Reorganization.



Available
    Information



We file certain reports with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“the SEC”), including annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Qand current reports onForm 8-K.The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC
    at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public
    may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
    Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.We are an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet
    site athttp://www.sec.govthat contains the reports, proxy and information statements and
    other information we file electronically. Our website address is
    www.hcahealthcare.com. Please note that our website address is
    provided as an inactive textual reference only. We make
    available free of charge, through our website, our annual report
    onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such material is electronically
    filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information provided on
    our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not
    incorporated by reference unless such information is
    specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.



Our Code of Conduct is available free of charge upon request to
    our Corporate Secretary, HCA Holdings, Inc., One Park Plaza,
    Nashville, Tennessee 37203.



Business
    Strategy



We are committed to providing the communities we serve with high
    quality, cost-effective health care while growing our business,
    increasing our profitability and creating long-term value for
    our stockholders. To achieve these objectives, we align our
    efforts around the following growth agenda:



•grow our presence in existing markets;•achieve industry-leading performance in clinical and
    satisfaction measures;•recruit and employ physicians to meet need for high quality
    health services;•continue to leverage our scale and market positions to enhance
    profitability; and•selectively pursue a disciplined development strategy.



Health
    Care Facilities



We currently own, manage or operate hospitals; freestanding
    surgery centers; diagnostic and imaging centers; radiation and
    oncology therapy centers; comprehensive rehabilitation and
    physical therapy centers; and various other facilities.



At December 31, 2010, we owned and operated 151 general,
    acute care hospitals with 38,321 licensed beds, and an
    additional seven general, acute care hospitals with 2,269
    licensed beds are operated through joint ventures, which are
    accounted for using the equity method. Most of our general,
    acute care hospitals provide medical and





surgical services, including inpatient care, intensive care,
    cardiac care, diagnostic services and emergency services. The
    general, acute care hospitals also provide outpatient services
    such as outpatient surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory
    therapy, cardiology and physical therapy. Each hospital has an
    organized medical staff and a local board of trustees or
    governing board, made up of members of the local community.



Our hospitals do not typically engage in extensive medical
    research and education programs. However, some of our hospitals
    are affiliated with medical schools and may participate in the
    clinical rotation of medical interns and residents and other
    education programs.



At December 31, 2010, we operated five psychiatric
    hospitals with 506 licensed beds. Our psychiatric hospitals
    provide therapeutic programs including child, adolescent and
    adult psychiatric care, adult and adolescent alcohol and drug
    abuse treatment and counseling.



We also operate outpatient health care facilities which include
    freestanding ambulatory surgery centers (“ASCs”),
    diagnostic and imaging centers, comprehensive outpatient
    rehabilitation and physical therapy centers, outpatient
    radiation and oncology therapy centers and various other
    facilities. These outpatient services are an integral component
    of our strategy to develop comprehensive health care networks in
    select communities. Most of our ASCs are operated through
    partnerships or limited liability companies, with majority
    ownership of each partnership or limited liability company
    typically held by a general partner or subsidiary that is an
    affiliate of HCA.



Certain of our affiliates provide a variety of management
    services to our health care facilities, including patient safety
    programs; ethics and compliance programs; national supply
    contracts; equipment purchasing and leasing contracts;
    accounting, financial and clinical systems; governmental
    reimbursement assistance; construction planning and
    coordination; information technology systems and solutions;
    legal counsel; human resources services; and internal audit
    services.



Sources
    of Revenue



Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the
    medical and ancillary services ordered by physicians and
    provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and
    the charges or payment rates for such services. Charges and
    reimbursement rates for inpatient services vary significantly
    depending on the type of payer, the type of service (e.g.,
    medical/surgical, intensive care or psychiatric) and the
    geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels
    fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our
    control.



We receive payment for patient services from the federal
    government under the Medicare program, state governments under
    their respective Medicaid or similar programs, managed care
    plans, private insurers and directly from patients. The
    approximate percentages of our revenues from such sources were
    as follows:



Year EndedDecember 31,201020092008Medicare24%23%23%Managed Medicare776Medicaid665Managed Medicaid443Managed care and other insurers535253Uninsured6810Total100%100%100%





Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and
    medical insurance benefits to persons age 65 and over, some
    disabled persons, persons with end-stage renal disease and
    persons with Lou Gehrig’s Disease. Medicaid is a
    federal-state program, administered by the states, which
    provides hospital and medical benefits to qualifying individuals
    who are unable to afford health care. All of our general, acute
    care hospitals located in the United States are certified as
    health care services providers for persons covered under
    Medicare and Medicaid programs. Amounts received under Medicare
    and Medicaid programs are generally significantly less than
    established hospital gross charges for the services provided.





Our hospitals generally offer discounts from established charges
    to certain group purchasers of health care services, including
    private insurance companies, employers, HMOs, PPOs and other
    managed care plans. These discount programs generally limit our
    ability to increase revenues in response to increasing costs.
    See Item 1, “Business — Competition.”
    Patients are generally not responsible for the total difference
    between established hospital gross charges and amounts
    reimbursed for such services under Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs or
    PPOs and other managed care plans, but are responsible to the
    extent of any exclusions, deductibles or coinsurance features of
    their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles and
    coinsurance continues to increase. Collection of amounts due
    from individuals is typically more difficult than from
    governmental or third-party payers. We provide discounts to
    uninsured patients who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity
    care under our charity care policy. These discounts are similar
    to those provided to many local managed care plans. In
    implementing the discount policy, we attempt to qualify
    uninsured patients for Medicaid, other federal or state
    assistance or charity care under our charity care policy. If an
    uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the
    uninsured discount is applied.



Medicare



Inpatient
    Acute Care



Under the Medicare program, we receive reimbursement under a
    prospective payment system (“PPS”) for general, acute
    care hospital inpatient services. Under the hospital inpatient
    PPS, fixed payment amounts per inpatient discharge are
    established based on the patient’s assigned Medicare
    severity diagnosis-related group (“MS-DRG”). The
    Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
    (“CMS”) completed a two-year transition to full
    implementation of MS-DRGs to replace the previously used
    Medicare diagnosis related groups in an effort to better
    recognize severity of illness in Medicare payment rates. MS-DRGs
    classify treatments for illnesses according to the estimated
    intensity of hospital resources necessary to furnish care for
    each principal diagnosis. MS-DRG weights represent the average
    resources for a given MS-DRG relative to the average resources
    for all MS-DRGs. MS-DRG payments are adjusted for area wage
    differentials. Hospitals, other than those defined as
    “new,” receive PPS reimbursement for inpatient capital
    costs based on MS-DRG weights multiplied by a geographically
    adjusted federal rate. When the cost to treat certain patients
    falls well outside the normal distribution, providers typically
    receive additional “outlier” payments.



10-year



For federal fiscal year 2010, CMS initially set the MS-DRG rate
    increase at the full market basket of 2.1%, but CMS reduced the
    increase to 1.85% for discharges occurring on or after
    April 1, 2010, as required by the Health Reform Law. For
    federal fiscal year 2011, CMS increased the MS-DRG rate for
    federal fiscal year 2011 by 2.35%, representing the full market
    basket of 2.6% minus the 0.25% reduction required by the Health
    Reform Law. CMS also applied a documentation and coding
    adjustment of negative 2.9% in federal fiscal year 2011 to
    account for





increases in aggregate payments during implementation of the
    MS-DRG system. This reduction represents half of the
    documentation and coding adjustment that CMS intends to
    implement. CMS plans to recover the remaining 2.9% and interest
    in federal fiscal year 2012. The market basket update and the
    documentation and coding adjustment together result in an
    aggregate market basket adjustment for federal fiscal year 2011
    of negative 0.55%. CMS has also announced that an additional
    prospective negative adjustment of 3.9% will be needed to avoid
    increased Medicare spending unrelated to patient severity of
    illness. CMS did not implement this additional 3.9% reduction in
    federal fiscal year 2011 but has stated that it will be required
    in the future.



Further realignments in the MS-DRG system could also reduce the
    payments we receive for certain specialties, including
    cardiology and orthopedics. CMS has focused on payment levels
    for such specialties in recent years in part because of the
    proliferation of specialty hospitals. Changes in the payments
    received for specialty services could have an adverse effect on
    our results of operations.



The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization
    Act of 2003 (“MMA”) provides for hospitals to receive
    a 2% reduction to their market basket updates if they fail to
    submit data for patient care quality indicators to the Secretary
    of HHS. As required by the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005
    (“DRA 2005”), CMS has expanded, through a series of
    rulemakings, the number of quality measures that must be
    reported to avoid the market basket reduction. In federal fiscal
    year 2011, CMS requires hospitals to report 55 quality measures
    in order to avoid the market basket reduction for inpatient PPS
    payments in federal fiscal year 2012. All of our hospitals paid
    under the Medicare inpatient PPS are participating in the
    quality initiative by submitting the requested quality data.
    While we will endeavor to comply with all data submission
    requirements as additional requirements continue to be added,
    our submissions may not be deemed timely or sufficient to
    entitle us to the full market basket adjustment for all of our
    hospitals.



As part of CMS’ goal of transforming Medicare from a
    passive payer to an active purchaser of quality goods and
    services, for discharges occurring after October 1, 2008,
    Medicare no longer assigns an inpatient hospital discharge to a
    higher paying MS-DRG if a selected hospital acquired condition
    (“HAC”) was not present on admission. In this
    situation, the case is paid as though the secondary diagnosis
    was not present. Currently, there are ten categories of
    conditions on the list of HACs. In addition, CMS has established
    three National Coverage Determinations that prohibit Medicare
    reimbursement for erroneous surgical procedures performed on an
    inpatient or outpatient basis. The Health Reform Law provides
    for reduced payments based on a hospital’s HAC rates.
    Beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, the 25% of hospitals with
    the worst national risk-adjusted HAC rates in the previous year
    will receive a 1% reduction in their total inpatient operating
    Medicare payments. In addition, effective July 1, 2011, the
    Health Reform Law prohibits the use of federal funds under the
    Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical services
    provided to treat HACs.



The Health Reform Law also provides for reduced payments to
    hospitals based on readmission rates. Beginning in federal
    fiscal year 2013, inpatient payments will be reduced if a
    hospital experiences “excessive” readmissions within a
    time period specified by HHS from the date of discharge for
    heart attack, heart failure, pneumonia or other conditions
    designated by HHS. Hospitals with what HHS defines as excessive
    readmissions for these conditions will receive reduced payments
    for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to
    the conditions subject to the excessive readmission standard.
    Each hospital’s performance will be publicly reported by
    HHS. HHS has the discretion to determine what
    “excessive” readmissions means and other terms and
    conditions of this program.



The Health Reform Law additionally establishes a value-based
    purchasing program to further link payments to quality and
    efficiency. In federal fiscal year 2013, HHS is directed to
    implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient
    hospital services. Beginning in federal fiscal year 2013, CMS
    will reduce the inpatient PPS payment amount for all discharges
    by the following: 1% for 2013; 1.25% for 2014; 1.5% for 2015;
    1.75% for 2016; and 2% for 2017 and subsequent years. For each
    federal fiscal year, the total amount collected from these
    reductions will be pooled and used to fund payments to reward
    hospitals that meet certain quality performance standards
    established by HHS. HHS will determine the quality performance
    measures, the standards hospitals must achieve in order to meet
    the quality performance measures and the methodology for
    calculating payments to hospitals that meet the required quality
    threshold. HHS will also determine the amount each hospital that
    meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive
    from the pool of dollars created by the reductions related to
    the value-based





purchasing program. On January 7, 2011, CMS issued a
    proposed rule for the value-based purchasing program that would
    use 17 clinical process of care measures and eight dimensions of
    a patient’s experience of care using the Hospital Consumer
    Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems
    (“HCAHPS”) survey to determine incentive payments for
    federal fiscal year 2013. As proposed, the incentive payments
    would be calculated based on a combination of measures of
    hospitals’ achievement of the performance standards and
    their improvement in meeting the performance standards compared
    to prior periods. To determine payments in federal fiscal year
    2013, the baseline performance period (measurement standard) as
    proposed would be July 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010.
    To determine whether hospitals meet performance standards, CMS
    would compare each hospital’s performance in the period
    July 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012 to its performance
    in the baseline performance period. CMS has not yet proposed
    specific threshold values for the performance standards. CMS
    also proposes to add three outcome measures for federal fiscal
    year 2014, for which the performance period would be
    July 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012 and the
    baseline performance period would be July 1, 2008 through
    December 31, 2009.



Historically, the Medicare program has set aside 5.10% of
    Medicare inpatient payments to pay for outlier cases. For
    federal fiscal year 2010, CMS established an outlier threshold
    of $23,140, and for federal fiscal year 2011, CMS reduced the
    outlier threshold to $23,075. We do not anticipate that the
    decrease to the outlier threshold for federal fiscal year 2011
    will have a material impact on our results of operations.



Outpatient



CMS reimburses hospital outpatient services (and certain
    Medicare Part B services furnished to hospital inpatients
    who have no Part A coverage) on a PPS basis. CMS uses fee
    schedules to pay for physical, occupational and speech
    therapies, durable medical equipment, clinical diagnostic
    laboratory services and nonimplantable orthotics and
    prosthetics, freestanding surgery centers services and services
    provided by independent diagnostic testing facilities.



10-year



Rehabilitation



CMS reimburses inpatient rehabilitation facilities
    (“IRFs”) on a PPS basis. Under IRF PPS, patients are
    classified into case mix groups based upon impairment, age,
    comorbidities (additional diseases or disorders from which the
    patient suffers) and functional capability. IRFs are paid a
    predetermined amount per discharge that reflects the
    patient’s case mix group and is adjusted for area wage
    levels, low-income patients, rural areas and high-cost outliers.
    CMS provided for a market basket update of 2.5% for federal
    fiscal year 2010. However, the Health





10-year



On May 7, 2004, CMS published a final rule to change the
    criteria for being classified as an IRF. Pursuant to that final
    rule, 75% of a facility’s inpatients over a given year had
    to have been treated for at least one of 10 specified
    conditions, and a subsequent regulation expanded the number of
    specified conditions to 13. Since then, several statutory and
    regulatory adjustments have been made to the rule, including
    adjustments to the percentage of a facility’s patients that
    must be treated for one of the 13 specified conditions.
    Currently, the compliance threshold is set by statute at 60%.
    Implementation of this 60% threshold has reduced our IRF
    admissions and can be expected to continue to restrict the
    treatment of patients whose medical conditions do not meet any
    of the 13 approved conditions. In addition, effective
    January 1, 2010, IRFs must meet additional coverage
    criteria, including patient selection and care requirements
    relating to pre-admission screenings, post-admission
    evaluations, ongoing coordination of care and involvement of
    rehabilitation physicians. A facility that fails to meet the 60%
    threshold or other criteria to be classified as an IRF will be
    paid under the acute care hospital inpatient or outpatient PPS,
    which generally provide for lower payment amounts.



Psychiatric



10-year





required by the Health Reform Law, this would result in a market
    basket update of 2.75%. As of December 31, 2010, we had
    five psychiatric hospitals and 35 hospital psychiatric units.



Ambulatory
    Surgery Centers



10-year



Physician
    Services



Physician services are reimbursed under the physician fee
    schedule (“PFS”) system, under which CMS has assigned
    a national relative value unit (“RVU”) to most medical
    procedures and services that reflects the various resources
    required by a physician to provide the services relative to all
    other services. Each RVU is calculated based on a combination of
    work required in terms of time and intensity of effort for the
    service, practice expense (overhead) attributable to the service
    and malpractice insurance expense attributable to the service.
    These three elements are each modified by a geographic
    adjustment factor to account for local practice costs then
    aggregated. The aggregated amount is multiplied by a conversion
    factor that accounts for inflation and targeted growth in
    Medicare expenditures (as calculated by the sustainable growth
    rate (“SGR”)) to arrive at the payment amount for each
    service. While RVUs for various services may change in a given
    year, any alterations are required by statute to be virtually
    budget neutral, such that total payments made under the PFS may
    not differ by more than $20 million from what payments
    would have been if adjustments were not made.



The PFS rates are adjusted each year, and reductions in both
    current and future payments are anticipated. The SGR formula, if
    implemented as mandated by statute, would result in significant
    reductions to payments under the PFS. Since 2003, the
    U.S. Congress has passed multiple legislative acts delaying
    application of the SGR to the PFS. For calendar year 2011, CMS
    issued a final rule that would have applied the SGR and resulted
    in an aggregate reduction of 24.9% to all physician payments
    under the PFS for federal fiscal year 2011. On December 15,
    2010, President Obama signed legislation delaying application of
    the SGR until January 1, 2012. We cannot predict whether
    the U.S. Congress will intervene to prevent this reduction
    to payments in the future.



Other



Under PPS, the payment rates are adjusted for the area
    differences in wage levels by a factor (“wage index”)
    reflecting the relative wage level in the geographic area
    compared to the national average wage level. Beginning in
    federal fiscal year 2007, CMS adjusted 100% of the wage index
    factor for occupational mix. The redistributive impact of wage
    index changes, while slightly negative in the aggregate, is not
    anticipated to have a material





financial impact for 2011. However, the Health Reform Law
    requires HHS to report to Congress by December 31, 2011
    with recommendations on how to comprehensively reform the
    Medicare wage index system.



As required by the MMA, CMS is implementing contractor reform
    whereby CMS has competitively bid the Medicare fiscal
    intermediary and Medicare carrier functions to 15 Medicare
    Administrative Contractors (“MACs”), which are
    geographically assigned and service both Part A and
    Part B providers within a given jurisdiction. Although CMS
    has awarded initial contracts to all 15 MAC jurisdictions, full
    transition to the MAC jurisdictions has been delayed due to CMS
    resoliciting some bids and implementing other corrective actions
    in response to filed protests. While chain providers had the
    option of having all hospitals use one home office MAC, HCA
    chose to use the MACs assigned to the geographic areas in which
    our hospitals are located. The individual MAC jurisdictions are
    in varying phases of transition. During the transition periods
    and for a potentially unforeseen period thereafter, all of these
    changes could impact claims processing functions and the
    resulting cash flow; however, we are unable to predict the
    impact at this time.



Under the Recovery Audit Contractor (“RAC”) program,
    CMS contracts with RACs on a contingency basis to conduct
    post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in
    the fee-for-service Medicare program. The RAC program was
    originally limited to certain states, but in 2010, CMS
    implemented the RAC program on a permanent, nationwide basis as
    required by statute.



The U.S. Congress has not permanently addressed the SGR
    reductions in physician compensation under the PFS. Any repeal
    of the SGR may be offset by reductions in Medicare payments to
    other types of providers.



Managed
    Medicare



fee-for-service



Medicaid



Medicaid programs are funded jointly by the federal government
    and the states and are administered by states under approved
    plans. Most state Medicaid program payments are made under a PPS
    or are based on negotiated payment levels with individual
    hospitals. Medicaid reimbursement is often less than a
    hospital’s cost of services. The Health Reform Law also
    requires states to expand Medicaid coverage to all individuals
    under age 65 with incomes up to 133% of the federal poverty
    level (“FPL”) by 2014. However, the Health Reform Law
    also requires states to apply a “5% income disregard”
    to the Medicaid eligibility standard, so that Medicaid
    eligibility will effectively be extended to those with incomes
    up to 138% of the FPL. In addition, effective July 1, 2011,
    the Health Reform Law will prohibit the use of federal funds
    under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical
    assistance provided to treat HACs.



Since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since
    the Medicaid program is often the state’s largest program,
    states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation
    designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. The current
    economic downturn has increased the budgetary pressures on most
    states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted and likely
    will continue to result in decreased spending, or decreased
    spending growth, for Medicaid programs in many states. The
    American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
    (“ARRA”) allocated approximately $87.0 billion to
    temporarily increase the share of program costs paid by the
    federal government to fund each state’s Medicaid program.





Although initially scheduled to expire at the end of 2010,
    Congress has allocated additional funds to extend this increased
    federal funding to states through June 2011. These funds have
    helped avoid more extensive program and reimbursement cuts, but
    the expiration of the increased federal funding could result in
    significant reductions to state Medicaid programs.



Further, as permitted by law, certain states in which we operate
    have adopted broad-based provider taxes to fund the non-federal
    share of Medicaid programs. Many states have also adopted, or
    are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage, enroll
    Medicaid recipients in managed care programsand/orimpose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand
    the states’ Medicaid systems. Effective March 23,
    2010, the Health Reform Law requires states to at least maintain
    Medicaid eligibility standards established prior to the
    enactment of the law for adults until January 1, 2014 and
    for children until October 1, 2019. However, states with
    budget deficits may seek a waiver from this requirement to
    address eligibility standards that apply to adults making more
    than 133% of the FPL.



Through DRA 2005, Congress has expanded the federal
    government’s involvement in fighting fraud, waste and abuse
    in the Medicaid program by creating the Medicaid Integrity
    Program. Among other things, DRA 2005 requires CMS to employ
    private contractors, referred to as Medicaid Integrity
    Contractors (“MICs”), to perform post-payment audits
    of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. MICs are assigned
    to five geographic regions and have commenced audits in states
    assigned to those regions. The Health Reform Law increases
    federal funding for the MIC program for federal fiscal year 2011
    and later years. In addition to MICs, several other contractors
    and state Medicaid agencies have increased their review
    activities. The Health Reform Law expands the RAC program’s
    scope to include Medicaid claims.



Managed
    Medicaid



Managed Medicaid programs enable states to contract with one or
    more entities for patient enrollment, care management and claims
    adjudication. The states usually do not relinquish program
    responsibilities for financing, eligibility criteria and core
    benefit plan design. We generally contract directly with one of
    the designated entities, usually a managed care organization.
    The provisions of these programs are state-specific.



Enrollment in managed Medicaid plans has increased in recent
    years, as state governments seek to control the cost of Medicaid
    programs. However, general economic conditions in the states in
    which we operate may require reductions in premium payments to
    these plans and may reduce enrollment in these plans.



Electronic
    Health Records



ARRA provides for Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments
    beginning in federal fiscal year 2011 for eligible hospitals and
    calendar year 2011 for eligible professionals that adopt and
    meaningfully use certified electronic health record
    (“EHR”) technology. A total of at least
    $20 billion in incentives is being made available through
    the Medicare and Medicaid EHR incentive programs to eligible
    hospitals and eligible professionals in the adoption of EHRs.



Under the Medicare incentive program, acute care hospitals that
    demonstrate meaningful use will receive incentive payments for
    up to four fiscal years. The Medicare incentive payment amount
    is the product of three factors: (1) an initial amount
    comprised of a base amount of $2,000,000 plus $200 for each
    acute care inpatient discharge during a payment year, beginning
    with a hospital’s 1,150th discharge of the year and
    ending with a hospital’s 23,000th discharge of the
    year; (2) the “Medicare share,” which is the sum
    of Medicare Part A and Part C acute care
    inpatient-bed-days divided by the product of the total
    inpatient-bed-days and a charity care factor; and (3) a
    transition factor applicable to the payment year. In order to
    maximize their incentive payments, acute care hospitals must
    participate in the incentive program by federal fiscal year
    2013. Beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, acute care
    hospitals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified
    EHR technology will receive reduced market basket updates under
    inpatient PPS.



Eligible professionals who demonstrate meaningful use are
    entitled to incentive payments for up to five payment years in
    an amount equal to 75% of their estimated Medicare allowed
    charges for covered professional services furnished during the
    relevant calendar year, subject to an annual limit. Eligible
    professionals must participate in the incentive payment program
    by calendar year 2012 in order to maximize their incentive
    payments and must participate by calendar year 2014 in order to
    receive any incentive payments. Beginning in calendar year





2015, eligible professionals who do not demonstrate meaningful
    use of certified EHR technology will face Medicare payment
    reductions.



The Medicaid EHR incentive program is voluntary for states to
    implement. For participating states, the Medicaid EHR incentive
    program will provide incentive payments for acute care hospitals
    and eligible professionals that meet certain volume percentages
    of Medicaid patients as well as children’s hospitals.
    Providers may only participate in a single state’s Medicaid
    EHR incentive program. Eligible professionals can only
    participate in either the Medicaid incentive program or the
    Medicare incentive program and can change this election only one
    time. Hospitals may participate in both the Medicare and
    Medicaid incentive programs.



To qualify for incentive payments under the Medicaid program,
    providers must adopt, implement, upgrade or demonstrate
    meaningful use of, certified EHR technology during their first
    participation year or successfully demonstrate meaningful use of
    certified EHR technology in subsequent participation years.
    Payments may be received for up to six participation years. For
    hospitals, the aggregate Medicaid EHR incentive amount is the
    product of two factors: (1) the overall EHR amount which is
    comprised of a base amount of $2,000,000 plus adischarge-relatedamount, multiplied by the Medicare share (which is set at one by
    statute) multiplied by a transition factor, and (2) the
    “Medicaid share,” which is the estimated Medicaid
    inpatient-bed days plus estimated Medicaid managed care
    inpatientbed-days,divided by the product of the estimated total inpatientbed-daysand
    a charity care factor. Under the Medicaid incentive program,
    eligible professionals may receive payments based on their EHR
    costs, up to total amount of $63,750, or for pediatricians,
    $42,500. There is no penalty for hospitals or professionals
    under Medicaid for failing to meet EHR meaningful use
    requirements.



Accountable
    Care Organizations and Pilot Projects









Disproportionate
    Share Hospital Payments



In addition to making payments for services provided directly to
    beneficiaries, Medicare makes additional payments to hospitals
    that treat a disproportionately large number of low-income
    patients (Medicaid and Medicare patients eligible to receive
    Supplemental Security Income). Disproportionate share hospital
    (“DSH”) payments are determined annually based on
    certain statistical information required by HHS and are
    calculated as a percentage addition to MS-DRG payments. The
    primary method used by a hospital to qualify for Medicare DSH
    payments is a complex statutory formula that results in a DSH
    percentage that is applied to payments on MS-DRGs.



Under the Health Reform Law, beginning in federal fiscal year
    2014, Medicare DSH payments will be reduced to 25% of the amount
    they otherwise would have been absent the law. The remaining 75%
    of the amount that would otherwise be paid under Medicare DSH
    will be effectively pooled, and this pool will be reduced
    further each year by a formula that reflects reductions in the
    national level of uninsured who are under 65 years of age.
    Each DSH hospital will then be paid, out of the reduced DSH
    payment pool, an amount allocated based upon its level of
    uncompensated care. It is difficult to predict the full impact
    of the Medicare DSH reductions. The CBO estimates
    $22 billion in reductions to Medicare DSH payments between
    2010 and 2019, while for the same time period, CMS estimates
    reimbursement reductions totaling $50 billion.



Hospitals that provide care to a disproportionately high number
    of low-income patients may receive Medicaid DSH payments. The
    federal government distributes federal Medicaid DSH funds to
    each state based on a statutory formula. The states then
    distribute the DSH funding among qualifying hospitals. States
    have broad discretion to define which hospitals qualify for
    Medicaid DSH payments and the amount of such payments. The
    Health Reform Law will reduce funding for the Medicaid DSH
    hospital program in federal fiscal years 2014 through 2020 by
    the following amounts: 2014 ($500 million); 2015
    ($600 million); 2016 ($600 million); 2017
    ($1.8 billion); 2018 ($5 billion); 2019
    ($5.6 billion); and 2020 ($4 billion). How such cuts
    are allocated among the states and how the states allocate these
    cuts among providers, have yet to be determined.



TRICARE



TRICARE is the Department of Defense’s health care program
    for members of the armed forces. For inpatient services, TRICARE
    reimburses hospitals based on a DRG system modeled on the
    Medicare inpatient PPS. The Department of Defense has also
    implemented a PPS for hospital outpatient services furnished to
    TRICARE beneficiaries similar to that utilized for services
    furnished to Medicare beneficiaries. Because the Medicare
    outpatient PPS APC rates have historically been below TRICARE
    rates, the adoption of this payment methodology for TRICARE
    beneficiaries has reduced our reimbursement; however, TRICARE
    outpatient services do not represent a significant portion of
    our patient volumes.



Annual
    Cost Reports



All hospitals participating in the Medicare, Medicaid and
    TRICARE programs, whether paid on a reasonable cost basis or
    under a PPS, are required to meet certain financial reporting
    requirements. Federal and, where applicable, state regulations
    require the submission of annual cost reports covering the
    revenues, costs and expenses associated with the services
    provided by each hospital to Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid
    recipients.



Annual cost reports required under the Medicare and Medicaid
    programs are subject to routine audits, which may result in
    adjustments to the amounts ultimately determined to be due to us
    under these reimbursement programs. These audits often require
    several years to reach the final determination of amounts due to
    or from us under these programs. Providers also have rights of
    appeal, and it is common to contest issues raised in audits of
    cost reports.



Managed
    Care and Other Discounted Plans



Most of our hospitals offer discounts from established charges
    to certain large group purchasers of health care services,
    including managed care plans and private insurance companies.
    Admissions reimbursed by commercial managed care and other
    insurers were 32%, 34% and 35% of our total admissions for the
    years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
    Managed care contracts are typically negotiated for terms
    between one and three years. While we generally received annual
    average yield increases of 5% to 6% from managed care payers
    during 2010, there can be no assurance that we will continue to
    receive increases in the future. It is not clear what impact, if





any, the increased obligations on managed care payers and other
    health plans imposed by the Health Reform Law will have on our
    ability to negotiate reimbursement increases.



Uninsured
    and Self-Pay Patients





We are taking proactive measures to reduce our provision for
    doubtful accounts by, among other things:



•screening all patients, including the uninsured, through our
    emergency screening protocol, to determine the appropriate care
    setting in light of their condition, while reducing the
    potential for bad debt; and•increasing up-front collections from patients subject to co-pay
    and deductible requirements and uninsured patients.





Hospital
    Utilization



We believe the most important factors relating to the overall
    utilization of a hospital are the quality and market position of
    the hospital and the number and quality of physicians and other
    health care professionals providing patient care within the
    facility. Generally, we believe the ability of a hospital to be
    a market leader is determined by its breadth of services, level
    of technology, emphasis on quality of care and convenience for
    patients and physicians. Other factors that impact utilization
    include the growth in local population, local economic
    conditions and market penetration of managed care programs.



The following table sets forth certain operating statistics for
    our health care facilities. Health care facility operations are
    subject to certain seasonal fluctuations, including decreases in
    patient utilization during holiday periods and increases in the
    cold weather months. The data set forth in this table includes
    only those facilities that are consolidated for financial
    reporting purposes.



Years Ended December 31,20102009200820072006Number of hospitals at end of period(a)156155158161166Number of freestanding outpatient surgery centers at end of
    period(b)9797979998Number of licensed beds at end of period(c)38,82738,83938,50438,40539,354Weighted average licensed beds(d)38,65538,82538,42239,06540,653Admissions(e)1,554,4001,556,5001,541,8001,552,7001,610,100Equivalent admissions(f)2,468,4002,439,0002,363,6002,352,4002,416,700Average length of stay (days)(g)4.84.84.94.94.9Average daily census(h)20,52320,65020,79521,04921,688Occupancy rate(i)53%53%54%54%53%Emergency room visits(j)5,706,2005,593,5005,246,4005,116,1005,213,500Outpatient surgeries(k)783,600794,600797,400804,900820,900Inpatient surgeries(l)487,100494,500493,100516,500533,100











(a)Excludes eight facilities in 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and seven
    facilities in 2006 that are not consolidated (accounted for
    using the equity method) for financial reporting purposes.



(b)Excludes nine facilities in 2010, 2007 and 2006 and eight
    facilities in 2009 and 2008 that are not consolidated (accounted
    for using the equity method) for financial reporting purposes.



(c)Licensed beds are those beds for which a facility has been
    granted approval to operate from the applicable state licensing
    agency.



(d)Represents the average number of licensed beds, weighted based
    on periods owned.



(e)Represents the total number of patients admitted to our
    hospitals and is used by management and certain investors as a
    general measure of inpatient volume.



(f)Equivalent admissions are used by management and certain
    investors as a general measure of combined inpatient and
    outpatient volume. Equivalent admissions are computed by
    multiplying admissions (inpatient volume) by the sum of gross
    inpatient revenue and gross outpatient revenue and then dividing
    the resulting amount by gross inpatient revenue. The equivalent
    admissions computation “equates” outpatient revenue to
    the volume measure (admissions) used to measure inpatient
    volume, resulting in a general measure of combined inpatient and
    outpatient volume.



(g)Represents the average number of days admitted patients stay in
    our hospitals.



(h)Represents the average number of patients in our hospital beds
    each day.



(i)Represents the percentage of hospital licensed beds occupied by
    patients. Both average daily census and occupancy rate provide
    measures of the utilization of inpatient rooms.



(j)Represents the number of patients treated in our emergency rooms.



(k)Represents the number of surgeries performed on patients who
    were not admitted to our hospitals. Pain management and
    endoscopy procedures are not included in outpatient surgeries.



(l)Represents the number of surgeries performed on patients who
    have been admitted to our hospitals. Pain management and
    endoscopy procedures are not included in inpatient surgeries.







Competition



Generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by
    most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered
    by our hospitals. Additionally, in recent years the number of
    freestanding ASCs and diagnostic centers (including facilities
    owned by physicians) in the geographic areas in which we operate
    has increased significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals
    operate in a highly competitive environment. In some cases,
    competing hospitals are more established than our hospitals.
    Some competing hospitals are owned by tax-supported government
    agencies and many others are owned bynot-for-profitentities that may be supported by endowments, charitable
    contributionsand/ortax
    revenues and are exempt from sales, property and income taxes.
    Such exemptions and support are not available to our hospitals.
    In certain localities there are large teaching hospitals that
    provide highly specialized facilities, equipment and services
    which may not be available at most of our hospitals. We face
    increasing competition from specialty hospitals, some of which
    are physician-owned, and both our own and unaffiliated
    freestanding ASCs for market share in high margin services.



Psychiatric hospitals frequently attract patients from areas
    outside their immediate locale and, therefore, our psychiatric
    hospitals compete with both local and regional hospitals,
    including the psychiatric units of general, acute care hospitals.



Our strategies are designed to ensure our hospitals are
    competitive. We believe our hospitals compete within local
    communities on the basis of many factors, including the quality
    of care, ability to attract and retain quality physicians,
    skilled clinical personnel and other health care professionals,
    location, breadth of services, technology offered and prices
    charged. The Health Reform Law requires hospitals to publish
    annually a list of their standard charges for items and
    services. We have increased our focus on operating outpatient
    services with improved accessibility and more convenient service
    for patients, and increased predictability and efficiency for
    physicians.



Two of the most significant factors to the competitive position
    of a hospital are the number and quality of physicians
    affiliated with or employed by the hospital. Although physicians
    may at any time terminate their relationship with a hospital we
    operate, our hospitals seek to retain physicians with varied
    specialties on the hospitals’ medical staffs and to attract
    other qualified physicians. We believe physicians refer patients
    to a hospital on the basis of the quality and scope of services
    it renders to patients and physicians, the quality of physicians
    on the medical staff, the location of the hospital and the
    quality of the hospital’s facilities, equipment and
    employees. Accordingly, we strive to maintain and provide
    quality facilities, equipment, employees and services for
    physicians and patients.





State certificate of need (“CON”) laws, which place
    limitations on a hospital’s ability to expand hospital
    services and facilities, make capital expenditures and otherwise
    make changes in operations, may also have the effect of
    restricting competition. We currently operate health care
    facilities in a number of states with CON laws. Before issuing a
    CON, these states consider the need for additional or expanded
    health care facilities or services. In





those states which have no CON laws or which set relatively high
    levels of expenditures before they become reviewable by state
    authorities, competition in the form of new services, facilities
    and capital spending is more prevalent. See Item 1,
    “Business — Regulation and Other Factors.”



We and the health care industry as a whole face the challenge of
    continuing to provide quality patient care while dealing with
    rising costs and strong competition for patients. Changes in
    medical technology, existing and future legislation, regulations
    and interpretations and managed care contracting for provider
    services by private and government payers remain ongoing
    challenges.



Admissions, average lengths of stay and reimbursement amounts
    continue to be negatively affected by payer-required
    pre-admission authorization, utilization review and payer
    pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care
    delivery services for less acutely ill patients. The Health
    Reform Law potentially expands the use of prepayment review by
    Medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on
    their use. Increased competition, admission constraints and
    payer pressures are expected to continue. To meet these
    challenges, we intend to expand our facilities or acquire or
    construct new facilities where appropriate, to enhance the
    provision of a comprehensive array of outpatient services, offer
    market competitive pricing to private payer groups, upgrade
    facilities and equipment and offer new or expanded programs and
    services.



Regulation
    and Other Factors



Licensure,
    Certification and Accreditation





Certificates
    of Need



In some states where we operate hospitals and other health care
    facilities, the construction or expansion of health care
    facilities, the acquisition of existing facilities, the transfer
    or change of ownership and the addition of new beds or services
    may be subject to review by and prior approval of state
    regulatory agencies under a CON program. Such laws generally
    require the reviewing state agency to determine the public need
    for additional or expanded health care facilities and services.
    Failure to obtain necessary state approval can result in the
    inability to expand facilities, complete an acquisition or
    change ownership.



State
    Rate Review



Some states have adopted legislation mandating rate or budget
    review for hospitals or have adopted taxes on hospital revenues,
    assessments or licensure fees to fund indigent health care
    within the state. In the aggregate, indigent tax provisions have
    not materially, adversely affected our results of operations.
    Although we do not currently operate facilities in states that
    mandate rate or budget reviews, we cannot predict whether we
    will operate in such states in the future, or whether the states
    in which we currently operate may adopt legislation mandating
    such reviews.





Federal
    Health Care Program Regulations



Participation in any federal health care program, including the
    Medicare and Medicaid programs, is heavily regulated by statute
    and regulation. If a hospital fails to substantially comply with
    the numerous conditions of participation in the Medicare and
    Medicaid programs or performs certain prohibited acts, the
    hospital’s participation in the federal health care
    programs may be terminated, or civiland/orcriminal penalties may be imposed.



Anti-kickback
    Statute



A section of the Social Security Act known as the
    “Anti-kickback Statute” prohibits providers and others
    from directly or indirectly soliciting, receiving, offering or
    paying any remuneration with the intent of generating referrals
    or orders for services or items covered by a federal health care
    program. Courts have interpreted this statute broadly and held
    that there is a violation of the Anti-kickback Statute if just
    one purpose of the remuneration is to generate referrals, even
    if there are other lawful purposes. Furthermore, the Health
    Reform Law provides that knowledge of the law or the intent to
    violate the law is not required. Violations of the Anti-kickback
    Statute may be punished by a criminal fine of up to $25,000 for
    each violation or imprisonment, civil money penalties of up to
    $50,000 per violation and damages of up to three times the total
    amount of the remunerationand/orexclusion from participation in federal health care programs,
    including Medicare and Medicaid. The Health Reform Law provides
    that submission of a claim for services or items generated in
    violation of the Anti-kickback Statute constitutes a false or
    fraudulent claim and may be subject to additional penalties
    under the federal False Claims Act (“FCA”).





The OIG also issues Special Advisory Bulletins as a means of
    providing guidance to health care providers. These bulletins,
    along with the Special Fraud Alerts, have focused on certain
    arrangements that could be subject to heightened scrutiny by
    government enforcement authorities, including:
    (a) contractual joint venture arrangements and other joint
    venture arrangements between those in a position to refer
    business, such as physicians, and those providing items or
    services for which Medicare or Medicaid pays, and
    (b) certain “gainsharing” arrangements, i.e., the
    practice of giving physicians a share of any reduction in a
    hospital’s costs for patient care attributable in part to
    the physician’s efforts.



In addition to issuing Special Fraud Alerts and Special Advisory
    Bulletins, the OIG issues compliance program guidance for
    certain types of health care providers. The OIG guidance
    identifies a number of risk areas under federal fraud and abuse
    statutes and regulations. These areas of risk include
    compensation arrangements with physicians, recruitment
    arrangements with physicians and joint venture relationships
    with physicians.



As authorized by Congress, the OIG has published safe harbor
    regulations that outline categories of activities deemed
    protected from prosecution under the Anti-kickback Statute.
    Currently, there are statutory exceptions and





safe harbors for various activities, including the following:
    certain investment interests, space rental, equipment rental,
    practitioner recruitment, personnel services and management
    contracts, sale of practice, referral services, warranties,
    discounts, employees, group purchasing organizations, waiver of
    beneficiary coinsurance and deductible amounts, managed care
    arrangements, obstetrical malpractice insurance subsidies,
    investments in group practices, freestanding surgery centers,
    ambulance replenishing, and referral agreements for specialty
    services.



The fact that conduct or a business arrangement does not fall
    within a safe harbor, or it is identified in a Special Fraud
    Alert or Advisory Bulletin or as a risk area in the Supplemental
    Compliance Guidelines for Hospitals, does not necessarily render
    the conduct or business arrangement illegal under the
    Anti-kickback Statute. However, such conduct and business
    arrangements may lead to increased scrutiny by government
    enforcement authorities.



We have a variety of financial relationships with physicians and
    others who either refer or influence the referral of patients to
    our hospitals and other health care facilities, including
    employment contracts, leases, medical director agreements and
    professional service agreements. We also have similar
    relationships with physicians and facilities to which patients
    are referred from our facilities. In addition, we provide
    financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to
    recruit physicians into the communities served by our hospitals.
    While we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors,
    certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures
    and financial relationships with physicians and other referral
    sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do
    not qualify for safe harbor protection.



Although we believe our arrangements with physicians and other
    referral sources have been structured to comply with current law
    and available interpretations, there can be no assurance
    regulatory authorities enforcing these laws will determine these
    financial arrangements comply with the Anti-kickback Statute or
    other applicable laws. An adverse determination could subject us
    to liabilities under the Social Security Act and other laws,
    including criminal penalties, civil monetary penalties and
    exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other
    federal health care programs.



Stark
    Law





Through a series of rulemakings, CMS has issued final
    regulations implementing the Stark Law. Additional changes to
    these regulations, which became effective October 1, 2009,
    further restrict the types of arrangements facilities and
    physicians may enter, including additional restrictions on
    certain leases, percentage compensation arrangements, and
    agreements under which a hospital purchases services “under
    arrangements.” While these regulations were intended to
    clarify the requirements of the exceptions to the Stark Law, it
    is unclear how the government will interpret many of these
    exceptions for enforcement purposes. CMS has indicated it is
    considering





additional changes to the Stark Law regulations. We do not
    always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial
    interpretation of these laws and regulations. We attempt to
    structure our relationships to meet an exception to the Stark
    Law, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are
    detailed and complex, and we cannot assure that every
    relationship complies fully with the Stark Law.



Similar
    State Laws



Many states in which we operate also have laws similar to the
    Anti-kickback Statute that prohibit payments to physicians for
    patient referrals and laws similar to the Stark Law that
    prohibit certain self-referrals. The scope of these state laws
    is broad, since they can often apply regardless of the source of
    payment for care, and little precedent exists for their
    interpretation or enforcement. These statutes typically provide
    for criminal and civil penalties, as well as loss of facility
    licensure.



Other
    Fraud and Abuse Provisions





Some of these provisions, including the federal Civil Monetary
    Penalty Law, require a lower burden of proof than other fraud
    and abuse laws, including the Anti-kickback Statute. Civil
    monetary penalties that may be imposed under the federal Civil
    Monetary Penalty Law range from $10,000 to $50,000 per act, and
    in some cases may result in penalties of up to three times the
    remuneration offered, paid, solicited or received. In addition,
    a violator may be subject to exclusion from federal and state
    health care programs. Federal and state governments increasingly
    use the federal Civil Monetary Penalty Law, especially where
    they believe they cannot meet the higher burden of proof
    requirements under the Anti-kickback Statute. Further,
    individuals can receive up to $1,000 for providing information
    on Medicare fraud and abuse that leads to the recovery of at
    least $100 of Medicare funds under the Medicare Integrity
    Program.



The
    Federal False Claims Act and Similar State Laws



Thequi tam, or whistleblower, provisions of the FCA
    allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the
    government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal
    government. Further, the government may use the FCA to prosecute
    Medicare and other government program fraud in areas such as
    coding errors, billing for services not provided and submitting
    false cost reports. When a private party brings aqui tamaction under the FCA, the defendant is not made aware of the
    lawsuit until the government commences its own investigation or
    makes a determination whether it will intervene. When a
    defendant is determined by a court of law to be liable under the
    FCA, the defendant may be required to pay three times the actual
    damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil
    penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false
    claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the
    FCA. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a
    false claim for





reimbursement to the federal government. The FCA defines the
    term “knowingly” broadly. Though simple negligence
    will not give rise to liability under the FCA, submitting a
    claim with reckless disregard to its truth or falsity
    constitutes a “knowing” submission under the FCA and,
    therefore, will qualify for liability. The Fraud Enforcement and
    Recovery Act of 2009 expanded the scope of the FCA by, among
    other things, creating liability for knowingly and improperly
    avoiding repayment of an overpayment received from the
    government and broadening protections for whistleblowers. Under
    the Health Reform Law, the FCA is implicated by the knowing
    failure to report and return an overpayment within 60 days
    of identifying the overpayment or by the date a corresponding
    cost report is due, whichever is later. Further, the Health
    Reform Law expands the scope of the FCA to cover payments in
    connection with the Exchanges to be created by the Health Reform
    Law, if those payments include any federal funds.



In some cases, whistleblowers and the federal government have
    taken the position, and some courts have held, that providers
    who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the
    Anti-kickback Statute and the Stark Law, have thereby submitted
    false claims under the FCA. The Health Reform Law clarifies this
    issue with respect to the Anti-kickback Statute by providing
    that submission of claims for services or items generated in
    violation of the Anti-kickback Statute constitutes a false or
    fraudulent claim under the FCA. Every entity that receives at
    least $5 million annually in Medicaid payments must have
    written policies for all employees, contractors or agents,
    providing detailed information about false claims, false
    statements and whistleblower protections under certain federal
    laws, including the FCA, and similar state laws. In addition,
    federal law provides an incentive to states to enact false
    claims laws comparable to the FCA. A number of states in which
    we operate have adopted their own false claims provisions as
    well as their own whistleblower provisions under which a private
    party may file a civil lawsuit in state court. We have adopted
    and distributed policies pertaining to the FCA and relevant
    state laws.



HIPAA
    Administrative Simplification and Privacy and Security
    Requirements







As required by ARRA, HHS published an interim final rule on
    August 24, 2009, that requires covered entities to report
    breaches of unsecured protected health information to affected
    individuals without unreasonable delay but





not to exceed 60 days of discovery of the breach by a
    covered entity or its agents. Notification must also be made to
    HHS and, in certain situations involving large breaches, to the
    media. HHS is required to publish on its website a list of all
    covered entities that report a breach involving more than 500
    individuals. Various state laws and regulations may also require
    us to notify affected individuals in the event of a data breach
    involving individually identifiable information.



Violations of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations may
    result in civil and criminal penalties, and ARRA has
    strengthened the enforcement provisions of HIPAA, which may
    result in increased enforcement activity. Under ARRA, HHS is
    required to conduct periodic compliance audits of covered
    entities and their business associates. ARRA broadens the
    applicability of the criminal penalty provisions to employees of
    covered entities and requires HHS to impose penalties for
    violations resulting from willful neglect. ARRA also
    significantly increases the amount of the civil penalties, with
    penalties of up to $50,000 per violation for a maximum civil
    penalty of $1,500,000 in a calendar year for violations of the
    same requirement. In addition, ARRA authorizes state attorneys
    general to bring civil actions seeking either injunction or
    damages in response to violations of HIPAA privacy and security
    regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. Our
    facilities also remain subject to any federal or state
    privacy-related laws that are more restrictive than the privacy
    regulations issued under HIPAA. These laws vary and could impose
    additional penalties.



There are numerous other laws and legislative and regulatory
    initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing privacy
    and security concerns. For example, the Federal Trade Commission
    (“FTC”) issued a final rule in October 2007 requiring
    financial institutions and creditors, which arguably included
    health providers and health plans, to implement written identity
    theft prevention programs to detect, prevent and mitigate
    identity theft in connection with certain accounts. The FTC
    delayed enforcement of this rule until December 31, 2010.
    In addition, on December 18, 2010, the Red Flag Program
    Clarification Act of 2010 became law, restricting the definition
    of a “creditor.” This law may exempt many hospitals
    from complying with the rule.



EMTALA



All of our hospitals in the United States are subject to EMTALA.
    This federal law requires any hospital participating in the
    Medicare program to conduct an appropriate medical screening
    examination of every individual who presents to the
    hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the
    individual is suffering from an emergency medical condition, to
    either stabilize the condition or make an appropriate transfer
    of the individual to a facility able to handle the condition.
    The obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical
    conditions exists regardless of an individual’s ability to
    pay for treatment. There are severe penalties under EMTALA if a
    hospital fails to screen or appropriately stabilize or transfer
    an individual or if the hospital delays appropriate treatment in
    order to first inquire about the individual’s ability to
    pay. Penalties for violations of EMTALA include civil monetary
    penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare
    program. In addition, an injured individual, the
    individual’s family or a medical facility that suffers a
    financial loss as a direct result of a hospital’s violation
    of the law can bring a civil suit against the hospital.



The government broadly interprets EMTALA to cover situations in
    which individuals do not actually present to a hospital’s
    emergency room, but present for emergency examination or
    treatment to the hospital’s campus, generally, or to a
    hospital-based clinic that treats emergency medical conditions
    or are transported in a hospital-owned ambulance, subject to
    certain exceptions. At least one court has interpreted the law
    also to apply to a hospital that has been notified of a
    patient’s pending arrival in a non-hospital owned
    ambulance. EMTALA does not generally apply to individuals
    admitted for inpatient services. The government has expressed
    its intent to investigate and enforce EMTALA violations actively
    in the future. We believe our hospitals operate in substantial
    compliance with EMTALA.



Corporate
    Practice of Medicine/Fee Splitting



Some of the states in which we operate have laws prohibiting
    corporations and other entities from employing physicians,
    practicing medicine for a profit and making certain direct and
    indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between health
    care providers designed to induce or encourage the referral of
    patients to, or the recommendation of, particular providers for
    medical products and services. Possible sanctions for violation
    of these





restrictions include loss of license and civil and criminal
    penalties. In addition, agreements between the corporation and
    the physician may be considered void and unenforceable. These
    statutes vary from state to state, are often vague and have
    seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies.



Health
    Care Industry Investigations



Significant media and public attention has focused in recent
    years on the hospital industry. This media and public attention,
    changes in government personnel or other factors may lead to
    increased scrutiny of the health care industry. While we are
    currently not aware of any material investigations of the
    Company under federal or state health care laws or regulations,
    it is possible that governmental entities could initiate
    investigations or litigation in the future at facilities we
    operate and that such matters could result in significant
    penalties, as well as adverse publicity. It is also possible
    that our executives and managers could be included in
    governmental investigations or litigation or named as defendants
    in private litigation.



Our substantial Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental
    billings result in heightened scrutiny of our operations. We
    continue to monitor all aspects of our business and have
    developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is
    designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and
    industry standards. Because the law in this area is complex and
    constantly evolving, governmental investigations or litigation
    may result in interpretations that are inconsistent with our or
    industry practices.



In public statements surrounding current investigations,
    governmental authorities have taken positions on a number of
    issues, including some for which little official interpretation
    previously has been available, that appear to be inconsistent
    with practices that have been common within the industry and
    that previously have not been challenged in this manner. In some
    instances, government investigations that have in the past been
    conducted under the civil provisions of federal law may now be
    conducted as criminal investigations.



Both federal and state government agencies have increased their
    focus on and coordination of civil and criminal enforcement
    efforts in the health care area. The OIG and the Department of
    Justice (“DOJ”) have, from time to time, established
    national enforcement initiatives, targeting all hospital
    providers that focus on specific billing practices or other
    suspected areas of abuse. The Health Reform Law includes
    additional federal funding of $350 million over the next
    10 years to fight health care fraud, waste and abuse,
    including $105 million for federal fiscal year 2011 and
    $65 million in federal fiscal year 2012. In addition,
    governmental agencies and their agents, such as MACs, fiscal
    intermediaries and carriers, may conduct audits of our health
    care operations. Private payers may conduct similar post-payment
    audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring.



In addition to national enforcement initiatives, federal and
    state investigations have addressed a wide variety of routine
    health care operations such as: cost reporting and billing
    practices, including for Medicare outliers; financial
    arrangements with referral sources; physician recruitment
    activities; physician joint ventures; and hospital charges and
    collection practices for self-pay patients. We engage in many of
    these routine health care operations and other activities that
    could be the subject of governmental investigations or
    inquiries. For example, we have significant Medicare and
    Medicaid billings, numerous financial arrangements with
    physicians who are referral sources to our hospitals, and joint
    venture arrangements involving physician investors. Certain of
    our individual facilities have received, and other facilities
    may receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to
    investigation by, federal and state agencies. Any additional
    investigations of the Company, our executives or managers could
    result in significant liabilities or penalties to us, as well as
    adverse publicity.



Commencing in 1997, we became aware we were the subject of
    governmental investigations and litigation relating to our
    business practices. As part of the investigations, the United
    States intervened in a number ofqui tamactions brought
    by private parties. The investigations related to, among other
    things, DRG coding, outpatient laboratory billing, home health
    issues, physician relations, cost report and wound care issues.
    The investigations were concluded through a series of agreements
    executed in 2000 and 2003 with the Criminal Division of the DOJ,
    the Civil Division of the DOJ, various U.S. Attorneys’
    offices, CMS, a negotiating team representing states with claims
    against us, and others. In January 2001, we entered into an
    eight-year Corporate Integrity Act (“CIA”) with the
    Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and
    Human Services, which expired January 24, 2009. We
    submitted our final report pursuant to the CIA on April 30,
    2009, and in April 2010, we received notice from the OIG that
    our final report was accepted, relieving us of future
    obligations under the CIA. If the government were to





determine that we violated or breached the CIA or other federal
    or state laws relating to Medicare, Medicaid or similar
    programs, we could be subject to substantial monetary fines,
    civil and criminal penaltiesand/orexclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
    programs and other federal and state health care programs.
    Alleged violations may be pursued by the government or through
    privatequi tamactions. Sanctions imposed against us as
    a result of such actions could have a material, adverse effect
    on our results of operations and financial position.



Health
    Care Reform



As enacted, the Health Reform Law will change how health care
    services are covered, delivered and reimbursed through expanded
    coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in Medicare
    program spending, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid DSH
    payments, and the establishment of programs where reimbursement
    is tied to quality and integration. In addition, the law reforms
    certain aspects of health insurance, expands existing efforts to
    tie Medicare and Medicaid payments to performance and quality,
    and contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse
    enforcement. More than 20 challenges to the Health Reform Law
    have been filed in federal courts. Some federal district courts
    have upheld the constitutionality of the Health Reform Law or
    dismissed cases on procedural grounds. Others have held
    unconstitutional the requirement that individuals maintain
    health insurance or pay a penalty and have either found the
    Health Reform Law void in its entirety or left the remainder of
    the Health Reform Law intact. These lawsuits are subject to
    appeal, and several are currently on appeal, including those
    that hold the law unconstitutional. It is unclear how these
    lawsuits will be resolved. Further, Congress is considering
    bills that would repeal or revise the Health Reform Law.



Expanded
    Coverage



Based on CBO and CMS estimates, by 2019, the Health Reform Law
    will expand coverage to 32 to 34 million additional
    individuals (resulting in coverage of an estimated 94% of the
    legal U.S. population). This increased coverage will occur
    through a combination of public program expansion and private
    sector health insurance and other reforms.



Medicaid
    Expansion



The primary public program coverage expansion will occur through
    changes in Medicaid, and to a lesser extent, expansion of the
    Children’s Health Insurance Program (“CHIP”). The
    most significant changes will expand the categories of
    individuals eligible for Medicaid coverage and permit
    individuals with relatively higher incomes to qualify. The
    federal government reimburses the majority of a state’s
    Medicaid expenses, and it conditions its payment on the state
    meeting certain requirements. The federal government currently
    requires that states provide coverage for only limited
    categories of low-income adults under 65 years old (e.g.,
    women who are pregnant, and the blind or disabled). In addition,
    the income level required for individuals and families to
    qualify for Medicaid varies widely from state to state.



The Health Reform Law materially changes the requirements for
    Medicaid eligibility. Commencing January 1, 2014, all state
    Medicaid programs are required to provide, and the federal
    government will subsidize, Medicaid coverage to virtually all
    adults under 65 years old with incomes at or under 133% of
    the federal poverty level (“FPL”). This expansion will
    create a minimum Medicaid eligibility threshold that is uniform
    across states. Further, the Health Reform Law also requires
    states to apply a “5% income disregard” to the
    Medicaid eligibility standard, so that Medicaid eligibility will
    effectively be extended to those with incomes up to 138% of the
    FPL. These new eligibility requirements will expand Medicaid and
    CHIP coverage by an estimated 16 to 18 million persons
    nationwide. A disproportionately large percentage of the new
    Medicaid coverage is likely to be in states that currently have
    relatively low income eligibility requirements.



As Medicaid is a joint federal and state program, the federal
    government provides states with “matching funds” in a
    defined percentage, known as the federal medical assistance
    percentage (“FMAP”). Beginning in 2014, states will
    receive an enhanced FMAP for the individuals enrolled in
    Medicaid pursuant to the Health Reform Law. The FMAP percentage
    is as follows: 100% for calendar years 2014 through 2016; 95%
    for 2017; 94% in 2018; 93% in 2019; and 90% in 2020 and
    thereafter.



The Health Reform Law also provides that the federal government
    will subsidize states that create non- Medicaid plans for
    residents whose incomes are greater than 133% of the FPL but do
    not exceed 200% of the FPL.





Approved state plans will be eligible to receive federal
    funding. The amount of that funding per individual will be equal
    to 95% of subsidies that would have been provided for that
    individual had he or she enrolled in a health plan offered
    through one of the Exchanges, as discussed below.



Historically, states often have attempted to reduce Medicaid
    spending by limiting benefits and tightening Medicaid
    eligibility requirements. Effective March 23, 2010, the
    Health Reform Law requires states to at least maintain Medicaid
    eligibility standards established prior to the enactment of the
    law for adults until January 1, 2014 and for children until
    October 1, 2019. States with budget deficits may, however,
    seek a waiver from this requirement, but only to address
    eligibility standards that apply to adults making more than 133%
    of the FPL.



Private
    Sector Expansion



The expansion of health coverage through the private sector as a
    result of the Health Reform Law will occur through new
    requirements on health insurers, employers and individuals.
    Commencing January 1, 2014, health insurance companies will
    be prohibited from imposing annual coverage limits, dropping
    coverage, excluding persons based upon pre-existing conditions
    or denying coverage for any individual who is willing to pay the
    premiums for such coverage. Effective January 1, 2011, each
    health plan must keep its annual nonmedical costs lower than 15%
    of premium revenue for the group market and lower than 20% in
    the small group and individual markets or rebate its enrollees
    the amount spent in excess of the percentage. In addition,
    effective September 23, 2010, health insurers will not be
    permitted to deny coverage to children based upon a pre-existing
    condition and must allow dependent care coverage for children up
    to 26 years old.



Larger employers will be subject to new requirements and
    incentives to provide health insurance benefits to their full
    time employees. Effective January 1, 2014, employers with
    50 or more employees that do not offer health insurance will be
    held subject to a penalty if an employee obtains coverage
    through an Exchange if the coverage is subsidized by the
    government. The employer penalties will range from $2,000 to
    $3,000 per employee, subject to certain thresholds and
    conditions.



As enacted, the Health Reform Law uses various means to induce
    individuals who do not have health insurance to obtain coverage.
    By January 1, 2014, individuals will be required to
    maintain health insurance for a minimum defined set of benefits
    or pay a tax penalty. The penalty in most cases is $95 in 2014,
    $325 in 2015, $695 in 2016, and indexed to a cost of living
    adjustment in subsequent years. The Internal Revenue Service
    (“IRS”), in consultation with HHS, is responsible for
    enforcing the tax penalty, although the Health Reform Law limits
    the availability of certain IRS enforcement mechanisms. In
    addition, for individuals and families below 400% of the FPL,
    the cost of obtaining health insurance through the Exchanges
    will be subsidized by the federal government. Those with lower
    incomes will be eligible to receive greater subsidies. It is
    anticipated that those at the lowest income levels will have the
    majority of their premiums subsidized by the federal government,
    in some cases in excess of 95% of the premium amount.







cover 100% of the amount of medical expenses in excess of the
    deductible/co-payment limit. For example, an individual making
    100% to 200% of the FPL will have co-payments and deductibles
    reduced to about one-third of the amount payable by those with
    the same plan with incomes at or above 400% of the FPL.



Public
    Program Spending



The Health Reform Law provides for Medicare, Medicaid and other
    federal health care program spending reductions between 2010 and
    2019. The CBO estimates that these will include
    $156 billion in Medicarefee-for-servicemarket basket and productivity reimbursement reductions for all
    providers, the majority of which will come from hospitals; CMS
    sets this estimate at $233 billion. The CBO estimates also
    include an additional $36 billion in reductions of Medicare
    and Medicaid disproportionate share funding ($22 billion
    for Medicare and $14 billion for Medicaid). CMS estimates
    include an additional $64 billion in reductions of Medicare
    and Medicaid disproportionate share funding, with
    $50 billion of the reductions coming from Medicare.



Payments
    for Hospitals and Ambulatory Surgery Centers



Inpatient Market Basket and Productivity
    Adjustment.Under the Medicare program,
    hospitals receive reimbursement under a PPS for general, acute
    care hospital inpatient services. CMS establishes fixed PPS
    payment amounts per inpatient discharge based on the
    patient’s assigned MS-DRG. These MS-DRG rates are updated
    each federal fiscal year, which begins October 1, using a
    market basket index that takes into account inflation
    experienced by hospitals and other entities outside the health
    care industry in purchasing goods and services.



The Health Reform Law provides for three types of annual
    reductions in the market basket. The first is a general
    reduction of a specified percentage each federal fiscal year
    starting in 2010 and extending through 2019. These reductions
    are as follows: federal fiscal year 2010, 0.25% for discharges
    occurring on or after April 1, 2010; 2011 (0.25%); 2012
    (0.1%); 2013 (0.1%); 2014 (0.3%); 2015 (0.2%); 2016 (0.2%); 2017
    (0.75%); 2018 (0.75%); and 2019 (0.75%).



The second type of reduction to the market basket is a
    “productivity adjustment” that will be implemented by
    HHS beginning in federal fiscal year 2012. The amount of that
    reduction will be the projected nationwide productivity gains
    over the preceding 10 years. To determine the projection,
    HHS will use the BLS10-yearmoving average of changes in specified economy-wide productivity
    (the BLS data is typically a few years old). The Health Reform
    Law does not contain guidelines for HHS to use in projecting the
    productivity figure. Based upon the latest available data,
    federal fiscal year 2012 market basket reductions resulting from
    this productivity adjustment are likely to range from 1% to 1.4%.



The third type of reduction is in connection with the
    value-based purchasing program discussed in more detail below.
    Beginning in federal fiscal year 2013, CMS will reduce the
    inpatient PPS payment amount for all discharges by the
    following: 1% for 2013; 1.25% for 2014; 1.5% for 2015; 1.75% for
    2016; and 2% for 2017 and subsequent years. For each federal
    fiscal year, the total amount collected from these reductions
    will be pooled and used to fund payments to hospitals that
    satisfy certain quality metrics. While some or all of these
    reductions may be recovered if a hospital satisfies these
    quality metrics, the recovery amounts may be delayed.



If the aggregate of the three market basket reductions described
    above is more than the annual market basket adjustments made to
    account for inflation, there will be a reduction in the MS-DRG
    rates paid to hospitals. For example, for the federal fiscal
    year 2011 hospital inpatient PPS, the market basket increase to
    account for inflation is 2.6% and the aggregate reduction due to
    the Health Reform Law and the documentation and coding
    adjustment is 3.15%. Thus, the rates paid to a hospital for
    inpatient services in federal fiscal year 2011 will be 0.55%
    less than rates paid for the same services in the prior year.



Quality-Based Payment Adjustments and Reductions for
    Inpatient Services.The Health Reform Law
    establishes or expands three provisions to promote value-based
    purchasing and to link payments to quality and efficiency.
    First, in federal fiscal year 2013, HHS is directed to implement
    a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital
    services. This program will reward hospitals that meet certain
    quality performance standards established by HHS. The Health
    Reform Law provides HHS considerable discretion over the
    value-based purchasing program. For example, HHS will determine
    the quality performance measures, the standards hospitals







Second, beginning in federal fiscal year 2013, inpatient
    payments will be reduced if a hospital experiences
    “excessive readmissions” within a time period
    specified by HHS from the date of discharge for heart attack,
    heart failure, pneumonia or other conditions designated by HHS.
    Hospitals with what HHS defines as “excessive
    readmissions” for these conditions will receive reduced
    payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges
    relating to the conditions subject to the excessive readmission
    standard. Each hospital’s performance will be publicly
    reported by HHS. HHS has the discretion to determine what
    “excessive readmissions” means and other terms and
    conditions of this program.



Third, reimbursement will be reduced based on a facility’s
    HAC rates. An HAC is a condition that is acquired by a patient
    while admitted as an inpatient in a hospital, such as a surgical
    site infection. Beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, the 25%
    of hospitals with the worst national risk-adjusted HAC rates in
    the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total
    inpatient operating Medicare payments. In addition, effective
    July 1, 2011, the Health Reform Law prohibits the use of
    federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers
    for medical services provided to treat HACs.



Outpatient Market Basket and Productivity
    Adjustment.Hospital outpatient services paid
    under PPS are classified into APCs. The APC payment rates are
    updated each calendar year based on the market basket. The first
    two market basket changes outlined above — the general
    reduction and the productivity adjustment — apply to
    outpatient services as well as inpatient services, although
    these are applied on a calendar year basis. The percentage
    changes specified in the Health Reform Law summarized above as
    the general reduction for inpatients — e.g., 0.2% in
    2015 — are the same for outpatients.



Medicare and Medicaid DSH Payments.The
    Medicare DSH program provides for additional payments to
    hospitals that treat a disproportionate share of low-income
    patients. Under the Health Reform Law, beginning in federal
    fiscal year 2014, Medicare DSH payments will be reduced to 25%
    of the amount they otherwise would have been absent the law. The
    remaining 75% of the amount that would otherwise be paid under
    Medicare DSH will be effectively pooled, and this pool will be
    reduced further each year by a formula that reflects reductions
    in the national level of uninsured who are under 65 years
    of age. In other words, the greater the level of coverage for
    the uninsured nationally, the more the Medicare DSH payment pool
    will be reduced. Each hospital will then be paid, out of the
    reduced DSH payment pool, an amount allocated based upon its
    level of uncompensated care.



It is difficult to predict the full impact of the Medicare DSH
    reductions, and CBO and CMS estimates differ by
    $38 billion. The Health Reform Law does not mandate what
    data source HHS must use to determine the reduction, if any, in
    the uninsured population nationally. In addition, the Health
    Reform Law does not contain a definition of “uncompensated
    care.” As a result, it is unclear how a hospital’s
    share of the Medicare DSH payment pool will be calculated. CMS
    could use the definition of “uncompensated care” used
    in connection with hospital cost reports.





However, in July 2009, CMS proposed material revisions to the
    definition of “uncompensated care” used for cost
    report purposes. Those revisions would exclude certain
    significant costs that had historically been covered, such as
    unreimbursed costs of Medicaid services. CMS has not issued a
    final rule, and the Health Reform Law does not require HHS to
    use this definition, even if finalized, for DSH purposes. How
    CMS ultimately defines “uncompensated care” for
    purposes of these DSH funding provisions could have a material
    effect on a hospital’s Medicare DSH reimbursements.



In addition to Medicare DSH funding, hospitals that provide care
    to a disproportionately high number of low-income patients may
    receive Medicaid DSH payments. The federal government
    distributes federal Medicaid DSH funds to each state based on a
    statutory formula. The states then distribute the DSH funding
    among qualifying hospitals. Although federal Medicaid law
    defines some level of hospitals that must receive Medicaid DSH
    funding, states have broad discretion to define additional
    hospitals that also may qualify for Medicaid DSH payments and
    the amount of such payments. The Health Reform Law will reduce
    funding for the Medicaid DSH hospital program in federal fiscal
    years 2014 through 2020 by the following amounts: 2014
    ($500 million); 2015 ($600 million); 2016
    ($600 million); 2017 ($1.8 billion); 2018
    ($5 billion); 2019 ($5.6 billion); and 2020
    ($4 billion). How such cuts are allocated among the states,
    and how the states allocate these cuts among providers, have yet
    to be determined.



ACOs.



Bundled Payment Pilot Programs.



Ambulatory Surgery Centers.The Health
    Reform Law reduces reimbursement for ASCs through a productivity
    adjustment to the market basket similar to the productivity
    adjustment for inpatient and outpatient hospital services,
    beginning in federal fiscal year 2011.



Medicare Managed Care (Medicare Advantage or
    “MA”).Under the MA program, the
    federal government contracts with private health plans to
    provide inpatient and outpatient benefits to beneficiaries who
    enroll in such plans. Nationally, approximately 22% of Medicare
    beneficiaries have elected to enroll in MA plans. Effective in
    2014, the Health Reform Law requires MA plans to keep annual
    administrative costs lower than 15% of annual





premium revenue. The Health Reform Law reduces, over a three
    year period, premium payments to the MA plans such that
    CMS’ managed care per capita premium payments are, on
    average, equal to traditional Medicare. In addition, the Health
    Reform Law implements fee payment adjustments based on service
    benchmarks and quality ratings. As a result of these changes,
    payments to MA plans are estimated to be reduced by $138 to
    $145 billion between 2010 and 2019. These reductions to MA
    plan premium payments may cause some plans to raise premiums or
    limit benefits, which in turn might cause some Medicare
    beneficiaries to terminate their MA coverage and enroll in
    traditional Medicare.



Specialty
    Hospital Limitations



Over the last decade, we have faced significant competition from
    hospitals that have physician ownership. The Health Reform Law
    prohibits newly created physician-owned hospitals from billing
    for Medicare patients referred by their physician owners. As a
    result, the law effectively prevents the formation of new
    physician-owned hospitals after December 31, 2010. While
    the law grandfathers existing physician-owned hospitals, it does
    not allow these hospitals to increase the percentage of
    physician ownership and significantly restricts their ability to
    expand services.



Program
    Integrity and Fraud and Abuse



The Health Reform Law makes several significant changes to
    health care fraud and abuse laws, provides additional
    enforcement tools to the government, increases cooperation
    between agencies by establishing mechanisms for the sharing of
    information and enhances criminal and administrative penalties
    for non-compliance. For example, the Health Reform Law:
    (1) provides $350 million in increased federal funding
    over the next 10 years to fight health care fraud, waste
    and abuse; (2) expands the scope of the RAC program to
    include MA plans and Medicaid; (3) authorizes HHS, in
    consultation with the OIG, to suspend Medicare and Medicaid
    payments to a provider of services or a supplier “pending
    an investigation of a credible allegation of fraud;”
    (4) provides Medicare contractors with additional
    flexibility to conduct random prepayment reviews; and
    (5) tightens up the rules for returning overpayments made
    by governmental health programs and expands FCA liability to
    include failure to timely repay identified overpayments.



Impact of
    Health Reform Law on the Company



The expansion of health insurance coverage under the Health
    Reform Law may result in a material increase in the number of
    patients using our facilities who have either private or public
    program coverage. In addition, a disproportionately large
    percentage of the new Medicaid coverage is likely to be in
    states that currently have relatively low income eligibility
    requirements. Two such states are Texas and Florida, where about
    one-half of the Company’s licensed beds are located. We
    also have a significant presence in other relatively low income
    eligibility states, including Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana,
    Missouri, Oklahoma and Virginia. Further, the Health Reform Law
    provides for a value-based purchasing program, the establishment
    of ACOs and bundled payment pilot programs, which will create
    possible sources of additional revenue.



However, it is difficult to predict the size of the potential
    revenue gains to the Company as a result of these elements of
    the Health Reform Law, because of uncertainty surrounding a
    number of material factors, including the following:



•how many previously uninsured individuals will obtain coverage
    as a result of the Health Reform Law (while the CBO estimates
    32 million, CMS estimates almost 34 million; both
    agencies made a number of assumptions to derive that figure,
    including how many individuals will ignore substantial subsidies
    and decide to pay the penalty rather than obtain health
    insurance and what percentage of people in the future will meet
    the new Medicaid income eligibility requirements);•what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered
    under the Medicaid program and what percentage will be covered
    by private health insurers;•the extent to which states will enroll new Medicaid participants
    in managed care programs;•the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace
    of different types of coverage expansion;









•the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient
    hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously
    uninsured individuals;



•the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered
    individuals, including those covered through the newly created
    Exchanges and those who might be covered under the Medicaid
    program under contracts with the state;



•the rate paid by state governments under the Medicaid program
    for newly covered individuals;



•how the value-based purchasing and other quality programs will
    be implemented;



•the percentage of individuals in the Exchanges who select the
    high deductible plans, since health insurers offering those
    kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates
    to hospitals;



•whether the net effect of the Health Reform Law, including the
    prohibition on excluding individuals based on pre-existing
    conditions, the requirement to keep medical costs at or above a
    specified minimum percentage of premium revenue, other health
    insurance reforms and the annual fee applied to all health
    insurers, will be to put pressure on the bottom line of health
    insurers, which in turn might cause them to seek to reduce
    payments to hospitals with respect to both newly insured
    individuals and their existing business; and



•the possibility that implementation of the provisions expanding
    health insurance coverage or the entire Health Reform Law will
    be delayed due to court challenges or revised or eliminated as a
    result of court challenges and efforts to repeal or amend the
    law. More than 20 challenges to the Health Reform Law have been
    filed in federal courts. Some federal district courts have
    upheld the constitutionality of the Health Reform Law or
    dismissed cases on procedural grounds. Others have held
    unconstitutional the requirement that individuals maintain
    health insurance or pay a penalty and have either found the
    entire Health Reform Law void in its entirety or left the
    remainder of the Health Reform Law intact. These lawsuits are
    subject to appeal, and several are currently on appeal,
    including those that hold the law unconstitutional.



On the other hand, the Health Reform Law provides for
    significant reductions in the growth of Medicare spending,
    reductions in Medicare and Medicaid DSH payments and the
    establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality
    and integration. Since 40.7% of our revenues in 2010 were from
    Medicare and Medicaid, reductions to these programs may
    significantly impact the Company and could offset any positive
    effects of the Health Reform Law. It is difficult to predict the
    size of the revenue reductions to Medicare and Medicaid
    spending, because of uncertainty regarding a number of material
    factors, including the following:



•the amount of overall revenues the Company will generate from
    Medicare and Medicaid business when the reductions are
    implemented;•whether reductions required by the Health Reform Law will be
    changed by statute or by judicial decision prior to becoming
    effective;•the size of the Health Reform Law’s annual productivity
    adjustment to the market basket beginning in 2012 payment years;•the amount of the Medicare DSH reductions that will be made,
    commencing in federal fiscal year 2014;•the allocation to our hospitals of the Medicaid DSH reductions,
    commencing in federal fiscal year 2014;•what the losses in revenues will be, if any, from the Health
    Reform Law’s quality initiatives;•how successful ACOs, in which we anticipate participating, will
    be at coordinating care and reducing costs or whether they will
    decrease reimbursement;•the scope and nature of potential changes to Medicare
    reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments
    or coordination of care programs;







•whether the Company’s revenues from upper payment limit
    (“UPL”) programs will be adversely affected, because
    there may be fewer indigent, non-Medicaid patients for whom the
    Company provides services pursuant to UPL programs; and•reductions to Medicare payments CMS may impose for
    “excessive readmissions.”



Because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict
    the net effect on the Company of the expected increases in
    insured individuals using our facilities, the reductions in
    Medicare spending and reductions in Medicare and Medicaid DSH
    Funding, and numerous other provisions in the Health Reform Law
    that may affect the Company. Further, it is unclear how efforts
    to repeal or revise the Health Reform Law and federal lawsuits
    challenging its constitutionality will be resolved or what the
    impact would be of any resulting changes to the law.



General
    Economic and Demographic Factors





The health care industry is impacted by the overall United
    States economy. The federal deficit, the growing magnitude of
    Medicare expenditures and the aging of the United States
    population will continue to place pressure on federal health
    care programs.



Compliance
    Program



We maintain a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that
    is designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and
    industry standards. The program is intended to monitor and raise
    awareness of various regulatory issues among employees and to
    emphasize the importance of complying with governmental laws and
    regulations. As part of the ethics and compliance program, we
    provide annual ethics and compliance training to our employees
    and encourage all employees to report any violations to their
    supervisor, an ethics and compliance officer or a toll-free
    telephone ethics line. The Health Reform Law requires providers
    to implement core elements of compliance program criteria to be
    established by HHS, on a timeline to be established by HHS, as a
    condition of enrollment in the Medicare or Medicaid programs,
    and we may have to modify our compliance programs to comply with
    these new criteria.



Antitrust
    Laws



The federal government and most states have enacted antitrust
    laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be
    anti-competitive. These laws prohibit price fixing, concerted
    refusal to deal, market monopolization, price discrimination,
    tying arrangements, acquisitions of competitors and other
    practices that have, or may have, an adverse effect on
    competition. Violations of federal or state antitrust laws can
    result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil
    penalties. Antitrust enforcement in the health care industry is
    currently a priority of the Federal Trade Commission. We believe
    we are in compliance with such federal and state laws, but
    courts or regulatory authorities may reach a determination in
    the future that could adversely affect our operations.





Environmental
    Matters



We are subject to various federal, state and local statutes and
    ordinances regulating the discharge of materials into the
    environment. We do not believe that we will be required to
    expend any material amounts in order to comply with these laws
    and regulations.



Insurance



As is typical in the health care industry, we are subject to
    claims and legal actions by patients in the ordinary course of
    business. Subject to a $5 million per occurrence
    self-insured retention, our facilities are insured by our
    wholly-owned insurance subsidiary for losses up to
    $50 million per occurrence. The insurance subsidiary has
    obtained reinsurance for professional liability risks generally
    above a retention level of $15 million per occurrence. We
    also maintain professional liability insurance with unrelated
    commercial carriers for losses in excess of amounts insured by
    our insurance subsidiary.



We purchase, from unrelated insurance companies, coverage for
    directors and officers liability and property loss in amounts we
    believe are adequate. The directors and officers liability
    coverage includes a $25 million corporate deductible for
    the period prior to the Recapitalization and a $1 million
    corporate deductible subsequent to the Recapitalization. In
    addition, we will continue to purchase coverage for our
    directors and officers on an ongoing basis. The property
    coverage includes varying deductibles depending on the cause of
    the property damage. These deductibles range from $500,000 per
    claim up to 5% of the affected property values for certain flood
    and wind and earthquake related incidents.



Employees
    and Medical Staffs



At December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    194,000 employees, including approximately
    48,000 part-time employees. References herein to
    “employees” refer to employees of our affiliates. We
    are subject to various state and federal laws that regulate
    wages, hours, benefits and other terms and conditions relating
    to employment. At December 31, 2010, employees at 32 of our
    hospitals are represented by various labor unions. It is
    possible additional hospitals may unionize in the future. We
    consider our employee relations to be good and have not
    experienced work stoppages that have materially, adversely
    affected our business or results of operations. Our hospitals,
    like most hospitals, have experienced labor costs rising faster
    than the general inflation rate. In some markets, nurse and
    medical support personnel availability has become a significant
    operating issue to health care providers. To address this
    challenge, we have implemented several initiatives to improve
    retention, recruiting, compensation programs and productivity.



Our hospitals are staffed by licensed physicians, who generally
    are not employees of our hospitals. However, some physicians
    provide services in our hospitals under contracts, which
    generally describe a term of service, provide and establish the
    duties and obligations of such physicians, require the
    maintenance of certain performance criteria and fix compensation
    for such services. Any licensed physician may apply to be
    accepted to the medical staff of any of our hospitals, but the
    hospital’s medical staff and the appropriate governing
    board of the hospital, in accordance with established
    credentialing criteria, must approve acceptance to the staff.
    Members of the medical staffs of our hospitals often also serve
    on the medical staffs of other hospitals and may terminate their
    affiliation with one of our hospitals at any time.



We may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to
    recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or
    to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. As a
    result, our labor costs could increase. We also depend on the
    available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in
    each of the markets in which we operate. Certain proposed
    changes in federal labor laws, including the Employee Free
    Choice Act, could increase the likelihood of employee
    unionization attempts. To the extent a significant portion of
    our employee base unionizes, our costs could increase
    materially. In addition, the states in which we operate could
    adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory
    nurse-staffing ratios already in place. State-mandated
    nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs,
    and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to
    limit patient admissions in order to meet the required ratios.





Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



As of February 11, 2011, our executive officers were as
    follows:



NameAgePosition(s)Richard M. Bracken58Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerR. Milton Johnson54President, Chief Financial Officer and DirectorDavid G. Anderson63Senior Vice President — Finance and TreasurerVictor L. Campbell64Senior Vice PresidentJana J. Davis52Senior Vice President — CommunicationsJon M. Foster49Group PresidentCharles J. Hall57Group PresidentSamuel N. Hazen50President — OperationsA. Bruce Moore, Jr.50Group President — Service Line and Operations
    IntegrationJonathan B. Perlin, M.D.49President — Clinical and Physician Services Group and
    Chief Medical OfficerW. Paul Rutledge56Group PresidentJoseph A. Sowell, III54Senior Vice President — DevelopmentJoseph N. Steakley56Senior Vice President — Internal Audit ServicesJohn M. Steele55Senior Vice President — Human ResourcesDonald W. Stinnett54Senior Vice President and ControllerJuan Vallarino50Senior Vice President — Strategic Pricing and AnalyticsBeverly B. Wallace60President — NewCo Business SolutionsRobert A. Waterman57Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Labor Relations
    OfficerNoel Brown Williams55Senior Vice President and Chief Information OfficerAlan R. Yuspeh61Senior Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer





Richard M. Brackenhas served as Chief Executive Officer
    of the Company since January 2009 and was appointed as Chairman
    of the Board in December 2009. Mr. Bracken served as
    President and Chief Executive Officer from January 2009 to
    December 2009. Mr. Bracken was appointed Chief Operating
    Officer in July 2001 and served as President and Chief Operating
    Officer from January 2002 to January 2009. Mr. Bracken
    served as President — Western Group of the Company
    from August 1997 until July 2001. From January 1995 to August
    1997, Mr. Bracken served as President of the Pacific
    Division of the Company. Prior to 1995, Mr. Bracken served
    in various hospital Chief Executive Officer and Administrator
    positions with HCA-Hospital Corporation of America.



R. Milton Johnsonhas served as President and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Company since February 2011 and was
    appointed as a director in December 2009. Mr. Johnson
    served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
    from July 2004 to February 2011 and as Senior Vice President and
    Controller of the Company from July 1999 until July 2004.
    Mr. Johnson served as Vice President and Controller of the
    Company from November 1998 to July 1999. Prior to that time,
    Mr. Johnson served as Vice President — Tax of the
    Company from April 1995 to October 1998. Prior to that time,
    Mr. Johnson served as Director of Tax for Healthtrust,
    Inc. — The Hospital Company from September 1987 to
    April 1995.



David G. Andersonhas served as Senior Vice
    President — Finance and Treasurer of the Company since
    July 1999. Mr. Anderson served as Vice President
    — Finance of the Company from September 1993 to July
    1999 and was appointed to the additional position of Treasurer
    in November 1996. From March 1993 until September 1993,
    Mr. Anderson served as Vice President — Finance
    and Treasurer of Galen Health Care, Inc. From July 1988 to March
    1993, Mr. Anderson served as Vice President —
    Finance and Treasurer of Humana Inc.





Victor L. Campbellhas served as Senior Vice President of
    the Company since February 1994. Prior to that time,
    Mr. Campbell served as HCA-Hospital Corporation of
    America’s Vice President for Investor, Corporate and
    Government Relations. Mr. Campbell joined HCA-Hospital
    Corporation of America in 1972. Mr. Campbell serves on the
    board of the Nashville Health Care Council, as a member of the
    American Hospital Association’s President’s Forum, and
    on the board and Executive Committee of the Federation of
    American Hospitals.



Jana J. Daviswas appointed Senior Vice
    President — Communications in February 2011. Prior to
    that time, she served as Vice President of Communications for
    the Company from November 1997 to February 2011. Ms. Davis
    joined HCA in 1997 from Burson-Marsteller, where she was a
    Managing Director and served as Corporate Practice Chair for
    Latin American operations. Ms. Davis also held a number of
    Public Affairs positions in the George H.W. Bush and Reagan
    Administrations. Ms. Davis is an attorney and serves as
    chair of the Public Relations Committee for the Federation of
    American Hospitals.



Jon M. Fosterwas appointed Group President in February
    2011. Prior to that, Mr. Foster served as
    Division President for the Central and West Texas Division
    from January 2006 to February 2011. Mr. Foster joined HCA
    in March 2001 as President and CEO of St. David’s
    HealthCare in Austin, Texas and served in that position until
    February 2011. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Foster
    served in various executive capacities within the Baptist Health
    System, Knoxville, Tennessee and The Methodist Hospital System
    in Houston, Texas.



Charles J. Hallwas appointed Group President in October
    2006; his formal title prior to February 2011 was
    President — Eastern Group. Prior to that time,
    Mr. Hall had served as President — North Florida
    Division since April 2003. Mr. Hall had previously served
    the Company as President of the East Florida Division from
    January 1999 until April 2003, as a Market President in the East
    Florida Division from January 1998 until December 1998, as
    President of the South Florida Division from February 1996 until
    December 1997, and as President of the Southwest Florida
    Division from October 1994 until February 1996, and in various
    other capacities since 1987.



Samuel N. Hazenwas appointed President —
    Operations of the Company in February 2011. Mr. Hazen
    served as President — Western Group from July 2001 to
    February 2011 and as Chief Financial Officer — Western
    Group of the Company from August 1995 to July 2001.
    Mr. Hazen served as Chief Financial Officer —
    North Texas Division of the Company from February 1994 to July
    1995. Prior to that time, Mr. Hazen served in various
    hospital and regional Chief Financial Officer positions with
    Humana Inc. and Galen Health Care, Inc.



A. Bruce Moore, Jr.was appointed Group
    President — Service Line and Operations Integration in
    February 2011. Mr. Moore had served as
    President — Outpatient Services Group since January
    2006. Mr. Moore served as Senior Vice President and as
    Chief Operating Officer — Outpatient Services Group
    from July 2004 to January 2006 and as Senior Vice
    President — Operations Administration from July 1999
    until July 2004. Mr. Moore served as Vice
    President — Operations Administration of the Company
    from September 1997 to July 1999, as Vice President —
    Benefits from October 1996 to September 1997, and as Vice
    President — Compensation from March 1995 until October
    1996.



Dr. Jonathan B. Perlinwas appointed
    President — Clinical and Physician Services Group and
    Chief Medical Officer in February 2011. Dr. Perlin had
    served as President — Clinical Services Group and
    Chief Medical Officer from November 2007 to February 2011 and as
    Chief Medical Officer and Senior Vice President —
    Quality of the Company from August 2006 to November 2007. Prior
    to joining the Company, Dr. Perlin served as Under
    Secretary for Health in the U.S. Department of Veterans
    Affairs since April 2004. Dr. Perlin joined the Veterans
    Health Administration in November 1999 where he served in
    various capacities, including as Deputy Under Secretary for
    Health from July 2002 to April 2004, and as Chief Quality and
    Performance Officer from November 1999 to September 2002.



W. Paul Rutledgewas appointed as Group President in
    October 2005; his formal title prior to February 2011 was
    President — Central Group. Mr. Rutledge had
    served as President of the MidAmerica Division since January
    2001. He served as President of TriStar Health System from June
    1996 to January 2001 and served as President of Centennial
    Medical Center from May 1993 to June 1996. He has served in
    leadership capacities with HCA for more than 28 years,
    working with hospitals in the United States and London, England.



Joseph A. Sowell, IIIwas appointed as Senior Vice
    President and Chief Development Officer of the Company in
    December 2009. From 1987 to 1996 and again from 1999 to 2009,
    Mr. Sowell was a partner at the law firm of





Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis where he specialized in
    the areas of health care law, mergers and acquisitions, joint
    ventures, private equity financing, tax law and general
    corporate law. He also co-managed the firm’s corporate and
    commercial transactions practice. From 1996 to 1999,
    Mr. Sowell served as the head of development, and later as
    the Chief Operating Officer of Arcon Healthcare.



Joseph N. Steakleyhas served as Senior Vice
    President — Internal Audit Services of the Company
    since July 1999. Mr. Steakley served as Vice President
    — Internal Audit Services from November 1997 to July
    1999. From October 1989 until October 1997, Mr. Steakley
    was a partner with Ernst & Young LLP.
    Mr. Steakley is a member of the board of directors of J.
    Alexander’s Corporation, where he serves on the
    compensation committee and as chairman of the audit committee.



John M. Steelehas served as Senior Vice
    President — Human Resources of the Company since
    November 2003. Mr. Steele served as Vice
    President — Compensation and Recruitment of the
    Company from November 1997 to October 2003. From March 1995 to
    November 1997, Mr. Steele served as Assistant Vice
    President — Recruitment.



Donald W. Stinnetthas served as Senior Vice President
    and Controller since December 2008. Mr. Stinnett served as
    Chief Financial Officer — Eastern Group from October
    2005 to December 2008 and Chief Financial Officer of the Far
    West Division from July 1999 to October 2005. Mr. Stinnett
    served as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance
    of Franciscan Health System of the Ohio Valley from 1995 until
    1999, and served in various capacities with Franciscan Health
    System of Cincinnati and Providence Hospital in Cincinnati prior
    to that time.



Juan Vallarinowas appointed Senior Vice
    President — Strategic Pricing and Analytics in
    February 2011. Prior to that time, Mr. Vallarino had served
    as Vice President — Strategic Pricing and Analytics
    since October 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Vallarino served as
    Vice President of Managed Care for the Western Group of the
    Company from January 1998 to October 2006.



Beverly B. Wallacewas appointed President —
    NewCo Business Solutions in February 2011. From March 2006 until
    February 2011, Ms. Wallace served as President —
    Shared Services Group, and from January 2003 until March 2006,
    Ms. Wallace served as President — Financial
    Services Group. Ms. Wallace served as Senior Vice
    President — Revenue Cycle Operations Management of the
    Company from July 1999 to January 2003. Ms. Wallace served
    as Vice President — Managed Care of the Company from
    July 1998 to July 1999. From 1997 to 1998, Ms. Wallace
    served as President — Homecare Division of the
    Company. From 1996 to 1997, Ms. Wallace served as Chief
    Financial Officer — Nashville Division of the Company.
    From 1994 to 1996, Ms. Wallace served as Chief Financial
    Officer —Mid-AmericaDivision of the Company.



Robert A. Watermanhas served as Senior Vice President
    and General Counsel of the Company since November 1997 and Chief
    Labor Relations Officer since March 2009. Mr. Waterman
    served as a partner in the law firm of Latham &
    Watkins from September 1993 to October 1997; he was Chair of the
    firm’s health care group during 1997.



Noel Brown Williamshas served as Senior Vice President
    and Chief Information Officer of the Company since October 1997.
    From October 1996 to September 1997, Ms. Williams served as
    Chief Information Officer for American Service Group/Prison
    Health Services, Inc. From September 1995 to September 1996,
    Ms. Williams worked as an independent consultant. From June
    1993 to June 1995, Ms. Williams served as Vice President,
    Information Services for HCA Information Services. From February
    1979 to June 1993, she held various positions with HCA-Hospital
    Corporation of America Information Services.



Alan R. Yuspehhas served as Senior Vice President and
    Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer of the Company since May
    2007. From October 1997 to May 2007, Mr. Yuspeh served as
    Senior Vice President — Ethics, Compliance and
    Corporate Responsibility of the Company. From September 1991
    until October 1997, Mr. Yuspeh was a partner with the law
    firm of Howrey & Simon. As a part of his law practice,
    Mr. Yuspeh served from 1987 to 1997 as Coordinator of the
    Defense Industry Initiative on Business Ethics and Conduct.





