Item 1.Business.

Who We Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated provides enabling technologies for industrial growth markets. We have evolved from a company that was
primarily focused on aerospace and defense to one that serves multiple markets that require advanced technology and high reliability. These markets include deepwater oil and gas exploration and production, oceanographic research, air and water
quality environmental monitoring, factory automation and medical imaging. Our products include monitoring instrumentation for marine and environmental applications, harsh environment interconnects, digital imaging sensors and cameras, aircraft
information management systems, and defense electronic and satellite communication subsystems. We also supply engineered systems for defense, space, environmental and nuclear applications. We differentiate ourselves from many of our direct
competitors by having a customer and company sponsored applied research center that augments our product development expertise.

Total sales in 2011 were $1,941.9 million, compared with $1,644.2 million in 2010 and $1,652.1 million in 2009. Our aggregate
segment operating profit and other segment income were $260.9 million in 2011, $207.3 million in 2010 and $198.7 million in 2009. Approximately 64% of our total sales in 2011 were to commercial customers and the balance was to the
U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or subcontractor. Approximately 60% of these U.S. Government sales were attributable to fixed-price type contracts and the balance to cost plus fee-type contracts. Sales to international customers
accounted for approximately 36% of total sales in 2011. These amounts exclude discontinued operations.

Our businesses are
divided into four business segments; namely, Instrumentation, Digital Imaging, Aerospace and Defense Electronics and Engineered Systems. Our four business segments and their respective percentage contributions to our total sales in 2011, 2010 and
2009 are summarized in the following table:



Percentage of SalesSegment201120102009Instrumentation32%35%32%Digital Imaging18%8%8%Aerospace and Defense Electronics34%37%35%Engineered Systems16%20%25%Total100%100%100%

Our principal executive offices are located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360-2362.
Our telephone number is (805) 373-4545. We are a Delaware corporation that was spun-off as an independent company from Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated (now known as Allegheny Technologies Incorporated) on November 29, 1999.

Strategy

Our strategy
continues to emphasize growth in our core markets of instrumentation, digital imaging, aerospace and defense electronics and engineered systems. Our core markets are characterized by high barriers to entry and include specialized products and
services not likely to be commoditized. We intend to strengthen and expand our core businesses with targeted acquisitions and through product development. We aggressively pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins and earnings.
At Teledyne, operational excellence includes the rapid integration of the businesses we acquire. Using complementary technology across our businesses and internal research and development, we seek to create new products to grow our company and
expand our addressable markets. We continue to evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.







Our Recent Acquisitions

Consistent with our strategy, on February l2, 2011, we completed Teledyne’s largest acquisition to date which broadened our digital imaging capabilities, markets and customers. We acquired
Canadian-based DALSA Corporation (“DALSA”), a designer and manufacturer of digital image capture products, primarily consisting of high performance sensors, cameras and software for use in industrial, scientific, medical and professional
applications products. DALSA also manufactures MEMS (micro electro mechanical systems) devices and specialty semiconductors.

In addition, in the first quarter of 2011, to further expand our digital imaging capabilities, we acquired a majority interest in Nova
Sensors (“Nova”) located in Solvang, California, and a minority interest in Optech Incorporated (“Optech”) headquartered in Vaughan, Ontario, Canada. Nova produces compact short-wave and mid-wave infrared cameras. Optech is a
laser-based survey and digital imaging company.

Teledyne spent $363.5 million on these 2011 acquisitions.

Our Recent Divestiture

In accordance with our strategy to evaluate and divest non-core businesses, on April 19, 2011, we completed the divestiture of our
general aviation piston engine businesses, Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc. and Teledyne Mattituck Services, Inc., in a stock sale to Technify Motor (USA), Inc., a subsidiary of China-based AVIC International Holding Corporation, for $186 million
in cash.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, any Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, are available on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC also maintains a website that contains these reports atwww.sec.gov. In addition, our
Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Corporate Objectives and Guidelines for Employee Conduct, our codes of ethics for financial executives, directors and service providers and the charters of the standing committees of our Board of Directors are
available on our website. Our website address iswww.teledyne.com.

You will be responsible for any costs normally
associated with electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges. Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC report (without exhibits) or document, please write to John T. Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360-2362, and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you, free-of-charge.

Our Business Segments

Our businesses are divided into four segments:
Instrumentation; Digital Imaging; Aerospace and Defense Electronics; and Engineered Systems. Financial information about our business segments can be found in Note 13 to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Instrumentation

Our Instrumentation segment provides measurement, monitoring and control instruments for marine, environmental, scientific and industrial applications. We also provide power and communications
connectivity devices for distributed instrumentation systems and sensor networks deployed in mission critical, harsh environments.

Marine Instrumentation

We offer a variety of underwater acoustic and other
monitoring products. We design and manufacture geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and specialty products used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to locate oil and gas reserves beneath the ocean floor. Our acoustic Doppler current profilers
(“ADCPs”) precisely measure currents at varying depths in oceans and rivers, and our Doppler Velocity Logs (“DVLs”) are used for navigation by civilian and military surface ships, unmanned underwater vehicles and naval divers.
Additionally,







we design and manufacture hydrographic survey instrumentation used in port surveys, dredging, pre and post-installation of offshore energy infrastructure and other challenging underwater
applications. We recently developed a commercial multibeam echo sounder that incorporates a unique 24-bit analog to digital conversion process. We have been working to develop permanent reservoir monitoring subsystems for deepwater applications. In
addition to our DVLs, which are acoustic navigation devices, we design and manufacture inertial sensing and navigation products, as well as subsea pipe and cable detection systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

We provide a broad range of end-to-end undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas, naval defense,
oceanographic and telecom markets. We manufacture subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems and subsea pressure vessel penetrators and connector systems with glass-to-metal seals. Our water-proof and splash-proof neoprene
and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable assemblies are used in underwater equipment and submerged monitoring systems. We also manufacture subsea and surface pipeline corrosion and erosion monitoring detectors as well as flow integrity
monitoring solutions for the oil and gas industry. These flow assurance sensors and equipment rely on our wet-mateable interconnect systems and our sensor feed-through systems. Our Teledyne Oil & Gas group has collaborated with Teledyne
Scientific Company in an effort to improve the reliability of materials exposed to ultra deep sea conditions. In September 2011, we were awarded a development contract to design and deliver a subsea high-power electrical interconnect system for a
deepwater oil field in Brazil.

We offer a variety of marine instrumentation products used by the U.S. Navy
and in energy exploration, oceanographic research and port and harbor security services. Our products include acoustic modems for networked underwater communication and sidescan and sub-bottom profiling sonar systems. Originally developed with our
acoustic technology, we provide quality control and package integrity systems under the Taptone®brand to the
food and beverage, personal care and pharmaceutical industries. We also manufacture complete autonomous underwater vehicle systems. Our marine gliders use a silent buoyancy engine for propulsion that takes advantage of changes in buoyancy in
conjunction with wings and tail steering to convert vertical motion to horizontal displacement, thereby propelling the system on a programmed route with very low power consumption. Glider applications range from oceanographic research to military
persistent surveillance systems as part of a mobile underwater sensing and communication network. The modular design of our battery-powered, man-portable Gavia™autonomous underwater vehicle allows for rapid sensor bay reconfiguration and battery replacement capability. Our Slocum gliders, as well as our ADCPs, are being
used as part of the National Science Foundation’s Ocean Observatories Initiative to collect physical, chemical, geological and biological data from the ocean and the seafloor on coastal, regional and global scales.

Environmental Instrumentation

We offer a wide range of products for environmental monitoring. Our instrumentation monitors trace levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxide, methane and
ozone in order to measure the quality of the air we breathe. We also supply environmental monitoring systems for the detection, measurement and automated reporting of air pollutants from industrial stack emissions. We serve the process control and
monitoring needs of industrial plants with instruments that include gas analyzers, vacuum and flow measurement devices, package integrity inspection systems and torque measurement sensors. While we were a pioneer in the development of precision
trace oxygen analyzers, we now manufacture a wide range of process gas and liquid analysis products for the measurement of process contaminants, hydrocarbons, combustibles, oil-in-water, moisture, pH and many other parameters. Our instrumentation is
also used to detect a variety of water quality parameters. Our custom analyzer systems provide turn-key solutions to complex process monitoring and/or control applications found in petrochemical and refinery facilities. Our broad line of instruments
for precise measurement and control of vacuum and gas flow are used in varied applications such as semiconductor manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and food processing.

We provide laboratory instrumentation that complements our process or field environmental instrumentation. We manufacture laboratory instrumentation that automates the preparation and concentration of
organic samples for the analysis of trace levels of volatile organic compounds by a gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer. We also provide laboratory instrumentation for the detection of total organic carbon and total







nitrogen in water and wastewater samples. In addition, we provide inductively coupled plasma laboratory spectrometers, atomic absorption spectrometers, mercury analyzers and calibration
standards. The advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other environmental and geological samples. Our high
precision, high pressure syringe pumps measure process extraction rates of fluids ranging from liquefied gases to viscous tars. Plus, we manufacture liquid chromatography instruments and accessories for the purification of organic compounds. Our
liquid chromatography customers include pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and development.

Digital Imaging

Our Digital Imaging segment includes digital image capture products, primarily consisting of high performance sensors,
cameras and software for use in industrial, scientific, medical and professional applications products, specialty semiconductors and MEMS, and infrared detectors, cameras and optomechanical assemblies. It also includes our sponsored and centralized
research laboratories benefiting government programs and businesses, as well as major development efforts for innovative digital imaging products for government and space applications.

With the February 12, 2011 acquisition of DALSA, we have expanded our imaging products and solutions capabilities and customer base.
We now design, develop and manufacture image capture products, primarily consisting of high performance image sensors and digital cameras for use in industrial, scientific, medical and professional applications. We also now design, develop and
manufacture image processing products, primarily consisting of hardware and software for imaging processing in industrial and medical applications. Our high performance image sensors utilize both charge coupled device (“CCD”) and
complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (“CMOS”) technology. Our image processing software allows original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and systems integrators to develop vision applications using our image acquisition and
processing hardware. Our smart camera products are user-friendly, cost-effective vision appliances for task-specific factory floor applications such as gauging, high-precision alignment, inspection, assembly verification and machine guidance. Unlike
our OEM imaging products, this category of cameras is designed to be quickly deployed by technicians on the factory floor.

Additionally, with the DALSA acquisition, we produce and provide manufacturing services for MEMS, high voltage and mixed signal CMOS
devices and complete integrated circuit (“IC”) products. The majority of our semiconductor manufacturing capacity is consumed by external customers with the remaining capacity applied towards supplying unique CCD fabrication services to
our internal image sensor requirements.

We provide research and engineering services primarily in the areas of electronics,
materials, optics and information science to military, aerospace and industrial customers, as well as to various businesses throughout Teledyne. We collaborate with the Defense Advanced Research Products Agency (“DARPA”), and researchers
at universities and national laboratories to stay at the forefront of emerging technologies. We have developed high speed electronics, MEMS sensors and actuators, as well as compound semiconductors. We have developed functional materials, structural
materials, liquid-crystal based optical devices and image processing algorithms.

We produce advanced focal plane arrays,
sensors, and subsystems that cover a broad spectrum frequencies from x-ray wavelengths to 18 micron long-wave infrared wavelengths. We are a leader in the development and production of large format focal plane array sensors for both military and
space science markets. We support the production of third generation dual band infrared imagers designed to enable members of the armed forces to identify threats on the battlefield before any enemy can detect their presence. Our space sensors are
used on the Hubble Space Telescope and the Moon Mineralogy Mapper and are expected to be used in future NASA missions such as the James Webb Space Telescope. We have also developed new sensors, subassemblies and cameras for air- and ground-based
applications. For example, we have recently developed indium antimonide cameras and hyperspectral sensors for unmanned aerial vehicles. We also design and manufacture advanced military laser protection eyewear.







Aerospace and Defense Electronics

Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides sophisticated electronic components and subsystems and communications products,
including defense electronics, data acquisition and communications equipment for air transport and business aircraft, harsh environment interconnects, and components and subsystems for wireless and satellite communications, as well as general
aviation batteries.

Over the years principally through focused acquisitions, we have expanded our microwave components and
subsystems business with a goal of providing more highly integrated microwave subsystems and solutions to our customers. Historically, we designed and manufactured helix traveling wave tubes, commonly called TWTs, used to provide broadband power
amplification of microwave signals. Military applications include radar, electronic warfare and satellite communication. We make TWTs for commercial applications as well, such as electromagnetic compatibility test equipment and satellite
communication terminals. More recently, we have designed and delivered high power solid state TWT replacement amplifiers and complete amplifiers that incorporate a TWT and a power supply.

We now also design and manufacture solid state radio frequency (“RF”) and microwave components and subassemblies used in similar
applications as our TWTs. We produce cascadable amplifiers, voltage-controlled oscillators and microwave mixers, as well as Instantaneous Frequency Measurement (IFM)-based systems and subsystems, including integrated frequency locked sources and
set-on receiver jammers used for the U.S. Navy and Air Force training. Our solid state power amplifiers, RF converters, low noise amplifiers (LNAs) and modems are used in systems that provide communications links between ground stations and
orbiting satellites. Such products are also used in mobile telephone, TV broadcast and commercial data communications networks.

We supply a variety of connectors and cable assemblies, including specialized high voltage connectors and subassemblies and coax microwave
cable and interconnects, for defense, aerospace and industrial applications. We also provide custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable assemblies to a number of marine, environmental and industrial markets. Additionally, we produce pilot helmet
mounted display components and subsystems for the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System (“JHMCS”) used in the F-15, F-16 and F-18 aircrafts. The JHMCS system is a multi-role system designed to enhance pilot situational awareness and provides
visual control of aircraft targeting systems and sensors. We manufacture microprocessor-controlled aircraft ejection seat sequencers and related support elements to military aircraft programs. We have been awarded several development contracts to
furnish electronic safe and arm devices for use in a number of military applications.

We also provide specialty electronic
manufacturing services. We develop and manufacture custom microelectronic modules that provide both high reliability and extremely dense packaging for military applications. We also develop custom tamper-resistant microcircuits designed to provide
enhanced security in military communication. We serve the market for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of sophisticated military electronics equipment. We manufacture advanced packaging solutions for military and commercial aircraft using rigid and
rigid-flex printed circuit boards.

We supply electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial switching devices
to military, aerospace and other industrial markets. Applications include microwave and wireless communication infrastructure, RF and general broadband test equipment, test equipment used in semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial and commercial
machinery and control equipment. On commercial aircraft, our solid state and electromechanical relays are used in a variety of applications, including jet engine fuel control, management of control surfaces and other on board applications.

We are a leading supplier of digital flight data acquisition and analysis systems to the civil aviation market. These systems
acquire data for use by the aircraft’s flight data recorder as well as record additional data for the airline’s operation, such as aircraft and engine condition monitoring. We provide the means to transfer this data, using Teledyne’s
patented wireless technology, from the aircraft to the airline operation center. We also design and manufacture airborne networking products, including servers, as well as aircraft data loading equipment, flight line maintenance terminals and data
distribution software used by commercial airlines and the U.S. military. We also provide lead acid aircraft batteries for general aviation, and business and light jet applications.







Engineered Systems

Our Engineered Systems segment provides innovative systems engineering and integration, advanced technology development, and manufacturing solutions to space, military, environmental, energy, chemical,
biological, nuclear systems and missile defense requirements. This segment also designs and manufactures hydrogen gas generators, thermoelectric and electrochemical energy solutions and small turbine engines.

Engineered Products and Services

Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. is a well-recognized full-service air and missile defense contractor. Our engineering and analytic capabilities include concept definition; systems design, development,
integration and testing; and prototype manufacturing with specialization in Service Oriented Architecture applications and real-time distributed test and Command and Control (“C2”) systems. We lead and support air and missile defense
programs, including the Extended Air Defense Simulation (“EADSIM”) and most recently the Objective Simulation Framework (“OSF”) programs. Associated engineering support tasks generally involve analysis, test and evaluation of air
and ballistic missile defense system performance on a large number of major programs, including the Ground-based Midcourse Defense, Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot Advanced Capability 3, and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense
(“THAAD”) systems. As the Missile Defense Agency (“MDA”) prime contractor for the OSF contract, we will design, develop, test, implement and maintain the OSF. The OSF is being designed to support full scale simulations, ground
tests and live fire events throughout the life cycle of the Ballistic Missile Defense System.

In addition to our missile
defense activities, we support many other programs of the U.S. Department of Defense. We provide the Air Force with operational and systems expertise in the development, test, integration, and fielding of new Command and Control and
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) capabilities for major Air Force systems. In July 2011, after developing a full-scale interior mockup and conducting functionality demonstrations, we were awarded a prime contract
from the U.S. Special Operations Command to design, develop, test, manufacture and sustain the Shallow Water Command Submersible (“SWCS”) vehicle to replace the current SEAL Delivery Vehicle. At about the same time, we received approval
from the U.S. Navy Program Executive Office – Command, Control, Computer and Intelligence (“PEO—C4I”) to move into full rate production of the Littoral Battlespace Sensing Glider (“LBS-G”) system. Teledyne Webb Research
is the glider developer and manufacturer on the LBS-G program.

We are active in U.S. space programs, having held various
roles in the Space Shuttle program and continuing to play a vital role in the science operations area of the International Space Station (“ISS”) program. We provide 24-hour-per-day payload operations in the ISS Payload Operations and
Integration Center located at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center. We also work on the ISS Cargo Mission Contract at the Johnson Space Center as a subcontractor to Lockheed Martin. We are the prime contractor on the Marshall Space Flight Center
Systems Development and Operations Support Contract, which provides engineering services and hardware development support for a variety of space activities. We also have a prime Blanket Purchase Agreement with the Marshall Space Flight Center for
specialized engineering and program support.

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to clean up dangerous
materials and waste. We apply sophisticated computer aided engineering, design, modeling and manufacturing skills to support the U.S. Army’s Edgewood Chemical and Biological Center. We also support the U.S. Government in the
development of Engineered Systems (design, build, test and install), including the Whole System Live Agent Test (“WSLAT”) Chamber. The test chamber will be used at the Baker Lab in Dugway, Utah to exercise biological warfare agent
detectors.

We operate a full service radiological analysis laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee. This laboratory has received
certification from the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in five states, including Utah and Texas where the largest commercial radiological waste disposal site resides. With its Nuclear Utilities Procurement Issues Committee
certification, the laboratory also serves almost 50% of the nuclear power plants in United States. We also manage and operate a separation, purification and analysis of atmospheric samples laboratory for the U.S. Government. Additionally, we provide
engineering and manufacturing for customers in the commercial nuclear market. Our contract with USEC, Inc. to manufacture gas centrifuge service modules for the American Centrifuge Project to support fuel production for commercial nuclear power
plants has been suspended since 2009.







We manufacture products that are primarily highly engineered and high quality machined and
metal fabricated components and assemblies for external customers across the spectrum of our core business base, including NASA, U.S. Department of Defense customers and the U.S. Department of Energy, as well as commercial customers.
Through our UK-based operations, we manufacture precision machined large components and also manufacture advanced composites for the commercial aviation industry.

Energy Systems

We manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas generators used
worldwide in electrical power generation plants, semiconductor manufacturing, optical fiber production, chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other industrial processes. Our sales of hydrogen generators have been primarily in
developing countries and domestic applications where delivered merchant gas is not practical. We also provide thermoelectric and electrochemical energy technology solutions for use in U.S. Government programs.

Turbine Engines

We design, develop and manufacture small turbine engines primarily used in tactical missiles for military markets. Our engines power the Boeing Harpoon and Standoff Land Attack Missile systems, and we are
the sole source provider of engines for the baseline Lockheed Martin Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”). We also continue to work on advanced technology for small turbine engines and components for programs sponsored by the
U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory.

Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the various industries we serve. No commercial customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during 2011, 2010 or 2009.

Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 36% of total sales in 2011, compared with 29% in 2010 and 26% in 2009. In
2011, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign countries. Approximately 90 percent of our sales to foreign customers were made to customers in 24 foreign countries. The 2011 top five countries for international sales, were the United
Kingdom, Norway, China, Germany and South Korea and constituted approximately 17% of our total sales.

Approximately 36%, 44%
and 47% of our total sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Information on the Company’s sales to the U.S. Government, including direct
sales as a prime contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, is as follows (in millions):



201120102009Instrumentation$38.6$35.6$36.4Digital Imaging110.293.396.6Aerospace and Defense Electronics303.6302.4287.0Engineered Systems242.0296.1357.8Total U.S. Government sales$694.4$727.4$777.8

Our principal U.S. Government customer is the U.S. Department of Defense. These sales
represented 29%, 34% and 36% of our total sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, our largest program with the U.S. Government was the Systems Development and Operations Support contract with NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center,
which represented 1.8% of total sales. In both 2010 and 2009, our largest program with the U.S. Government was the Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance contract with the Space and Missile Defense Command, and it represented 3.4% and
4.1% of then total sales, respectively.

As described on pages 14 through 16, there are risks associated with doing business
with the U.S. Government. In 2011, approximately 60% of our U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts were fixed-price type contracts, compared to 54% in 2010 and 50% in 2009. Under these types of contracts, we bear the inherent
risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. Such contracts are typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance.
Additionally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the







U.S. Government at its convenience, without identification of any default. When contracts are terminated for convenience, we typically recover costs incurred or committed, settlement
expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. We had seven U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience in 2011, compared to two in 2010 and seven in 2009.

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately $944.6 million at January 1, 2012, compared with $863.8 million at
January 2, 2011 and $812.5 million at January 3, 2010. We expect to fulfill 98% of such backlog of confirmed orders during 2012.

Raw Materials and Suppliers

Generally, our businesses have experienced minimal fluctuations in the supply of raw materials, but not without some price volatility. While some of our businesses provide services, for those businesses
that sell hardware and product, a portion of the value that we provide is labor oriented, such as design, engineering, assembly and test activities. In manufacturing our products, we use our own production capabilities and also third party suppliers
and subcontractors, including international sources. Some of the items we purchase for the manufacture of our products, including certain gyro components for some marine navigation applications, certain magnets and helix wire for our traveling wave
tubes and certain infrared detectors substrates are purchased from limited or single sources, including international sources, due to technical capability, price and other factors. While over the years we have not experienced much difficulty in
procuring raw materials, components, sub-assemblies and other supplies required in our manufacturing processes, continuing disruption in the global economy and financial markets could trigger increased pricing and otherwise affect our suppliers as
well as our ability to procure some supplies.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the commitment to
work closely with our customers to understand their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and longer-term relationships.

Our segments use a combination of internal sales forces, distributors and commissioned sales representatives to market and sell our products and services. Our Teledyne Instruments companies and other
businesses have been working over the years to consolidate or share internal sales and servicing efforts. Several Teledyne businesses have been marketing and selling products collaboratively to similar customers to promote “one-stop”
shopping under singular “brand” names, including Teledyne Oil & Gas, Teledyne Marine, Teledyne Nuclear, Teledyne Water Quality and most recently by Teledyne Microwave Solutions.

Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our
government contracts are awarded after a competitive bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to competitive pricing.

Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other subsidiaries, the Company has established offices in foreign countries to
facilitate international sales for various businesses. Locations include Brazil, China, France, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates.

Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and
the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we have certain advantages that we believe help us compete
effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of quality, product performance and reliability, technical expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
do.







Research and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve engineering and design related to improving products and developing new products and technologies in the same or similar fields. We spent a total of
$315.7 million in 2011, $319.9 million in 2010 and $374.8 million in 2009 on research and development and bid and proposal costs. Customer-funded research and development, most of which was attributable to work under contracts with the
U.S. Government, represented approximately 68% of total research and development costs for 2011, compared with 81% in 2010 and 84% in 2009.

In 2011, we incurred $101.9 million in Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal costs. We expect the level of Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal costs to be
approximately $110.1 million in 2012.

Intellectual Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks,
trade names, and copyrights, which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, we believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or related group of such properties. We own
several hundred active patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain patents, technology and other
intellectual property rights owned and controlled by us.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire or
terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or termination of these patents, patent applications and license agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations or financial condition.

Employees

We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our total current workforce consists of approximately 8,890 employees, of which approximately 6,810 employees are located in the United States.
Approximately, 1,020 employees were added with the DALSA acquisition.

Executive Management

Teledyne’s executive management includes:



Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 YearsExecutive Officers:Robert Mehrabian*70Dr. Mehrabian has served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne for more than five years. He is a director of Teledyne and PPG Industries,
Inc.Chairman, President and ChiefExecutive Officer; DirectorJohn T. Kuelbs*69Mr. Kuelbs has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teledyne for more than five years.Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryDale A. Schnittjer*67Mr. Schnittjer has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company for more than five years.Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerSusan L. Main*53Ms. Main has been Vice President and Controller of the Company for more than five years.Vice President and ControllerSegment Management:Aldo Pichelli*59Mr. Pichelli has been President and Chief Operating OfficerPresident and Chief Operating Officer, Instrumentation and Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segmentsof Teledyne’s Instrumentation and Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments since January 2, 2011. From September 1, 2007 to that date, he had been President and Chief
Operating Officer of the Electronics and Communications segment. Prior to that date, he had been Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of that segment.











Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 Years

Rex D. Geveden*50Mr. Geveden has been the President of Teledyne Brown

President, Engineered Systems Segment and President and Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne Scientific & Imaging, LLCEngineering, Inc. and the Engineered Systems segment since August 1, 2007. Since January 16, 2012, he has also been the President and Chief Executive Officer of
Teledyne Scientific & Imaging, LLC. From January 1, 2008 through January 2, 2011, he had also been the President of the Energy and Power Systems segment. Prior to that, Mr. Geveden served as the Associate Administrator of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) where he functioned as the agency’s chief operating officer. Prior to that, he served as NASA’s Chief Engineer and Deputy Director of NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in
Huntsville, Alabama.



Brian C. Doody50Mr. Doody has been the Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne .DALSA, Inc. since the February 12, 2011 acquisition of DALSA Corporation. From September 2007 to the acquisition, he had been the Chief Executive Officer of DALSA Corporation. Prior to that, he was
the Chief Operating Officer of DALSA Corporation.

Chief Executive Officer and President, Teledyne DALSA, Inc.

Other Officers:

Cynthia Belak55Ms. Belak became the Vice President, Business Risk

Vice President, Business RiskAssuranceAssurance on January 24, 2012, to assume responsibility for the Internal Audit function upon Mr. Blukis’ retirement. Prior to that, since January 4, 2010, she had been
Group Controller within the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. From February 2008 until joining Teledyne, she was the Vice President of Finance of Sypris Electronics LLC, and prior thereto, she was Vice President of Finance and Controller of
Sypris Data Systems Inc.

Stephen F. Blackwood49Mr. Blackwood has been Vice President and Treasurer of

Vice President and TreasurerTeledyne since April 23, 2008. From March 2007 to April 2008, he was Treasurer and Senior Director of Investor Relations of MannKind Corporation, a biotechnology company. From
September 2005 until the sale of the company in December 2006, he was Vice President and Treasurer of Pacific Energy Partners, L.P., a MLP holding company. Prior to that, he was Director of Global Treasury at Amgen, Inc., a biotechnology
company.

Ivars R. Blukis69Mr. Blukis has been the Chief Business Risk Assurance

Chief Business Risk Assurance OfficerOfficer for more than five years and is responsible for the internal audit function. Mr. Blukis will be retiring in the second quarter of 2012.

George C. Bobb, III37Mr. Bobb has been Associate General Counsel of Teledyne

Associate General Counsel and Chief Ethics Officer, General Counsel of Engineered Systems and Digital Imaging
Segmentsand the General Counsel of the Engineered Systems and Digital Imaging segments since August 2011. Since December 20, 2011, he has been Teledyne’s Chief Ethics Officer.
Prior to that, he held numerous legal roles since he joined Teledyne in July 2008. Prior to joining Teledyne, he served as Deputy Chief of Staff, and before then Counsel, for National Security Law and Policy in the National Security Division of the
U.S. Department of Justice.



Melanie S. Cibik52Miss Cibik has been Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than five years.

Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary



Robyn E. McGowan47Ms. McGowan has been Vice President — Administration, Human Resources and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than five years.

Vice President, Administration, Human Resources and Assistant Secretary







Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 YearsPatrick Neville38Mr. Neville has been Vice President and Chief InformationVice President and Chief Information OfficerOfficer since October 4, 2010. From January 2010 to June 2010, he was Director of IT Global Operations at Iberdrola S.A. and from January 2003 to December 2009 he was Vice President
of Information Technology at Energy East Corporation.Robert L. Schaefer66Mr. Schaefer has been an Associate General Counsel and anVice President — Contracts, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, Vice President and General Counsel of the Instrumentation and
Aerospace and Defense Electronics SegmentsAssistant Secretary of Teledyne for more than five years. He has been the Vice President — Contracts since April 27, 2011. Since January 2, 2011, he has been the Vice President
and General Counsel of each of the Instrumentation and the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments. Prior to that he held numerous legal roles at Teledyne for more than five years.Robert W. Steenberge64Mr. Steenberge has been a Vice President of the Company and Teledyne’s Chief Technology Officer for more than five years.Vice President and Chief Technology OfficerJason VanWees40Mr. VanWees has been Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations of the Company for more than five years.Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations



*  Suchofficers are subject to the reporting and other requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Dr. Mehrabian and Teledyne have entered into a Fourth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of January 21, 2009.
Under the agreement, we will employ Dr. Mehrabian as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer through at least December 31, 2013, because 12 months notice of nonrenewal had not been given prior to the expiration of the term
ended December 31, 2011. The agreement automatically renews for a successive one year unless either party gives the other written notice of its election not to renew at least 12 months before the expiration of the current term or any
successive renewal terms. If notice is given, Dr. Mehrabian would then retire on December 31st of the year following the 12th month after receipt of the notice. Under the agreement, Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base salary is
$885,000. The agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is entitled to participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive bonus plan (“AIP”) and other executive compensation and benefit programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian
with a non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay him annually starting six months following his retirement and for a period of 10 years, as payments supplemental to any accrued pension under our qualified pension plan, an
amount equal to 50% of his base compensation as in effect at retirement.

Eighteen current members of management have entered
into change of control severance agreements. The agreements have a three-year, automatically renewing term, except as noted below. The executive is entitled to severance benefits if (1) there is a change in control of the Company and
(2) within three months before or 24 months after the change in control, either we terminate the executive’s employment for reasons other than cause or the executive terminates the employment for good reason. “Severance
benefits” currently consist of:



•A cash payment equal to three times (in the case of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Kuelbs and Mr. Schnittjer) or two times (in the case of
Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and 13 other executives) the sum of (i) the executive’s highest annual base salary within the year preceding the change in control and (ii) the Annual Incentive Plan bonus target for the year in
which the change in control occurs or the average actual bonus payout for the three years immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is higher (in the case of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and 10 other
executives) or the Annual Incentive Plan bonus target for the year in which the change in control occurs or the actual bonus payout for the year immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is higher (in the case of Mr. Kuelbs,
Mr. Schnittjer and three other executives).



•A cash payment for the current Annual Incentive Plan bonus cycle based on the fraction of the year worked times the Annual Incentive Plan target
objectives at 100% (in the case of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and 10 other executives) or 120% (in the case of Mr. Kuelbs, Mr. Schnittjer and three other executives) (with payment of the prior year bonus if not
yet paid).







•Payment in cash for unpaid performance share program awards, assuming applicable goals are met at 120% of performance targets.



•Continued equivalent health and welfare (e.g., medical, dental, vision, life insurance and disability) benefits at our expense for a period of up to
36 months (24 months in some agreements) after termination (with the executive bearing any portion of the cost the executive bore prior to the change in control); provided, however, such benefits would be discontinued to the extent the
executive receives similar benefits from a subsequent employer.



•Removal of restrictions on restricted stock issued under our restricted stock award programs.



•Full vesting under the Company’s pension plans (within legal parameters) such that the executive shall be entitled to receive the full accrued
benefit under all such plans in effect as of the date of the change in control, without any actuarial reduction for early payment.



•Up to $25,000 ($15,000 in some agreements) reimbursement for actual professional outplacement services.



•Immediate vesting of all stock options, with options being exercisable for the full remainder of the term (in the case of Mr. Kuelbs,
Mr. Schnittjer and three other executives, this immediate vesting of options takes place upon a change of control.)



•In the case of Mr. Kuelbs, Mr. Schnittjer and three other executives, a “gross-up-payment” to hold the executive harmless against
the impact, if any, of federal excise taxes imposed on the executive as a result of the payments constituting an “excess parachute” as defined in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. In the case of Dr. Mehrabian,
Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and 10 other executives, the executive will receive the better of, on an after-tax basis, (a) the unreduced excess parachute payment with no tax gross up payment, or (b) a parachute payment reduced to a
level below which an excise tax is imposed.

The agreements were amended as of December 31, 2008 to
defer certain payments for six months following a separation of service to assure compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.

On or before February 25, 2011, Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and eight other executives voluntarily agreed to amend and restate their agreements to conform the agreements
to prevailing best practices. Subsequently, the Company entered into change of control severance agreements, which substantially conformed to the amended and restated agreement version, with two other executives. As compared to the prior agreements,
as reflected above, the amended and restated change in control severance agreements contain four key changes or reductions as follows:



•Eliminate a “gross up payment” to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of federal excise taxes imposed on executive as a
result of “excess parachute” payments as defined in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. Instead, the executive will receive the better of, on an after-tax basis, (a) the unreduced excess parachute payment with no tax gross
up, or (b) a parachute payment reduced to a level below which an excise tax is imposed.



•Change the “single trigger” vesting of stock options upon a change of control to a “double trigger”.



•Change the formula for calculating the amount of severance: instead of the severance payment being a multiple of base salary plus bonus, with bonus
being the higher of target or the most recent bonus payout, the severance payment will be a multiple of base salary plus bonus, with bonus being the higher of target or the prior three year average bonus.



•Reduce the amount of short year bonus: instead of a short year bonus being calculated at maximum (i.e., two times target), short year bonus will be
calculated at target.

On January 31, 2011, Teledyne also provided notice to Mr. Kuelbs and
Mr. Schnittjer and three other executives who did not agree to sign the amended and restated change in control agreement that it would not extend the term of their agreements, which action results in the termination of their existing change in
control severance agreement three years from the date of such notice (January 31, 2014).







Effective April 22, 2009, the Company entered into individual Indemnification
Agreements with directors and certain officers and executives of Teledyne, including those then members of Executive Management listed above. A total of 25 persons have such agreements. Simply, the Indemnification Agreements provide the
directors and executives who are parties to the agreements with a stand-alone contractual right to indemnification and expense advancement to the greatest extent allowable under Delaware law. Some further details include:



•In a third-party proceeding, an indemnitee is entitled to indemnification if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably
believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, if in a criminal action or proceeding, if the indemnitee had no reason to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. In a third party proceeding, the indemnification
obligation covers reasonable expenses, judgment fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by the indemnity.



•In proceedings by or in the name of the Company (e.g., derivative suits), an indemnitee is entitled to indemnification if the indemnitee acted in good
faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company. In derivative suits, the indemnification obligation covers reasonable expenses, but in proceedings where the Company is alleging harm
caused by the indemnitee, the indemnitee would generally not be entitled to be indemnified for judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (otherwise the Company would effectively not recover any damages), unless perhaps a Delaware or other
court determines otherwise despite the finding of liability.



•The Company has an obligation to advance, on an unsecured and interest free basis, reasonable expenses incurred by the indemnitee within 30 days
of the indemnitee’s request. The indemnitee does not need to meet any standard of conduct to be entitled to advancement of expenses and there is no determination requirement to be made by the Board in connection with the advancements of
expenses. An indemnity must repay any amounts advanced if it ultimately determined that the indemnity is not entitled to indemnification.

Our indemnification obligations do not cover the following situations: (1) where indemnification payments have been made under Director’s & Officer’s insurance or other
indemnification provisions; (2) where the claim is based on disgorgement of short-swing profits under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act; (3) where the claim is based on reimbursement by the indemnitee to the Company of a bonus or
other incentive-based or equity-based compensation if required under the Exchange Act (e.g., in connection with a restatement as a result of the company’s noncompliance with the financial reporting requirements required by Section 304 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act); or (4) where the proceeding is initiated by the indemnitee (other than proceedings that are consented to by the Board or that the indemnitee initiates against the Company to enforce the Agreement).

Under the Indemnification Agreements, in the event of a change in control or we reduce or do not renew our Director’s &
Officer’s insurance coverage, we are required to purchase (or cause the acquirer or successor to the Company to purchase or maintain) a six-year tail policy, subject to a 200% premium cap. The agreements continue until the later of
(i) 10 years after the indemnitee ceases to serve as a director or officer, and (ii) one year following the final termination of any proceeding subject to the agreement.



