Item 1.Business.



Who We
    Are



Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, digital imaging products and software, monitoring
    and control instrumentation for marine, environmental and
    industrial applications, harsh environment interconnect
    products, data acquisition and communications equipment for air
    transport and business aircraft, and components and subsystems
    for wireless and satellite communications. We also provide
    engineered systems and information technology services for
    defense, space, environmental and nuclear applications, and
    supply energy generation, energy storage and small propulsion
    products.



We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy exploration and
    production companies, major industrial companies and airlines.



Total sales from continuing operations in 2010 were
    $1,644.2 million, compared with $1,652.1 million in
    2009 and $1,722.0 million in 2008. Our aggregate segment
    operating profit and other segment income were
    $207.3 million in 2010, $198.7 million in 2009 and
    $228.2 million in 2008. This information reflects the
    classification of our former Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment as a discontinued operation given the previously
    announced and pending sale of our piston engines businesses, as
    further described below.



Approximately 56% of our total sales from continuing operations
    in 2010 were to commercial customers and the balance was to the
    U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or subcontractor.
    Approximately 44% of these U.S. Government sales were
    attributable to fixed-price type contracts and the balance to
    cost plus fee-type contracts. Sales to international customers
    accounted for approximately 29% of total sales from continuing
    operations in 2010.



Our businesses are divided into four business segments; namely,
    Instrumentation, Digital Imaging, Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics and Engineered Systems. For 2010, we realigned and
    changed our reporting structure of some of our reportable
    business units. Our former Electronics and Communications
    segment is now reported as three separate segments,
    Instrumentation, Digital Imaging and Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics. The businesses that had comprised the Energy and
    Power Systems segment are now reported as part of the Aerospace
    and Defense Electronics and the Engineered Systems segments. Our
    battery products business, with revenues of $15.5 million in
    2010, is now part of the Aerospace and Defense Electronics
    segment and theon-sitegas
    and power generation systems and the turbine engines businesses,
    with combined revenues of $53.9 million in 2010, are now
    part of the Engineered Systems segment. Our previously reported
    segment data have been restated to reflect this revised
    reporting structure and the classification of our piston engines
    businesses as a discontinued operation.



Our four business segments and their respective contributions to
    our total sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008 are summarized in the
    following table:



Percentage of SalesSegment201020092008Instrumentation35%32%32%Digital Imaging8%8%8%Aerospace and Defence Electronics37%35%35%Engineered Systems20%25%25%100%100%100%





We are a Delaware corporation that was spun off as an
    independent company from Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated (now
    known as Allegheny Technologies Incorporated) (“ATI”)
    on November 29, 1999. Our





principal executive offices are located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios,
    Thousand Oaks, California91360-2362.Our telephone number is(805) 373-4545.



Strategy



Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of instrumentation, digital imaging, aerospace and defense
    electronics and government engineered systems. Our core markets
    are characterized by high barriers to entry and include
    specialized products and services not likely to be commoditized.
    We intend to strengthen and expand our core businesses with
    targeted acquisitions. We aggressively pursue operational
    excellence to continually improve our margins and earnings. At
    Teledyne, operational excellence includes the rapid integration
    of the businesses we acquire. Over time, our goal is to create a
    set of businesses that are truly superior in their niches. We
    continue to evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are
    aligned with our strategy.



With the recently completed acquisition of DALSA Corporation and
    subject to the divestiture of our general aviation piston
    engines businesses, as described below, we will be transformed
    into an electronics, instrumentation, digital imaging and
    engineering focused company.



Our
    Recent Acquisitions



During fiscal 2010, we acquired:



•Optimum Optical Systems, Inc., a designer and manufacturer of
    custom-optics, optomechanical assemblies and electro-optics for
    use in the ultraviolet, visible and infrared spectrum. This
    acquisition expands Teledyne’s capabilities and product
    offerings in tactical infrared imaging systems.•Intelek plc, a designer and manufacturer of electronic systems
    for satellite and microwave communication and a manufacturer of
    aerostructures and advanced composites. This acquisition
    principally expands Teledyne’s capabilities in microwave
    systems.•Hafmynd ehf, a designer and manufacturer of the
    Gaviatmautonomous underwater vehicle. This acquisition expands
    Teledyne’s underwater surveying capabilities.



On February l2, 2011, we completed Teledyne’s largest
    acquisition to date to broaden our digital imaging capabilities,
    markets and customers with:



•DALSA Corporation (“DALSA”), a designer and
    manufacturer of digital imaging products as well as
    semiconductor wafers and components. Among other things, our
    combined digital imaging technologies should allow us to develop
    new infrared and visible light products for our respective
    markets and customers.



Teledyne spent $60.0 million on the above-listed 2010
    acquisitions and approximately CAD $337 million for its
    recent 2011 acquisition of DALSA.



Our
    Pending Divestiture



In accordance with our strategy to evaluate and divest non-core
    businesses, in December 2010, we entered into an agreement to
    sell our general aviation piston engines businesses, including
    Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc. and Teledyne Mattituck
    Services, Inc., to Technify Motor (USA) Ltd., a subsidiary of
    China-based AVIC International Holding Corporation for
    $186.0 million in cash. These piston engines businesses
    formerly constituted Teledyne’s Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment and are now classified as discontinued
    operations. While the sale is subject to closing conditions, we
    expect it to close during the 1st quarter of 2011.



Available
    Information



Our Annual Report onForm 10-K,our Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,any Current Reports onForm 8-K,and any amendments to these reports, are available on our
    website as soon as reasonably





practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or
    furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
    “SEC”). The SEC also maintains a website that contains
    these reports at www.sec.gov. In addition, our Corporate
    Governance Guidelines, our Corporate Objectives and Guidelines
    for Employee Conduct, our code of ethics for financial
    executives, directors and service providers and the charters of
    the standing committees of our Board of Directors are available
    on our website. Our website address iswww.teledyne.com.



You will be responsible for any costs normally associated with
    electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges.
    Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC
    report (without exhibits) or document, please write to John T.
    Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary,
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios,
    Thousand Oaks, California91360-2362,and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you,free-of-charge.



Our
    Business Segments



Our businesses are divided into four segments: Instrumentation;
    Digital Imaging; Aerospace and Defense Electronics; and
    Engineered Systems. Financial information about our business
    segments can be found in Note 13 to our consolidated
    financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.



Instrumentation



Our Instrumentation segment provides monitoring and control
    instruments for marine, environmental, scientific, industrial
    and defense applications and harsh environment interconnect
    products.



Marine
    Instrumentation



Historically, through Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, we have
    manufactured geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and
    specialty products used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to
    locate oil and gas reserves beneath the ocean floor. We continue
    to adapt this technology for the military market, where these
    products can be used to detect submarines, surface ships and
    torpedoes.



Through various acquisitions over the last several years, we
    have greatly expanded our underwater acoustic and marine
    instrumentation capabilities.





•Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.’s acoustic Doppler current
    profilers perform precise measurement of currents at varying
    depths in oceans and rivers, and its Doppler Velocity Logs are
    used for navigation by civilian and military surface ships,
    unmanned underwater vehicles and U.S. Navy divers. We also
    manufacture conductivity, temperature and depth (CTD) sensors.



•Teledyne Benthos, Inc. manufactures oceanographic products used
    by the U.S. Navy and in energy exploration, oceanographic
    research and port and harbor security services. Products include
    acoustic modems for networked underwater communication, sidescan
    andsub-bottomprofiling sonar systems, underwater acoustic releases and
    remotely operated underwater vehicles.



•Teledyne TSS Limited designs and manufactures inertial sensing,
    gyrocompass navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection
    systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine
    markets. Teledyne TSS’ inertial sensing and navigation
    systems, which contain mechanical gyros and solid state sensors,
    provide detailed positioning parameters for marine applications.
    Teledyne TSS’ electromagnetic detection systems are fitted
    to remotely operated vehicles and used for detection and
    maintenance of subsea telecommunications cables, power cables
    and offshore pipelines.



•Teledyne Webb Research manufactures autonomous underwater
    gliding vehicles and profiling floats. Our gliders use a silent
    buoyancy engine for propulsion that takes advantage of changes
    in buoyancy in conjunction with wings and tail steering to
    convert vertical motion to horizontal displacement, thereby
    propelling the system on a programmed route with very low power
    consumption. Glider applications range from oceanographic
    research to military persistent surveillance systems and mobile
    nodes for subsea communication networks. To expand our
    underwater surveying capabilities, in 2010, we





purchased an Icelandic company that manufactures the
    battery-powered
    Gaviatmautonomous underwater vehicle. The
    Gaviatmvehicle’s modular design allows for rapid sensor
    reconfiguration and battery replacement.



•Teledyne Odom Hydrographic, Inc. designs and manufactures
    hydrographic survey instrumentation used in port surveys,
    dredging, pre-installation of offshore energy infrastructure and
    other applications. Teledyne Odom’s single and multibeam
    echo sounders, coupled with Teledyne RD Instruments’
    Doppler Velocity Logs, Teledyne Benthos’ side scan sonar
    systems and Teledyne TSS’ inertial sensing systems, provide
    an extensive line of precision products for marine navigation,
    detection, sonar imaging and bathymetric survey.•U.K.-based Teledyne Cormon manufactures subsea and surface
    pipeline corrosion and erosion monitoring, as well as flow
    integrity monitoring solutions for the oil and gas industry.
    These flow assurance sensors and equipment rely on wet-mateable
    interconnect systems from Teledyne ODI and feed-through systems
    from Teledyne D.G. O’Brien.



We also provide a broader range ofend-to-endundersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas,
    defense, oceanographic and telecom markets.



•Teledyne ODI, Inc. manufactures subsea, wet-mateable electrical
    and fiber-optic interconnect systems used in offshore oil and
    gas production, oceanographic research and military applications.•Teledyne D.G. O’Brien manufacturesglass-to-metalsealed subsea cable, pressure vessel penetrator and connector
    systems, primarily for subsea military and subsea oil and gas
    production.•Teledyne Impulse manufactures water-proof and splash-proof
    neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable
    assemblies that complement Teledyne D.G. O’Brien’s and
    Teledyne ODI’s interconnect systems typically used in
    underwater equipment and submerged monitoring systems.•Our Teledyne Oil & Gas group is working with Teledyne
    Scientific Company in an effort to improve the reliability of
    materials exposed to harsh deep sea conditions.



Environmental
    Instrumentation



We offer a wide range of products for environmental monitoring.



•Teledyne Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc. manufactures a
    broad line of instrumentation for monitoring trace levels of
    gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide,
    nitrogen oxide, methane and ozone in order to measure the
    quality of the air we breathe.•Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc. supplies environmental monitoring
    systems for the detection, measurement and reporting of air
    pollutants from industrial stack emissions.•Teledyne Isco, Inc. produces water quality and quantity
    monitoring products such as wastewater samplers and open channel
    flow meters. A variety of measurement technologies is offered to
    address challenging flow measurement applications in pump
    stations, flumes, weirs, industrial and municipal sewer systems
    and storm drains.



We provide laboratory instrumentation that complements our
    environmental monitoring businesses.



•Teledyne Tekmar Company manufactures laboratory instrumentation
    that automates the preparation and concentration of organic
    samples for the analysis of trace levels of volatile organic
    compounds by a gas chromatograph and mass spectrometry. The
    company also provides laboratory instrumentation for the
    detection of total organic carbon and total nitrogen in water
    and wastewater samples.•Through Teledyne Leeman Labs, we provide inductively coupled
    plasma laboratory spectrometers, atomic absorption
    spectrometers, mercury analyzers and calibration standards. The
    advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental
    and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of
    inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other
    environmental and geological samples.







•Teledyne Isco, Inc. manufactures liquid chromatography
    instruments and accessories for purification of organic
    compounds. Its liquid chromatography customers include
    pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and
    development. It also manufactures high precision, high pressure
    syringe pumps to measure process extraction rates of fluids
    ranging from liquefied gases to viscous tars with flow rates
    spanningsub-microliter to 400 ml per minute with applied pressures up to 20,000
    psi.



A group of Teledyne businesses serve the process control and
    monitoring needs of industrial plants with instruments that
    include gas analyzers, vacuum and flow measurement devices,
    package integrity inspection systems and torque measurement
    sensors.



•Teledyne Analytical Instruments was a pioneer in the development
    of precision oxygen analyzers. We now manufacture a wide range
    of process gas and liquid analysis products for measurement of
    oxygen, combustibles,oil-in-water,moisture, sulfides, pH and many other parameters. We also
    manufacture custom analyzer systems that provide turn-key
    solutions to complex process monitoringand/orcontrol applications found in petrochemical and refinery
    facilities.•Teledyne Hastings Instruments manufactures a broad line of
    instruments for precise measurement and control of vacuum and
    gas flows. Our instruments are used in varied applications such
    as semiconductor manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and
    food processing.•Under the
    Taptone®brand, Teledyne Benthos, Inc. provides quality control and
    package integrity systems to the food and beverage, personal
    care and pharmaceutical industries that inspect plastic, glass
    and metal containers, labeling and content for various types of
    defects and non-conformities.•Through Teledyne Test Services, we manufacture torque sensors
    and automatic data acquisition systems that are used to
    instrument critical control valves subject to regulatory
    oversight, such as the requirement to test periodically the
    torque, thrust and force of motor-operated valves used in
    nuclear power plants.



Digital
    Imaging



Our Digital Imaging segment includes our sponsored and
    centralized research laboratories for a range of new
    technologies benefiting government programs and our businesses
    as well as major development efforts for innovative digital
    imaging products for government and space applications. It also
    includes infrared detectors, cameras and optomechanical
    assemblies.



We design and produce advanced focal plane arrays, sensors, and
    subsystems covering a broad spectrum of light from below 0.3
    micron ultra-violet to 18 micron long-wave infrared.



•Through Teledyne Imaging Sensors, we provide large format focal
    plane array sensors for both military and space science markets.
    We have been developing manufacturing processes to support
    production of third generation dual band infrared imagers
    designed to allow members of the armed forces to identify
    threats on the battlefield before the enemy can detect their
    presence. We have developed substrate-removed Mercury Cadmium
    Telluride focal plane arrays that can detect about 80% of the
    incident light in visible and infrared bands. These substrate
    removed sensors are being used on the Moon Mineralogy Mapper as
    well as the James Webb Space Telescope and are expected to be
    used in future NASA missions. We also design and manufacture
    advanced military laser protection eyewear.•Through Teledyne Judson Technologies, we provide a wider range
    of visible and infrared detectors, focal plane arrays and
    cameras. We have developed low noise Indium Gallium Arsenide
    focal plane arrays for short wavelength infrared night vision
    applications and integrated detector dewar cooler assemblies for
    tactical and space applications.•Through Teledyne Optimum Optical Systems, Inc., we design and
    manufacture custom optics, optomechnical assemblies and
    electro-optics for use in the ultraviolet, visible and infrared
    spectrum. We also design optical assemblies for simulators,
    including software and servo development.







Through Teledyne Scientific Company, we provide research and
    engineering services primarily in the areas of electronics,
    materials, optics, and information sciences. Our scientific team
    delivers research and development services and specialty
    products to military, aerospace and industrial customers. We
    also license various technologies to third parties. The
    electronics business has developed high speed electronics, MEMS
    (micro electro mechanical systems) sensors and actuators, as
    well as compound semiconductors. The materials, optics and
    information sciences businesses have been involved with ceramic
    composites for next-generation rocket nozzles, energy harvesting
    technologies, electronic device packaging, biomaterials and
    liquid crystal-based optical devices, as well as imaging and
    sensor processing. We strive to maintain close relationships and
    collaborations with the Defense Advanced Research Products
    Agency, commonly called DARPA, and researchers at universities
    and national laboratories to stay at the forefront of
    cutting-edge technologies. Teledyne Scientific Company strives
    to provide value to various businesses throughout Teledyne via
    niche product development, critical problem resolution and joint
    program capture.



With the February 12, 2011 acquisition of DALSA, we have
    expanded our imaging products and solutions capabilities and
    customer base. Through Teledyne DALSA, Inc., we now design,
    develop and manufacture image capture products, primarily
    consisting of high performance digital cameras for use in
    industrial, scientific, medical and professional applications.
    We also now design, develop and manufacture imaging processing
    products, primarily consisting of hardware and software for
    imaging processing in industrial and medical applications. Our
    high performance image sensors utilize both CCD (charge coupled
    device) and CMOS (complementary metal-oxide semiconductor)
    technology. Our imaging process software allows OEMs or systems
    integrators to develop vision applications using our frame
    grabber or vision processor hardware. Our smart camera products
    are user-friendly, cost-effective vision appliances for
    task-specific factory floor applications such as gauging,
    high-precision alignment, inspection, assembly verification and
    machine guidance. Unlike OEM products, this category of cameras
    is designed to be quickly employed by technicians on the factory
    floor.



Additionally, with the DALSA acquisition, we manufacture
    semiconductor wafers and components for the electronics
    industry. We provide processing services for MEMS, high voltage
    and CMOS wafers and complete integrated circuit
    (IC) component products. Our semiconductor products and
    services support our digital imaging business.



Aerospace
    and Defense Electronics



Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems and
    communications products, including defense electronics, data
    acquisition and communications equipment for air transport and
    business aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless
    and satellite communications, as well as general aviation
    batteries.



Historically, through Teledyne MEC, we have designed and
    manufactured helix traveling wave tubes, commonly called TWTs,
    which are used to provide broadband power amplification of
    microwave signals. Military applications include radar,
    electronic warfare and satellite communication. We also make
    TWTs for commercial applications such as electromagnetic
    compatibility test equipment and satellite communication
    terminals. More recently, we have designed and delivered high
    power solid state TWT replacement amplifiers and complete
    amplifiers that incorporate a TWT and a power supply.



Through Teledyne Microwave, we design, develop and manufacture
    RF and microwave components and subassemblies used in aerospace
    and defense applications, including electronic warfare and radar
    and networked communications.



Over the last several years, we have expanded our microwave
    components and subsystems businesses with the goal of providing
    more highly integrated microwave subsystems to our defense
    customers.



•Teledyne Cougar, Inc. produces cascadable amplifiers,
    voltage-controlled oscillators and microwave mixers, as well as
    performance Instantaneous Frequency Measurement (IFM)-based
    systems and subsystems, including integrated frequency locked
    sources and set-on receiver jammers used for the U.S. Navy
    and Air Force training.







•Teledyne KW Microwave adds RF filters, multiplexers and
    diplexers to our product mix.•U.K.-based Teledyne Defence Limited provides customized
    microwave subassemblies and integrated subsystems, including
    complex microwave receiver front-end subsystems, to the global
    defense industry.



In July 2010, we acquired Intelek plc, including its Paradise
    Datacom division and Labtech division, to further expand
    Teledyne’s capabilities in microwave systems.



•Teledyne Paradise Datacom, LLC manufactures solid state power
    amplifiers, RF converters, low noise amplifiers (LNAs) and
    modems used in systems that provide communications links between
    ground stations and orbiting satellites. Such products are also
    used in mobile telephone, TV broadcast and commercial data
    communications networks.•U.K.-based Teledyne Labtech Limited manufactures microwave
    circuits and components primarily for the defense electronics,
    global telecommunications, space and satellite communications
    markets.



We have also expanded our connectors and cable assemblies
    businesses.



•Through Teledyne Reynolds, Inc., we supply specialized high
    voltage connectors and subassemblies for defense, aerospace and
    industrial applications.•Through Teledyne Storm Products — Microwave, we
    provide coax microwave cable and interconnects primarily to
    defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications.•Through Teledyne Storm Products — Cable Solutions, we
    provide custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable assemblies
    to a number of marine, environmental and industrial markets.•We also produce pilot helmet mounted display components and
    subsystems for the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System
    (“JHMCS”) used in the F-15, F-16 and F-18 aircrafts.
    The JHMCS system is a multi-role system designed to enhance
    pilot situational awareness and provides visual control of
    aircraft targeting systems and sensors. Teledyne Reynolds, Inc.
    is using an opticalangle-of-arrivalsensor invented at Teledyne Scientific Company in a
    “U-Track” pilot helmet tracker joint development
    effort.



We manufacture a wide array of other sophisticated electronic
    components and products and provide electronic manufacturing
    services as follows:





•Through Teledyne Microelectronics Technologies, we develop and
    manufacture custom microelectronic modules that provide both
    high reliability and extremely dense packaging for military
    applications. We also develop custom tamper-resistant
    microcircuits designed to provide enhanced security in military
    communication. In addition, we develop and manufacture custom
    microelectronic modules that provide both high reliability and
    extremely dense packaging for implantable medical devices, such
    as pacemakers and defibrillators, and commercial communication
    products.



•Through Teledyne Electronic Manufacturing Services, we serve the
    market for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of sophisticated
    military electronics equipment.



•Through Teledyne Printed Circuits Technology, we manufacture
    advanced packaging solutions for military and commercial
    aircraft using rigid and rigid-flex printed circuit boards.



•Teledyne Electronic Safety Products continues to provide
    microprocessor-controlled aircraft ejection seat sequencers and
    related support elements to military aircraft programs,
    including theF/A-18E/F,F-15-SG/K and F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. While we completed a
    five-year contract in 2010 to produce the Digital Recovery
    Sequencer to support the F-15, F-16, F-22,A-10,B-1
    and B-2 aircrafts, we have subsequently been awarded contracts
    to continue production for the next two years.



•Teledyne Electronic Safety Products has been awarded several
    development contracts to furnish electronic safe and arm devices
    (ESAD) that will be used in several applications such as
    personnel protection, tactical and space launch systems, for
    active armor, rocket motor ignition/warhead fuze





detonation and stage separation. We expect these new products to
    enter the production phase in the next two years.





•Through Teledyne Relays, we supply electromechanical relays,
    solid-state power relays and coaxial switching devices to
    military and aerospace markets. We also supply electromechanical
    relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial switching devices
    to industrial, medical and commercial aviation markets.
    Applications include microwave and wireless communication
    infrastructure, RF and general broadband test equipment, test
    equipment used in semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial
    and commercial machinery and control equipment. On commercial
    aircraft, our solid state and electromechanical relays are used
    in a range of applications from jet engine fuel control to
    managing control surfaces to on board applications.



•Through Teledyne Controls, we provide aircraft information
    management solutions that are designed to increase the
    reliability, safety and efficiency of airline transportation. We
    are a leading supplier of digital flight data acquisition and
    analysis systems to the civil aviation market. These systems
    acquire data for use by the aircraft’s flight data recorder
    as well as record additional data for the airline’s
    operation, such as aircraft and engine condition monitoring. We
    provide the means to transfer this data, using Teledyne’s
    patented wireless technology, from the aircraft to the airline
    operation center. We also design and manufacture aerospace
    Electronic Flight Bag equipment and networking products,
    including airborne servers, as well aircraft data loading
    equipment, flight line maintenance terminals and data
    distribution software used by commercial airlines, the
    U.S. military and aircraft manufacturers.



•Our
    Gill®line of lead acid batteries is widely recognized as the premier
    power source for general aviation. We have developed premium
    Valve Regulated Lead Tin (LT 7000 Series) aviation batteries for
    business and light jet applications. Our LT7000 Series battery
    is now certified as Original Equipment on the Embraer Phenom 100
    Jet, the Embraer Phenom 300 Jet, the Gulfstream G250 and the
    Bell 429 Helicopter. Teledyne Battery Products continues to
    explore military battery opportunities.



Engineered
    Systems



Our Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
    engineering and integration, advanced technology application,
    software development, and manufacturing solutions to space,
    military, environmental, energy, chemical, biological and
    nuclear systems and missile defense requirements. This segment
    also designs and manufactures hydrogen gas generators,
    thermoelectric and fuel-cell based power sources and small
    turbine engines.



Engineered
    Products and Services



Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. is a well-recognized
    full-service missile defense contractor with more than
    50 years of experience in air and missile defense and
    related systems integration. Our diverse customer base in this
    field includes the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command
    (“AMCOM”), the U.S. Army’s Space and Missile
    Defense Command (“SMDC”), the Missile Defense Agency
    (“MDA”) and Defense Department major prime contractors.



•We play significant roles in diverse missile defense areas,
    which include analyses of alternatives, site operations and
    deployment, systems engineering, modeling and simulation, test
    and evaluation, and complex real timehardware-in-the-loopintegration with an evolution to Service Oriented Architecture
    (“SOA”) solutions. Our engineering and technological
    capabilities include requirements definition, systems design,
    development, integration and testing, with specialization in SOA
    and real-time distributed systems.•During 2010, we continued our long-standing support of several
    air and missile defense programs, including the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense (“GMD”), Missile Defense Systems
    Exerciser, the Extended Air Defense Simulation
    (“EADSIM”) and Single Stimulation Framework programs.
    The associated support tasks involve analysis, test and
    evaluation of ballistic missile defense system performance on a
    large number of major programs, including the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense,





Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot Advanced Capability
    3, and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense
    (“THAAD”) systems.



•Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are a primary Ballistic
    Missile Defense (“BMD”) systems engineering contractor
    for the Missile Defense Agency and the U.S. Army. Teledyne
    Solutions is a prime contractor for the Systems Engineering and
    Technical Assistance Bridge Contract in support of the Missile
    Defense Agency. We also provide engineering and services support
    to other major Department of Defense customers including the
    U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command, the Program
    Executive Office for Missiles and Space, the Joint
    Interoperability Test Command, the U.S. Army Aviation and
    Missile Command, and Redstone Arsenal Garrison.



In addition to our missile defense activities, we support many
    other programs of the U.S. Department of Defense.



•We support the Navy’s Tactical Medical Logistics program,
    the Mission Package Development Lab for the Littoral Combat
    Ship, deployment of Littoral Battlespace Sensing Gliders and
    Patriot Missile software validation and verification for the
    Lower Tier Project Office. Tasking spans complex hardware
    integration and software development and testing, from design
    through systems fielding and operation.•Through Teledyne CollaborX, Inc., we provide full system
    acquisition lifecycle support from concept development to
    sustainment. Teledyne CollaborX provides engineering services to
    the U.S. Air Force, the Office of the Secretary of Defense,
    the Missile Defense Agency, the Defense Advanced Research
    Projects Agency and Service Laboratories, and select military
    combatant commands such as the U.S. Joint Forces Command,
    U.S. Strategic Command, and U.S. Northern Command.
    CollaborX provides the Air Force with operational and systems
    expertise in the development, test, integration, and fielding of
    new Command and Control and Intelligence, Surveillance and
    Reconnaissance capabilities for major Air Force weapons systems.



We are active in U.S. space programs and continue to be a
    significant contributor to NASA programs.



•We have held various roles in the Space Shuttle program and
    continue to play a vital role in the science operations area of
    the International Space Station (“ISS”) program. Our
    cadre provides24-hour-per-daypayload operations in the ISS Payload Operations and Integration
    Center located at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center. TBE
    has supported well over 86,000 hours of science operations
    for NASA and its customers, and is skilled at fabricating
    space-qualified hardware and designing and integrating
    experiment payloads. We also work on the ISS Cargo Mission
    Contract at the Johnson Space Center as a subcontractor to
    Lockheed Martin. Since January 2004, we have provided services
    related to the planning, preparation and execution of cargo
    missions to the ISS.•We are the prime contractor on the Marshall Space Flight Center
    Systems Development and Operations Support Contract, which
    provides engineering services and hardware development support
    for a variety of space activities. We also have a prime Blanket
    Purchase Agreement with the Marshall Space Flight Center for
    specialized engineering and program support. We perform
    engineering and software services under this contract for NASA
    space launch vehicles.



We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to clean up
    dangerous materials and waste.



•Since 1996, we have supported the U.S. Army’s
    Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel Program.•We also have begun to apply sophisticated computer aided
    engineering, design, modeling and manufacturing skills to
    support the U.S. Army’s Edgewood Chemical and
    Biological Center.•We also support the U.S. Government in the development of
    Engineered Systems (design, build, test and install), including
    the Whole System Live Agent Test (WSLAT) Chamber. The test
    chamber will be used at the Baker Lab in Dugway, Utah to
    exercise biological warfare agent detectors.•We operate a U.S. Department of Energy-certified
    radiological analysis services laboratory in Knoxville,
    Tennessee. This laboratory has received certification from the
    National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in three
    states, including Utah where the largest commercial radiological
    waste





disposal site resides. With its Nuclear Utilities Procurement
    Issues Committee certification, the laboratory also serves
    approximately 46% of the nuclear power plants in United States.



We manufacture products that are primarily highly engineered and
    high quality machined and metal fabricated components and
    assemblies for external customers across the spectrum of our
    core business base, including for NASA, U.S. Department of
    Defense branches and the U.S. Department of Energy
    programs, as well as commercial customers.





•Expanding on our core nuclear quality-related manufacturing, in
    February 2008, Fluor Enterprises, Inc., acting as an agent for
    USEC, awarded us a contract to manufacture and deliver an
    initial complement of gas centrifuge service modules to support
    fuel production for commercial nuclear power plants. In 2009,
    this contract was suspended due to the U.S. Department of
    Energy’s delayed decision regarding USEC’s application
    for a loan guarantee to complete construction of the American
    Centrifuge Project. We currently anticipate increased sales of
    gas centrifuge service modules in 2011 because USEC began
    remobilization of work under this contract in September 2010.
    USEC resubmitted a loan guarantee application to complete
    construction of the American Centrifuge Project in July 2010 and
    is awaiting a conditional approval. We expect USEC will receive
    feedback on this application in the first quarter of 2011.
    Continuation of this project beyond mid-year 2011 may
    depend on USEC receiving a favorable ruling regarding its loan
    guarantee application. Failure to secure such guarantees would
    seriously jeopardize USEC’s ability to finance, and
    therefore complete, the project.



•We also expanded our production of nuclear quality hardware
    through the delivery of additional commercial nuclear hardware
    in 2010, including emergency diesel generator support equipment.



•In 2010, we expanded our manufactured products capabilities with
    the addition of UK- based CML Group Limited (CML), part of the
    acquisition of Intelek plc. Through one of two manufacturing
    facilities we primarily manufacture precision machined large
    components for the commercial aviation industry. Through the
    other facility, we manufacture advanced composites. Teledyne CML
    Group Limited also participates in the Joint Strike Fighter
    program.



Energy
    Systems



Through Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., a majority-owned
    subsidiary of Teledyne, we manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas
    generators that utilize the principle of electrolysis to convert
    water into high purity hydrogen gas at useable pressures. This
    business also provides energy technology solutions for use in
    U.S. Government programs.





•Our Teledyne
    Titantmgas generators are used worldwide in electrical power generation
    plants, semiconductor manufacturing, optical fiber production,
    chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other
    industrial processes. Our sales of hydrogen generators have been
    primarily in developing countries and domestic applications
    where delivered merchant gas is not practical.



•For over 50 years, we have supplied high reliability direct
    energy conversion devices based on thermoelectric technology. We
    provided the thermoelectric power systems for the Pioneer 10 and
    11 deep-space missions to Jupiter and Saturn and for the Viking
    1 and Viking 2 Mars Landers. In 2006, in partnership with
    Pratt Whitney/Rocketdyne and under a ten-year $57 million
    contract signed in 2003 with the U.S. Department of Energy,
    we completed all of the testing of the Multi-Mission
    Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (MMRTG), which will
    provide long-term power for the outer planetary explorations of
    the future. The first mission to use this system will be the
    Mars Science Laboratory currently scheduled to launch in the
    fall of 2011.



•Another important space power activity is work performed with
    NASA on PEM fuel cell stacks and systems being developed to
    support both manned and unmanned robotic missions in space.
    Compared to conventional space power technology, PEM fuel cells
    enable more efficient use of resources and can be integrated
    into regenerative aerospace energy platforms.







Turbine
    Engines



Teledyne Turbine Engines designs, develops and manufactures
    small turbine engines primarily used in tactical missiles for
    military markets.



•Our J402 engine powers the Boeing Harpoon missile system.
    Derivatives of this engine power the Standoff Land Attack
    Missile and the Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded Response.
    A derivative of the J402 engine powers the Lockheed Martin JointAir-to-SurfaceStandoff Missile (“JASSM”). We are the sole source
    provider of engines for the baseline JASSM system. Production
    funding on the JASSM is forecasted to improve in 2011, resulting
    in higher sales for 2011.•Our J700 engine provides the turbine power for the Improved
    Tactical Air Launched Decoy (“ITALD”) built for the
    U.S. Navy. The ITALD system enhances combat aircraft
    survivability by both serving as a decoy and identifying enemy
    radar sources. Several international customers of the baseline
    TALD (unpowered) are considering an upgrade to the ITALD
    (powered) variant.•In 2010, we continued to work on advanced technology for small
    turbine engines and components under contract to the
    U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory sponsored Versatile
    Advanced Affordable Turbine Engine (VAATE) program. Advanced
    technology engine and component demonstrators sponsored under
    VAATE II will continue to be developed for the next generation
    cruise missile and UAVs.



Discontinued
    Operations



On December 11, 2010, we entered into an agreement to sell
    our piston engines businesses, which businesses are summarized
    below, to Technify Motor (USA) Ltd, a subsidiary of China-based
    AVIC International Holding Corporation. We have classified our
    piston engines operations as a discontinued operation. Such
    divestiture is, however, subject to closing conditions.



Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., we
    design, develop and manufacture piston engines, ignition
    systems, and aftermarket engines and spare parts for general
    aviation airframe manufacturers and the aftermarket. We are one
    of two primary worldwide original equipment producers of piston
    aircraft engines for the general aviation marketplace.





•We offer a complete line of piston engines that power some of
    the most advanced and successful piston engine powered aircraft
    in the world. Our current certified OEM products  include
    engines for the Cirrus SR-20 and SR-22, the Diamond DA20, Cessna
    350 Corvalis and 400 Corvalis series (formerly built by Columbia
    Aircraft Company), the Liberty XL2, the Beechcraft Bonanza and
    Baron aircraft, Mooney Ovation and Acclaim lines, and the Piper
    Seneca V twin-engine aircraft. Our O-200 Light Weight air-cooled
    engine powers Cessna Aircraft Company’s Light Sport
    Aircraft known as the SkyCatcher, which entered production and
    had its first customer delivery in 2009.



•In late 2009, Teledyne Continental Motors took the first steps
    to continue its technological leadership with the introduction
    of its TD300 Turbo Diesel engine for piston powered aircraft.
    Although readily available in the United States, aviation
    gasoline is not easily obtainable in many parts of the world.
    The introduction of a line of heavy fuel based engines will
    potentially improve the international desire for and
    competitiveness of American produced aircraft. In addition, the
    use of heavy fuels improves the fuel economy and potentially the
    emission characteristics of piston engines when compared to
    current gasoline fueled engine technology.



•In addition to the sales of OEM engines, we actively support the
    maintenance and replacement aircraft engine market. Our
    aftermarket support includes building and rebuilding of complete
    engines, as well as providing a full complement of spare parts
    such as cylinders, crankcases, fuel systems, crankshafts,
    camshafts and ignition products. Through our dedicated Factory
    Services Group, including Teledyne Mattituck Services, Inc.,
    with locations in Mattituck, New York and Fairhope, Alabama, we
    provide repairs and overhauls of piston engines and engine
    installations to the general aviation marketplace for both
    Teledyne Continental Motors and Textron Lycoming aircraft
    engines.







Customers



We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
    instrumentation, digital imaging, communications and aerospace
    and defense electronics industries. No commercial customer
    accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during 2010, 2009
    or 2008.



Approximately 44%, 47%, and 44% of our total sales for 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, were derived from contracts with
    agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government.
    Our principal U.S. Government customer is the
    U.S. Department of Defense. These sales represented 34%,
    36% and 32% of our total sales for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our largest program with
    the U.S. Government was the Systems Engineering and
    Technical Assistance contract with the Space and Missile Defense
    Command, and it represented 3.4%, 4.1% and 3.8% of total sales,
    respectively. Information on the Company’s sales to the
    U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime
    contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, are as follows
    (in millions):



201020092008Instrumentation$35.6$36.4$24.5Digital Imaging93.396.690.0Aerospace and Defense Electronics302.4287.0271.5Engineered Systems296.1357.8368.5Total U.S. Government sales$727.4$777.8$754.5





As described on pages 20 through 23, there are risks associated
    with doing business with the U.S. Government. In 2010,
    approximately 54% of our U.S. Government prime contracts
    and subcontracts were fixed-price type contracts, compared to
    50% in 2009 and 48% in 2008. Under these types of contracts, we
    bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed
    the fixed contract price. Such contracts are typically not
    subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail to anticipate
    technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs
    during performance. Additionally, U.S. Government contracts
    are subject to termination by the U.S. Government at its
    convenience, without identification of any default. When
    contracts are terminated for convenience, we typically recover
    costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on
    work completed prior to termination. We had two
    U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience in
    2010, compared to seven in 2009 and five in 2008.



Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately
    $863.8 million at January 2, 2011, $812.5 million
    at January 3, 2010 and $822.5 million at
    December 28, 2008. We expect to fulfill 98% of such backlog
    of confirmed orders during 2011.



Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 29%
    of total sales in 2010, compared with 26% in 2009 and 24% in
    2008. In 2009, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign
    countries. Approximately 90 percent of our sales to foreign
    customers were made to customers in 28 foreign countries. The
    2010 top five countries for international sales, which included
    the United Kingdom, Norway, Germany, China and Canada,
    constituted approximately 15.9% of our total sales.



Raw
    Materials and Suppliers



Generally, our businesses have experienced minimal fluctuations
    in the supply of raw materials, but not without some price
    volatility. While some of our businesses provide services, for
    those businesses that sell hardware and product, a portion of
    the value that we provide is labor oriented, such as design,
    engineering, assembly and test activities. In manufacturing our
    products, we use our own production capabilities and also third
    party suppliers and subcontractors, including international
    sources. Some of the items we purchase for the manufacture of
    our products, including certain gyro components for some marine
    navigation applications, certain magnets and helix wire for our
    traveling wave tubes and certain infrared detectors substrates
    are purchased from limited or single sources, including
    international sources, due to technical capability, price and
    other factors. While over the years we have not experienced much
    difficulty in procuring raw materials, components,
    sub-assemblies and other supplies required in our manufacturing
    processes, continuing disruption





in the global economy and financial markets could trigger
    increased pricing and otherwise affect our suppliers as well as
    our ability to procure some supplies.



Sales and
    Marketing



Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by
    products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the
    commitment to work closely with our customers to understand
    their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and
    longer-term relationships.



Our segments use a combination of internal sales forces,
    distributors and commissioned sales representatives to market
    and sell our products and services. As part of on-going
    acquisition integration efforts, some of our Teledyne
    Instruments companies and other businesses have been working to
    consolidate or share internal sales and servicing efforts.
    Several Teledyne businesses have begun marketing and selling
    products collaboratively to similar customers to promote
    “one-stop” shopping under singular “brand”
    names, including Teledyne Oil & Gas, Teledyne Marine,
    Teledyne Nuclear and Teledyne Water Quality.



Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
    by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
    capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant
    trade shows and professional associations.



Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive
    bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to
    provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to
    competitive pricing.



Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other
    subsidiaries, the Company has established offices in foreign
    countries to facilitate international sales for various
    businesses.



Competition



We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and
    the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced
    products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in
    our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we
    have certain advantages that we believe help us compete
    effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of
    quality, product performance and reliability, technical
    expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
    potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
    larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do.



Research
    and Development



Our research and development efforts primarily involve
    engineering and design related to improving products and
    developing new products and technologies in the same or similar
    fields. We spent a total of $319.9 million in 2010,
    $374.8 million in 2009 and $391.7 million in 2008 on
    research and development and bid and proposal costs.
    Customer-funded research and development, most of which was
    attributable to work under contracts with the
    U.S. Government, represented approximately 81% of total
    research and development costs for 2010, compared with 84% and
    84% in 2009 and 2008, respectively.



In 2010, we incurred $61.3 million in Company-funded
    research and development and bid and proposal costs. We expect
    the level of Company-funded research and development and bid and
    proposal costs to be approximately $99.9 million in 2011.



Intellectual
    Property



While we own and control various intellectual property rights,
    including patents, trade secrets, confidential information,
    trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the
    aggregate, are of material importance to our business, we
    believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent
    upon any one intellectual property or related group of such
    properties. We own several hundred active patents and are
    licensed to use certain patents, technology and other
    intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others.
    Similarly,





other companies are licensed to use certain patents, technology
    and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
    us.



Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire
    or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
    their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or
    termination of these patents, patent applications and license
    agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations or financial condition.



Employees



Overall, we consider our relations with our employees to be
    good. Our total current workforce consists of approximately
    9,200 employees. This number includes approximately
    1,000 employees added in connection with our DALSA
    acquisition and approximately 400 employees who are part of
    our discontinued operations.



The International Union of United Automobile, Aerospace and
    Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents
    approximately 250 active employees at our Teledyne Continental
    Motors piston engines manufacturing facility in Mobile, Alabama,
    part of discontinued operations, under a collective bargaining
    agreement that expires by its terms on March 20, 2013. This
    union also represents approximately 10 active employees at the
    Teledyne Turbine Engines facility in Toledo, Ohio under a
    collective bargaining agreement that expires on November 8,
    2014. If the sale of our general aviation piston engines
    businesses occurs, the Mobile, Alabama collective bargaining
    agreement will be included with the sale.



Executive
    Management



Teledyne’s executive management includes:





Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 Years



Executive Officers:

Robert Mehrabian*Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Director69Dr. Mehrabian has served as Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Teledyne for more than five years. He is a
    director of Teledyne, Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and
    PPG Industries, Inc. On February 8, 2011, Dr. Mehrabian
    notified The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation that he plans
    to retire as a director on April 12, 2011.

John T. Kuelbs*Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary68Mr. Kuelbs has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Teledyne since September 1, 2005. Prior to
    that, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of Teledyne.

Dale A. Schnittjer*Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer66Mr. Schnittjer has been Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Company since September 1, 2005. From
    January 27, 2004 to September 1, 2005, he was Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer of Teledyne.

Susan L. Main*Vice President and Controller52Ms. Main has been Vice President and Controller of the Company
    since March 2004.

Segment Management:

Aldo Pichelli*President and Chief Operating Officer, Instrumentation, Digital
    Imaging and Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segments58Mr. Pichelli has been President and Chief Operating Officer of
    each of Teledyne’s, Instrumentation, Digital Imaging and
    Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments since January 2,
    2011.  From September 1, 2007 to that date, he had been
    President and Chief Operating Officer of the Electronics and
    Communications segment.  From July 22, 2003 to that date, he was
    Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of that
    segment.







Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 Years



Rex D. Geveden*President, Engineered Systems Segment49Mr. Geveden has been the President of Teledyne Brown
    Engineering, Inc. and the Engineered Systems segment since
    August 1, 2007.  From January 1, 2008 through January 2, 2011,
    he had also been the President of the Energy and Power Systems
    segment, which as of January 2, 2011, was combined with the
    Engineered Systems segment (exclusive of Teledyne Battery
    Products which is now part of the Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics segment). Prior to that, Mr. Geveden served as the
    Associate Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space
    Administration (NASA) where he functioned as the agency’s
    chief operating officer. Prior to that, he served as NASA’s
    Chief Engineer and Deputy Director of NASA’s Marshall Space
    Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama.

Other Officers:

Stephen F. BlackwoodVice President and Treasurer48Mr. Blackwood has been Vice President and Treasurer of Teledyne
    since April 23, 2008. From March 2007 to April 2008, he was
    Treasurer and Senior Director of Investor Relations of MannKind
    Corporation, a biotechnology company.  From September 2005 until
    the sale of the company in December 2006, he was Vice President
    and Treasurer of Pacific Energy Partners, L.P., a MLP holding
    company. Prior to that, he was Director of Global Treasury at
    Amgen, Inc., a biotechnology company.

Ivars R. BlukisChief Business Risk Assurance Officer68Mr. Blukis has been the Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer
    since January 22, 2002 and is responsible for the internal audit
    function.

Melanie S. CibikVice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary51Miss Cibik has been Vice President, Associate General Counsel
    and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than five years.

Robyn E. McGowanVice President, Administration, Human Resources and Assistant
    Secretary46Ms. McGowan has been Vice President -- Administration, Human
    Resources and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than
    five years.

Patrick NevilleVice President and Chief Information Officer37Mr. Neville has been Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer since October 4, 2010. From January 2010 to June 2010,
    he was Director of IT Global Operations at Iberdrola S.A. and
    from January 2003 to December 2009 he was Vice President of
    Information Technology at Energy East Corporation.

Robert L. SchaeferAssociate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, Vice
    President and General Counsel of Instrumentation, Digital
    Imaging and Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segments65Mr. Schaefer has been an Associate General Counsel and an
    Assistant Secretary of Teledyne for more than five years.  Since
    January 2, 2011, he has been the Vice President and General
    Counsel of each of the Instrumentation, the Digital Imaging and
    the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments, having been the
    General Counsel of the Electronics and Communications segment
    for more than five years prior to its recent division.

Robert W. SteenbergeVice President and Chief Technology Officer63Mr. Steenberge became a Vice President of the Company on
    February 21, 2006, and has been Teledyne’s Chief Technology
    Officer for more than five years.

Jason VanWeesVice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations39Mr. VanWees has been Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations since February 21, 2006. Prior to that, he
    was Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations of
    Teledyne for more than five years.











*Such officers are subject to the reporting and other
    requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended.



Dr. Mehrabian and Teledyne have entered into a Fourth
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of
    January 21, 2009. Under the agreement, we will employ
    Dr. Mehrabian as the Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer through at least December 31, 2012,
    because 12 months notice of nonrenewal had not been given
    prior to the expiration of the term ended December 31,
    2010. The agreement automatically renews for a successive one
    year unless either party gives the other written notice of its
    election not to renew at least 12 months before the
    expiration of the current term or any successive renewal terms.
    If notice is given, Dr. Mehrabian would then retire on
    December 31st of the year following the 12th month
    after receipt of the notice. Under the agreement,
    Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base salary is $861,000. The
    agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is entitled to
    participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive bonus plan
    (“AIP”) and other executive compensation and benefit
    programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with a
    non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay
    him annually starting six months following his retirement and
    for a period of 10 years, as payments supplemental to any
    accrued pension under our qualified pension plan, an amount
    equal to 50% of his base compensation as in effect at retirement.



Sixteen current members of management have entered into change
    of control severance agreements. The agreements have a
    three-year, automatically renewing term, except as noted below.
    The executive is entitled to severance benefits if
    (1) there is a change in control of the Company and
    (2) within three months before or 24 months after the
    change in control, either we terminate the executive’s
    employment for reasons other than cause or the executive
    terminates the employment for good reason. “Severance
    benefits” currently consist of:





•A cash payment equal to three times (in the case of
    Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Kuelbs and Mr. Schnittjer) or
    two times (in the case of Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden
    and 11 other executives) the sum of (i) the
    executive’s highest annual base salary within the year
    preceding the change in control and (ii) the Annual
    Incentive Plan bonus target for the year in which the change in
    control occurs or the average actual bonus payout for the three
    years immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is
    higher (in the case of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli,
    Mr. Geveden and eight other executives) or the Annual
    Incentive Plan bonus target for the year in which the change in
    control occurs or the actual bonus payout for the year
    immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is higher
    (in the case of Mr. Kuelbs, Mr. Schnittjer and three
    other executives).



•A cash payment for the current Annual Incentive Plan bonus cycle
    based on the fraction of the year worked times the Annual
    Incentive Plan target objectives at 100% (in the case of
    Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and nine
    other executives) or 120% (in the case of Mr. Kuelbs,
    Mr. Schnittjer and three other executives) (with payment of
    the prior year bonus if not yet paid).



•Payment in cash for unpaid performance share program awards,
    assuming applicable goals are met at 120% of performance targets.



•Continued equivalent health and welfare (e.g., medical, dental,
    vision, life insurance and disability) benefits at our expense
    for a period of up to 36 months (24 months in some
    agreements) after termination (with the executive bearing any
    portion of the cost the executive bore prior to the change in
    control); provided, however, such benefits would be discontinued
    to the extent the executive receives similar benefits from a
    subsequent employer.



•Removal of restrictions on restricted stock issued under our
    restricted stock award programs.



•Full vesting under the Company’s pension plans (within
    legal parameters) such that the executive shall be entitled to
    receive the full accrued benefit under all such plans in effect
    as of the date of the change in control, without any actuarial
    reduction for early payment.



•Up to $25,000 ($15,000 in some agreements) reimbursement for
    actual professional outplacement services.







•Immediate vesting of all stock options, with options being
    exercisable for the full remainder of the term (in the case of
    Mr. Kuelbs, Mr. Schnittjer and three other executives,
    this immediate vesting of options takes place upon a change of
    control.)•In the case of Mr. Kuelbs, Mr. Schnittjer and three
    other executives, a“gross-up-payment”to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of
    federal excise taxes imposed on the executive as a result of the
    payments constituting an “excess parachute” as defined
    in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. In the case
    of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and
    eight other executives, the executive will receive the better
    of, on an after-tax basis, (a) the unreduced excess
    parachute payment with no tax gross up payment, or (b) a
    parachute payment reduced to a level below which an excise tax
    is imposed.



The agreements were amended as of December 31, 2008 to
    defer certain payments for six months following a separation of
    service to assure compliance with Section 409A of the
    Internal Revenue Code.



On or before February 25, 2011, Dr. Mehrabian,
    Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and eight other executives
    voluntarily agreed to amend and restate their agreements to
    conform the agreements to prevailing best practices. As compared
    to the prior agreements, as reflected above, the amended and
    restated change in control severance agreements contain four key
    changes or reductions as follows:



•Eliminate a “gross up payment” to hold the executive
    harmless against the impact, if any, of federal excise taxes
    imposed on executive as a result of “excess parachute”
    payments as defined in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue
    Code. Instead, the executive will receive the better of, on an
    after-tax basis, (a) the unreduced excess parachute payment
    with no tax gross up, or (b) a parachute payment reduced to
    a level below which an excise tax is imposed.•Change the “single trigger” vesting of stock options
    upon a change of control to a “double trigger”.•Change the formula for calculating the amount of severance:
    instead of the severance payment being a multiple of base salary
    plus bonus, with bonus being the higher of target or the most
    recent bonus payout, the severance payment will be a multiple of
    base salary plus bonus, with bonus being the higher of target or
    the prior three year average bonus.•Reduce the amount of short year bonus: instead of a short year
    bonus being calculated at maximum (i.e., two times target),
    short year bonus will be calculated at target.



On January 31, 2011, Teledyne also provided notice to
    Messrs. Kuelbs and Schnittjer and three other executives
    who did not agree to sign the amended and restated change in
    control agreement that it would not extend the term of their
    agreements, which action results in the termination of their
    existing change in control severance agreement three years from
    the date of such notice (January 31, 2014).



Effective April 22, 2009, the Company entered into
    individual Indemnification Agreements with directors and certain
    officers and executives of Teledyne, including those then
    members of Executive Management listed above. A total of
    25 persons have such agreements. Simply, the
    Indemnification Agreements provide the directors and executives
    who are parties to the agreements with a stand-alone contractual
    right to indemnification and expense advancement to the greatest
    extent allowable under Delaware law. Some further details
    include:



•In a third-party proceeding, an indemnitee is entitled to
    indemnification if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a
    manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to
    the best interests of the Company and, if in a criminal action
    or proceeding, if the indemnitee had no reason to believe that
    his or her conduct was unlawful. In a third party proceeding,
    the indemnification obligation covers reasonable expenses,
    judgment fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and
    reasonably incurred by the indemnity.•In proceedings by or in the name of the Company (e.g.,
    derivative suits), an indemnitee is entitled to indemnification
    if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he or she
    reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best
    interests of the Company. In derivative suits, the
    indemnification





obligation covers reasonable expenses, but in proceedings where
    the Company is alleging harm caused by the indemnitee, the
    indemnitee would generally not be entitled to be indemnified for
    judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (otherwise the
    Company would effectively not recover any damages), unless
    perhaps a Delaware or other court determines otherwise despite
    the finding of liability.



•An indemnitee is presumed to be entitled to indemnification,
    with the Company bearing the burden of proof to demonstrate
    otherwise.•The determination of an indemnitee’s entitlement to
    indemnification is to be made, at the Company’s expense, as
    follows:



•By (i) a majority vote of disinterested directors (or a
    committee thereof); (ii) if no disinterested directors are
    available or if they so direct, by independent legal counsel
    selected by the Board; or (iii) by a stockholder
    vote; or•Following a change of control or if the indemnitee requests, by
    independent legal counsel selected by the indemnitee (or, if the
    indemnitee chooses, the independent legal counsel can be
    selected by the Board).



•The Company has an obligation to advance, on an unsecured and
    interest free basis, reasonable expenses incurred by the
    indemnitee within 30 days of the indemnitee’s request.
    The indemnitee does not need to meet any standard of conduct to
    be entitled to advancement of expenses and there is no
    determination requirement to be made by the Board in connection
    with the advancements of expenses.•By signing the agreement, the indemnitee undertakes to repay any
    amounts advanced if it is ultimately determined that the
    indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification.



Our indemnification obligations do not cover the following
    situations:



•Where the indemnification payments have been made under
    Director’s & Officer’s insurance or other
    indemnification provisions;•Where the claim is based on disgorgement of short-swing profits
    under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act;•Where the claim is based on reimbursement by the indemnitee to
    the Company of a bonus or other incentive-based or equity-base
    compensation if required under the Exchange Act (e.g., in
    connection with a restatement as a result of the company’s
    noncompliance with the financial reporting requirements required
    by Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act); or•Where the proceeding is initiated by the indemnitee (other than
    proceedings that are consented to by the Board or that the
    indemnitee initiates against the Company to enforce the
    Agreement).



Under the Indemnification Agreements, in the event of a change
    in control or we reduce or do not renew our
    Director’s & Officer’s insurance coverage,
    we are required to purchase (or cause the acquirer or successor
    to the Company to purchase or maintain) a six-year tail policy,
    subject to a 200% premium cap. The agreements continue until the
    later of (i) 10 years after the indemnitee ceases to
    serve as a director or officer, and (ii) one year following
    the final termination of any proceeding subject to the agreement.



