Item 1.Business

Who We Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated provides enabling technologies for industrial growth markets. We have evolved from a company that was primarily focused on aerospace and defense to one that serves multiple markets that require advanced technology and high reliability. These markets include deepwater oil and gas exploration and production, oceanographic research, air and water quality environmental monitoring, electronics design and development, factory automation and medical imaging. Our products include monitoring and control instrumentation for marine and environmental applications, harsh environment interconnects, electronic test and measurement equipment, digital imaging sensors and cameras, aircraft information management systems, and defense electronics and satellite communication subsystems. We also supply engineered systems for defense, space, environmental and energy applications. We differentiate ourselves from many of our direct competitors by having a customer and company sponsored applied research center that augments our product development expertise.

Our principal executive offices are located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360-2362. Our telephone number is (805) 373-4545.  We are a Delaware corporation that was spun-off as an independent company on November 29, 1999.

Total sales in2015were$2,298.1 million, compared with$2,394.0 millionin2014and$2,338.6 millionin2013. Approximately74%of our total sales in2015were to commercial and international customers and the balance was to the U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or subcontractor. Approximately54%of these U.S. Government sales were attributable to fixed-price type contracts and the balance to cost-plus-fee type contracts. Sales to international customers accounted for approximately44%of total sales in2015.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets of instrumentation, digital imaging, aerospace and defense electronics and engineered systems. Our core markets are characterized by high barriers to entry and include specialized products and services not likely to be commoditized. We intend to strengthen and expand our core businesses with targeted acquisitions and through product development. We continue to focus on balanced and disciplined capital deployment among capital expenditures, acquisitions and share repurchases.  We aggressively pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins and earnings. At Teledyne, operational excellence includes the rapid integration of the businesses we acquire. Using complementary technology across our businesses and internal research and development, we seek to create new products to grow our company and expand our addressable markets. We continue to evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.



Our Recent Acquisitions

Consistent with our strategy, during 2015, we made acquisitions and investments totaling $66.7 million, which included the following:

To broaden our marine instrumentation capabilities:

•Bowtech Products Limited (“Bowtech”) - Bowtech, based in Aberdeen, Scotland designs and manufactures harsh underwater environment vision systems.

To expand our digital imaging capabilities:

•Industrial Control Machines SA (“ICM”) - ICM, based in Liège, Belgium, is a supplier of portable X-ray generators for non-destructive testing applications, as well as complete X-ray imaging systems for on-site security screening.

•Acquired the remaining 49% noncontrolling interest in the parent company of Optech Incorporated (“Optech”).











Our Business Segments

Our businesses are aligned in four segments: Instrumentation, Digital Imaging, Aerospace and Defense Electronics, and Engineered Systems. Financial information about our business segments can be found in Note 12 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The respective percentage contributions of our four business segments to our total sales in2015,2014and2013are summarized in the following table:Percentage of SalesSegment contribution to total sales (a)201520142013Instrumentation46%47%44%Digital Imaging16%17%18%Aerospace and Defense Electronics26%25%26%Engineered Systems12%11%12%Total100%100%100%

(a)See further discussion of our four segments in Note 12 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Instrumentation

Our Instrumentation segment provides monitoring and control instruments for marine, environmental, industrial and other applications, as well as electronic test and measurement equipment.  We also provide power and communications connectivity devices for distributed instrumentation systems and sensor networks deployed in mission critical, harsh environments.

Marine Instrumentation

We offer a variety of products designed for use in harsh underwater environments, instruments that measure currents and other physical properties in the water column, systems that create acoustic images of objects beneath the water’s surface, including the bottom of a body of water, and sensors that determine the geologic structure below the bottom.  We also design and manufacture vehicles that utilize and transport these sensors over and beneath the water’s surface.

We design and manufacture geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones, seismic energy sources and specialty products used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to locate oil and gas reserves beneath the ocean floor. Through our 2014 acquisition of Bolt Technology Corporation (“Bolt”), we are now a leading supplier of marine seismic energy sources and replacement parts for offshore energy exploration. Our Acoustic Doppler Current Profilers (“ADCPs”) precisely measure currents at varying depths in oceans and rivers, and our Doppler Velocity Logs (“DVLs”) are used for navigation by civilian and military surface ships, unmanned underwater vehicles and naval divers. In addition to our DVLs, which are acoustic navigation devices, we design and manufacture inertial sensing and navigation products, as well as subsea pipe and cable detection systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.  We also design and manufacture remotely-controlled and tethered instrumentation deployment vehicles used for current measurement, seafloor mapping and measurement of physical parameters such as salinity.

Additionally, we design and manufacture hydrographic survey instrumentation used in port surveys, dredging, pre- and post-installation of offshore energy infrastructure and other challenging underwater applications. Our multibeam sonar systems range from portable high-resolution systems used on autonomous underwater vehicles (“AUVs”) to full ocean depth vessel-mounted oceanographic systems.  Our multibeam sonar systems are used for creating highly accurate maps of underwater offshore constructions, wrecks or quay walls in harbors, and in particular, high-quality maps of the seafloor.  With advanced imaging capabilities, our sonars create images of hidden structures on the seafloor and are also used to create real-time images of the environment in the oceans and enable precise navigation of AUVs.  Our products are being utilized in both commercial and defense applications where we provide systems for detecting mines in the water.









We provide a broad range of end-to-end undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas, naval defense, oceanographic and telecom markets. We manufacture subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems and subsea pressure vessel penetrators and connector systems with glass-to-metal seals. Our water-proof and splash-proof neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable assemblies are used in underwater equipment and submerged monitoring systems.  We also manufacture subsea and topside pipeline corrosion and erosion monitoring detectors, subsea pressure and temperature sensors as well as flow integrity monitoring solutions for the oil and gas industry. These flow assurance sensors and equipment rely on our wet-mateable interconnect systems and our sensor feed-through systems. Our Teledyne Marine group and Teledyne Scientific Company continue to work collaboratively to improve the reliability of materials exposed to ultra deep-sea conditions.

Other marine products used by the U.S. Navy and commercial customers include acoustic modems for networked underwater communication and optical underwater cameras and LED lighting sources.

Using our acoustic technology, we also provide quality control and package integrity systems under the Taptone®  brand to the food and beverage, personal care and pharmaceutical industries.

We manufacture complete AUVs.  Our marine gliders use a silent buoyancy engine for propulsion that takes advantage of changes in buoyancy in conjunction with wings and tail steering to convert vertical motion to horizontal displacement, thereby propelling the system on a programmed route with very low power consumption. Glider applications range from oceanographic research to military persistent surveillance systems as part of a mobile underwater sensing and communication network. The modular design of our battery-powered, man-portable Gavia™  AUV allows for rapid sensor bay reconfiguration and battery replacement capability. Our Slocum gliders, as well as our ADCPs, are being used as part of the National Science Foundation’s Ocean Observatories Initiative to collect physical, chemical, geological and biological data from the ocean and the seafloor on coastal, regional and global scales. Through the SeaBotix business, we design and manufacture Inspection Class remotely operated vehicles (“ROVs”) used in maritime security, military, search and rescue, aquaculture, and scientific research applications.

Environmental Instrumentation

We offer a wide range of products used for environmental monitoring, instruments that enable measurement and monitoring of key air environmental parameters as well as gas purity and content for industrial and manufacturing applications, sensors for the measurement and monitoring of the physical and chemical properties of untreated water, and laboratory systems that improve sample acquisition, handling, and preparation for analysis.

Our instrumentation monitors trace levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, oxides of nitrogen and ozone in order to measure the quality of the air we breathe.  Our instrumentation also monitors particulate air pollution, and we supply environmental monitoring systems for the detection, measurement and automated reporting of air pollutants from industrial stack emissions. We serve the process control and monitoring needs of industrial plants with instruments that include gas analyzers, and vacuum and flow measurement devices.  We were a pioneer in the development of precision trace oxygen analyzers, and we now manufacture a wide range of process gas and liquid analysis products for the measurement of process contaminants, hydrocarbons, combustibles, oil-in-water, moisture, pH and many other parameters. Our instrumentation is also used to detect a variety of water quality parameters. Our sampler products include portable, refrigerated and specialty samplers used in hazardous location applications.  Flow meters include ultrasonic, submerged probe, bubbler and area velocity models.  Laser technology is now part of our flow capabilities.  Our custom analyzer systems provide turn-key solutions to complex process monitoring and/or control applications found in petrochemical and refinery facilities.

We provide laboratory instrumentation that complements our process or field environmental instrumentation. We manufacture laboratory instrumentation that automates the preparation and concentration of organic samples for the analysis of trace levels of volatile organic compounds by a gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer. We also provide laboratory instrumentation for the detection of total organic carbon and total nitrogen in water and wastewater samples. In addition, we provide inductively coupled plasma laboratory spectrometers, atomic absorption spectrometers, mercury analyzers and calibration standards.  We also provide laboratory automation and sample introduction systems. Our advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other environmental and geological samples. Our high-precision, high pressure syringe pumps measure process extraction rates of fluids ranging from liquefied gases to viscous tars. In addition, we manufacture liquid chromatography instruments and accessories for the purification of organic compounds, which since our 2015 acquisition of a product line include highly sensitive evaporative light scanning detectors. Our liquid chromatography customers include pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and development.









Test and Measurement Instrumentation

Since our August 2012 acquisition of LeCroy Corporation (“LeCroy”), we develop, manufacture, sell and license high-performance oscilloscopes and high-speed protocol analyzers for various computer communication links.  We also provide related test and measurement equipment, probes, accessories and application solutions.  To a lesser extent, we provide extended warranty contracts, maintenance contracts and repairs and calibrations on our instruments after their warranties expire.

Our oscilloscopes are tools used by designers and engineers to measure and analyze complex electronic signals in order to develop high-performance systems, validate electronic designs and improve time to market. We offer eight families of real-time oscilloscopes, which address different needs: HDO4000/HDO6000/HDO8000, our 12-bit, high-definition oscilloscopes; LabMaster and WaveMaster, our industry leading high-end oscilloscope family; WavePro, which is targeted at the mid-to high-range performance sector; WaveRunner, designed for the general purpose and bench-top sector; WaveSurfer designed for users in the lower bandwidth bench-top sector of the market; WaveJet, designed for value-oriented users in the  economy sector of the market; and WaveAce, our entry-level oscilloscope products.

In 2014, we released the world’s first 100GHz real-time scope, aimed at applications such as high-speed optical communications, and we extended our line of 12-bit oscilloscopes to include an eight channel product with specialized capabilities for analyzing power and efficiency of motors and the associated drive circuitry.  In 2015, we introduced the IQS series of Coherent Optical Receivers, featuring the industry's highest bandwidth - these products extend our technology leadership in optical modulation analysis.

Our protocol analyzers are used by designers and engineers to reliably and accurately monitor communications traffic and diagnose operational problems in a variety of communications devices to ensure that they comply with industry standards.

We manufacture torque sensors and automatic data acquisition systems that are used to test critical control valves in nuclear power and industrial plants.

Our test and measurement products are sold into a broad range of industry sectors, including computer, semiconductor, consumer electronics, power electronics, data storage, automotive, industrial, military, aerospace and telecommunications. We believe our test and measurement products address the needs of designers in all of these industry sectors in developing products that rely on increasingly complex electronic signals.

Digital Imaging

Our Digital Imaging segment includes high-performance sensors, cameras and systems, within the visible, infrared, ultraviolet and X-ray spectra for use in industrial, government and medical applications, as well as micro electro-mechanical systems (“MEMS”). It also includes our sponsored and centralized research laboratories benefiting government programs and businesses.

Additionally, we produce and provide manufacturing services for MEMS. The majority of our semiconductor manufacturing capacity is consumed by external customers with the remaining capacity applied towards supplying unique CCD and microbolometer (for long-wave infrared detection) fabrication services for our internal image sensor requirements.

Our Digital Imaging segment also provides Light Detection and Ranging (“LIDAR”) systems for airborne terrestrial mapping, mobile mapping, bathymetry and laser-based 3D imaging applications through our now wholly-owned subsidiary, Optech.  These imaging and mapping systems are used by commercial and government customers serving energy, natural resources and infrastructure applications.









We provide research and engineering capabilities primarily in the areas of electronics, materials, optical systems, and information science to military, aerospace and industrial customers, as well as to various businesses throughout Teledyne. We receive funding from the Defense Advanced Research Products Agency (“DARPA”), the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity (“IARPA”), and various other U.S. Department of Defense funding agencies, and we collaborate with researchers at universities and national laboratories to stay at the forefront of emerging technologies. We have developed high-speed electronics, MEMS sensors and actuators, advanced functional and structural materials, liquid-crystal based optical devices, and image processing algorithms.

We produce advanced focal plane arrays, sensors, and subsystems that cover a broad spectrum of frequencies from X-ray wavelengths to 18 micron long-wave infrared wavelengths. We develop image processing algorithms and manufacture compact mid-wave and short-wave infrared camera systems.  We are a leader in the development and production of large format focal plane array sensors for astronomy, military, commercial and space science markets.

We deliver advanced imaging solutions to the U.S. Department of Defense, NASA, prime system integrators, foreign space agencies and commercial customers.  Our sensor technologies are on weather satellites, are orbiting the moon and Mars, are on spacecraft involved in the Pluto flyby and on asteroid missions, and can be found in nearly every major ground-based observatory telescope.  In the U.S. defense arena, our sensors are integrated into several major systems for space surveillance, persistent surveillance, chemical detection and target identification, among others.  We have developed various sensors, subassemblies and cameras for air- and ground-based applications, including hyperspectral sensors for long-wave infrared and for simultaneous visible-shortwave infrared applications. We also design and manufacture advanced military laser eye protection spectacles.  Finally, we develop low-noise, high-performance cameras for use in commercial laboratory instrumentation.

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides sophisticated electronic components and subsystems and communications products, including defense electronics, harsh environment interconnects, data acquisition and communications equipment for aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless and satellite communications, as well as general aviation batteries.

We provide a range of microwave products ranging from components to highly integrated subsystems and solutions to our customers.  Our helix traveling wave tubes, commonly called TWTs, used to provide broadband power amplification of microwave signals. Military applications include radar, electronic warfare and satellite communication. We make TWTs for commercial applications as well, such as electromagnetic compatibility test equipment and satellite communication terminals.  We also provide high-power solid-state TWT replacement amplifiers and complete amplifiers that incorporate a TWT and a power supply.

We design and manufacture solid state radio frequency (“RF”) and microwave components and subassemblies used in a wide variety of applications.  As components which form the building blocks for electronic systems, we produce amplifiers, voltage-controlled oscillators, YIGs, BAWs, low-noise amplifiers (“LNAs”), microwave mixers, and detectors using LDMOS, GaAs, GaN, InP, and SiC technologies.  These components form the basis for our line of solid state power amplifiers, RF converters, and modems which are used in systems that provide communications links between ground stations, mobile units, UAVs, and orbiting satellites. Such products are also used in mobile telephone, TV broadcast and commercial data communications networks.  In addition, we also provide higher level microwave subsystems and systems for electronic warfare, UAV, radar and military communication applications.

We supply a variety of connectors and cable assemblies, including specialized high voltage connectors and subassemblies and coax microwave cable and connectors, for defense, aerospace and industrial applications.  Additionally, we produce pilot helmet mounted display components and subsystems for the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System (“JHMCS”) used in the F-15, F-16 and F-18 aircrafts. The JHMCS system is a multi-role system designed to enhance pilot situational awareness and provides visual control of aircraft targeting systems and sensors. We manufacture microprocessor-controlled aircraft ejection seat sequencers and related support elements to military aircraft programs. We also provide initiators and electronic safe and arm devices for use in military applications.









We provide specialty electronic manufacturing services. We develop and manufacture custom microelectronic modules that provide both high reliability and extremely dense packaging for military applications. We also develop custom tamper-resistant microcircuits designed to provide enhanced security in military communication. We serve the market for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of sophisticated military electronics equipment. We manufacture advanced packaging solutions for military and commercial aircraft using rigid and rigid-flex printed circuit boards.

We supply electromechanical relays, solid state power relays and coaxial switching devices to military, aerospace and other industrial markets. Applications include microwave and wireless communication infrastructure, RF and general broadband test equipment, test equipment used in semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial and commercial machinery and control equipment. On commercial aircraft, our solid state and electromechanical relays are used in a variety of applications, including jet engine fuel control, management of control surfaces and other on-board applications.

We are a leading supplier of digital flight data acquisition and analysis systems to the civil aviation market. These systems acquire data for use by the aircraft’s flight data recorder as well as record additional data for the airline’s operation, such as aircraft and engine condition monitoring. We provide the means to transfer this data, using Teledyne’s patented wireless technology, from the aircraft to the airline operation center. We also design and manufacture airborne networking products, including servers, as well as aircraft data loading equipment, flight line maintenance terminals and data distribution software used by commercial airlines and the U.S. military.  In 2013, the Boeing Company awarded us a single source contract to develop and supply the next generation of aircraft data acquisition and information management systems for the majority of future Boeing commercial aircraft.  The first of these products, a network file server, was certified in January 2016 and production deliveries have begun.  An enhanced digital flight data acquisition unit is expected to be certified in the third quarter of 2016, with production deliveries to follow.  We also provide lead acid aircraft batteries for general aviation, and business and light jet applications.

Engineered Systems

Our Engineered Systems segment provides innovative systems engineering and integration and advanced technology development as well as manufacturing solutions for defense, space, environmental and energy applications. This segment also designs and manufactures electrochemical energy systems and small turbine engines.

Engineered Products and Services

Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. is a well-recognized whole life-cycle space, missile defense, marine systems, and energy company.  With changes in U.S. fiscal policy, we have been working to shift its focus from chiefly supporting U.S. Government space and defense programs to increasing its commercial portfolio.

We lead and support air and missile defense programs, including the Objective Simulation Framework (“OSF”) and Test Execution Services and Launch Augmentation programs (“TESTLA”).  As the Missile Defense Agency (“MDA”) prime contractor for the OSF contract, we design, develop, test, implement and maintain the OSF. The OSF is being designed to support full scale simulations, ground tests and live fire events throughout the life cycle of the Ballistic Missile Defense System.  Under the 2013-awarded TESTLA contract, we will continue development, manufacturing and integration of product solutions in support of the war-fighter.

We specialize in marine systems design and manufacturing.  For the U.S. Special Operations Command, we are the prime contractor engaged to design, develop, test, manufacture and sustain the Shallow Water Combat Submersible (“SWCS”) vehicle to replace the current SEAL Delivery Vehicle.  With the design of the SWCS engineering development model vehicle having been completed in 2015, we have started the development test phase and expect the low-rate initial production phase to begin later in 2016.   We are producing the Littoral Battlespace Sensing Glider (“LBS-G”) system for the U.S. Navy Program Executive Office - Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence (“PEO-C4I”).  Teledyne Webb Research is the glider developer and manufacturer on the LBS-G program.  We manufacture gun mounts for the Littoral Combat Ship program.  Under contract to Raytheon Company, we continue to manufacture advanced mine detection and neutralization systems.

We are active in U.S. space programs and continue to play a vital role in the science operations area of the International Space Station (“ISS”) program. We provide 24-hour-per-day payload operations in the ISS Payload Operations and Integration Center located at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center.  In 2012, NASA awarded us a cooperative agreement to foster the commercial utilization of the ISS.  Under this agreement, we continue to work to develop a commercial earth imaging platform known as the Multi-User System for Earth Imaging (“MUSES”); the launch of which is now expected to occur in 2017.  We also design, develop, and manufacture components for liquid rocket engines, scientific payloads and human space flight vehicles.









We operate a full service radiological analysis laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee, which principally supports nuclear power plants in the United States.  We also manage and operate a separation, purification and analysis of atmospheric samples laboratory for the U.S. Government. Additionally, we provide engineering and manufacturing for customers in the commercial nuclear market.

Continuing our historic facilities and plant management services to the commercial arena, in December 2015, we extended by another three years our lab and office facility management contract with The Dow Chemical Company.   We currently lead on-site and off-site management and support of research services at three Dow Chemical research facilities.

We manufacture products that are primarily highly engineered and high-quality machined and metal fabricated components and assemblies for external customers across the spectrum of our core business base, including NASA, the U.S. Department of Defense customers and the U.S. Department of Energy, as well as commercial customers. Through our  U.K.-based operations, we manufacture advanced composites for the government and commercial aviation customers.

Energy Systems

We manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas generators used worldwide in electrical power generation plants, semiconductor manufacturing, optical fiber production, chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other industrial processes. Our sales of hydrogen generators have been primarily in developing countries and domestic applications where delivered merchant gas is not practical.  We also provide thermoelectric and electrochemical energy technology solutions for use in U.S. Government programs.

Turbine Engines

We design, develop and manufacture small turbine engines primarily used in tactical missiles for military markets. Our engines power the Boeing/U.S. Navy Harpoon and Standoff Land Attack Missile systems, and we are the sole source provider of engines for the baseline Lockheed Martin/U.S. Air Force Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”). We also continue to work on advanced technology for small turbine engines and components for programs sponsored by the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory.

Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the various industries we serve.  No commercial customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales, nor more than 10% of any segment sales, during2015,2014or2013.  Our largest commercial customer, a customer of our Instrumentation segment, accounted for2.3%,2.8%and3.6%of total sales in2015,2014and2013, respectively.

Sales to international customers accounted for approximately44%of total sales in2015, compared with45%in2014and44%in2013. In2015, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign countries. Approximately 90% of our sales to foreign-based customers were made to customers in 25 foreign countries. The2015top five countries for international sales were theUnited Kingdom,Norway,China,GermanyandSouth Koreaand constituted approximately21%of our total sales.

Approximately26%,25%and27%of our total sales for2015,2014and2013, respectively, were derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Information on our sales to the U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, is as follows (in millions):

U.S. Government sales by segment:201520142013Instrumentation$61.2$38.6$40.6Digital Imaging78.9102.2120.2Aerospace and Defense Electronics223.5245.3260.2Engineered Systems234.4221.8209.2Total U.S. Government sales$598.0$607.9$630.2

Our principal U.S. Government customer is the U.S. Department of Defense. These sales represented19%,20%and21%of our total sales for2015,2014and2013, respectively.  In 2015, our largest program with the U.S. Government was the Engineering Solutions and Prototyping contract with the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, which represented 1.5% of our total sales.  In 2014 and 2013, our largest program with the U.S. Government was the Objective Simulation Framework contract with the Missile Defense Agency, which represented 1.3% and 1.4% of our total sales, respectively.









As described under risk factors, there are risks associated with doing business with the U.S. Government. In2015, approximately54%of our U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts were fixed-price type contracts, compared to58%in2014and60%in2013. Under these types of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. Such contracts are typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance. Additionally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. Government at its convenience, without identification of any default. When contracts are terminated for convenience, we typically recover costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. We hadeightU.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience in2015, compared withthreein2014andfourin2013.

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately$802.8 millionatJanuary 3, 2016, compared with$944.6 millionatDecember 28, 2014, and$941.2 millionatDecember 29, 2013. We expect to fulfill96%of such backlog of confirmed orders during 2016.

Seasonality

No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal.

Raw Materials and Suppliers

Generally, our businesses have experienced minimal fluctuations in the supply of raw materials, but not without some price volatility. While some of our businesses provide services, for those businesses that sell hardware and product, a portion of the value that we provide is labor-oriented, such as design, engineering, assembly and test activities. In manufacturing our products, we use our own production capabilities and also third party suppliers and subcontractors, including international sources. Some of the items we use for the manufacture of our products, including certain gyro components for some marine navigation applications, certain magnets and helix wire for our traveling wave tubes and certain infrared detectors substrates, certain ceramics and molding compounds used in our sonar systems, as well as certain scintillator materials used in the production of our X-ray detectors, are purchased from limited or single sources, including international sources, due to technical capability, price and other factors. While over the years we have not experienced much difficulty in procuring raw materials, components, sub-assemblies and other supplies required in our manufacturing processes, disruption in the global economy and financial markets could trigger increased pricing or otherwise affect our suppliers and negatively impact our ability to procure such supplies.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the commitment to work closely with our customers to understand their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and longer-term relationships.

Our segments use a combination of internal sales forces, third-party distributors and commissioned sales representatives to market and sell our products and services.  Our Teledyne Instruments companies and other businesses have been working over the years to consolidate or share internal sales and servicing efforts.  Several Teledyne businesses have been marketing and selling products collaboratively to similar customers to promote “one-stop” shopping under singular “brand” names, including Teledyne Marine, Teledyne Oil & Gas, Teledyne Water Quality and Teledyne Microwave Solutions.

Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and by means of various websites. To promote our products and other capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to competitive pricing.

Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other subsidiaries, we have established offices in foreign countries to facilitate international sales for various businesses. Locations include Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates.









Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we have certain advantages that we believe help us compete effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly competitive.  With regard to our defense businesses, it is common in the defense industry for work on programs to be shared among a number of companies, including competitors.  In any event, because of the diversity of products sold and the number of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors, none of which we believe offer all of the same product and service lines or serve all of the same markets as we do.  Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of quality, product performance and reliability, technical expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we do.

Research and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve engineering and design related to improving existing products and developing new products and technologies in the same or similar fields. We spent a total of$476.6 millionin2015,$428.8 millionin2014and$388.2 millionin2013on research and development and bid and proposal costs. Customer-funded research and development, most of which was attributable to work under contracts with the U.S. Government, represented approximately66%of total research and development costs for2015, compared with61%of total research and development costs for2014and57%in2013.

In2015, we incurred$163.7 millionin Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal costs. We expect the level of Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal costs to be approximately$175.0 millionin 2016.

Intellectual Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, we believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or related group of such properties. We own several hundred active patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by us.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or termination of these patents, patent applications and license agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Employees

We consider our relations with our employees to be good. AtJanuary 3, 2016, our total workforce consisted of approximately9,200employees, of which approximately7,000employees were located in the United States.









Executive Management

Teledyne’s executive management includes:





Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 Years

Executive Officers:

Robert Mehrabian*Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Director74Dr. Mehrabian has served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne for more than five years.

Aldo Pichelli*Chief Operating Officer64Mr. Pichelli has been the Chief Operating Officer of Teledyne since October 6, 2015.  Prior to his promotion, Mr. Pichelli had been an Executive Vice President of Teledyne having responsibility for the Instrumentation and Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments since July 1, 2013.  Prior to that, he had been President and Chief Operating Officer of Teledyne’s Instrumentation and Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments since January 2, 2011. From September 1, 2007, to that date, he had been President and Chief Operating Officer of the former Electronics and Communications segment.

Melanie S. Cibik*                                        Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary56Miss Cibik has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teledyne since September 1, 2012.  For more than five years prior to that, she had been Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Teledyne.

Susan L. Main*                                                        Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer57Ms. Main has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Teledyne since November 19, 2012.  For more than five years prior to that, she had been Vice President and Controller of Teledyne.

Cynthia Belak*Vice President and Controller59Ms. Belak has been Vice President and Controller of Teledyne since May 6, 2015.  Prior to her promotion, Ms. Belak had been Vice President, Business Risk Assurance of Teledyne since January 24, 2012.  Prior to that, since January 4, 2010, Ms. Belak had been Group Controller within the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment.

Jason VanWees*Senior Vice President, Strategy and Mergers & Acquisitions44Mr. VanWees has been Senior Vice President, Strategy and Mergers & Acquisitions since July 1, 2013.  Prior to his promotion, he had been Vice President, Strategy and Mergers & Acquisitions since September 1, 2012.  Prior to that, he had been Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations of Teledyne for more than five years.

George C. Bobb III*Chief Compliance Officer, Vice President Information Technology and Deputy General Counsel for Litigation41Mr. Bobb has been Chief Compliance Officer, Vice President-Information Technology and Deputy General Counsel for Litigation of Teledyne since July 22, 2014.  Prior to that he had been Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Deputy General Counsel for Litigation since September 1, 2012. Prior to that, he had been an Associate General Counsel of Teledyne and the General Counsel of the Engineered Systems and Digital Imaging segments since August 2011. Since December 20, 2011, he has been Teledyne’s Chief Ethics Officer. Prior to that, he held numerous legal roles since he joined Teledyne in July 2008.















Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 Years

Other Officers:

Carl AdamsVice President, Business RiskAssurance46Mr. Adams has been Vice President, Business Risk Assurance of Teledyne since May 6, 2015.  Prior to that, upon joining Teledyne on April 22, 2015, he was Senior Director, Finance.  From March 2014 to March 2015, he was the Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of NeuroSigma, Inc., a developer of neurological disorder treatments.  From January 2014 to March 2014, he was the Corporate Controller and Vice President for NeuroSigma, Inc.  From April 2011 to January 2014, he was a founding partner of Technical Accounting and Controllership Solutions, LLP and from April 2008 to April 2011, he was a practice leader at CNM LLP.

Stephen F. BlackwoodVice President and Treasurer53Mr. Blackwood has been Vice President and Treasurer of Teledyne for more than five years.

Anna Segobia MastersVice President, Human Resources and  Deputy General Counsel57Ms. Masters has been Vice President, Human Resources and Deputy General Counsel of Teledyne since joining on July 7, 2014.  For more than five years prior to that, Ms. Masters served as a partner in the Los Angeles office of the law firm Winston & Strawn LLP, focusing on employment law matters.

Edwin RoksVice President and President, Teledyne DALSA51Mr. Roks has been a Vice President of Teledyne since January 2, 2014 and President of Teledyne DALSA, Inc. since October 6, 2015.  From January 2, 2014 to October 6, 2015, Mr. Roks had been the Chief Technology Officer of Teledyne.  Prior to that since April 2010, Mr. Roks served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the professional imaging division of Teledyne DALSA, Inc. (formerly known as DALSA Corporation).

*Such officers are subject to the reporting and other requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Dr. Robert Mehrabian and Teledyne are parties to a Fifth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of October 22, 2013, which was amended on September 28, 2015.  Under the amended agreement, we will employ Dr. Mehrabian as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne through December 31, 2019, at an annual base salary that is currently $955,000. The agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is entitled to participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive bonus plan (“AIP”) and other executive compensation and benefit programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with a non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay him annually starting six months following his retirement and for a period of 10 years, as payments supplemental to any accrued pension under our qualified pension plan, an amount equal to 50% of his base compensation as in effect on retirement.

Eleven current members of management (including the named executives) have entered into change of control severance agreements. The agreements have a three-year, automatically renewing term, except as noted below. The executive is entitled to severance benefits if (1) there is a change in control of the Company and (2) within three months before or 24 months after the change in control, either we terminate the executive’s employment for reasons other than cause or the executive terminates the employment for good reason. “Severance benefits” currently consist of:

•A cash payment equal to three times in the case of Dr. Mehrabian or two times in the other cases the sum of (i) the executive’s highest annual base salary within the year preceding the change in control and (ii) the Annual Incentive Plan bonus target for the year in which the change in control occurs or the average actual bonus payout for the three years immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is higher.

•A cash payment for the current Annual Incentive Plan bonus cycle based on the fraction of the year worked times the Annual Incentive Plan target objectives at 100%.

•Payment in cash for unpaid performance share program awards, assuming applicable goals are met at 120% of performance targets.









•Continued equivalent health and welfare (e.g., medical, dental, vision, life insurance and disability) benefits at our expense for a period of up to 36 months (24 months in some agreements) after termination (with the executive bearing any portion of the cost the executive bore prior to the change in control); provided, however, such benefits would be discontinued to the extent the executive receives similar benefits from a subsequent employer.

•Removal of restrictions on restricted stock issued under our restricted stock award programs.

•Full vesting under the Company’s pension plans (within legal parameters) such that the executive shall be entitled to receive the full accrued benefit under all such plans in effect as of the date of the change in control, without any actuarial reduction for early payment.

•Up to $25,000 ($15,000 in some agreements) reimbursement for actual professional outplacement services.

•Immediate vesting of all stock options, with options being exercisable for the full remainder of the term.

•There is no “gross up payment” to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of federal excise taxes imposed on executive as a result of “excess parachute” payments as defined in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. The executive will receive the better of, on an after-tax basis, (a) the unreduced excess parachute payment with no tax gross up payment, or (b) a parachute payment reduced to a level below which an excise tax is imposed.

•Certain payments are deferred for six months following a separation of service to assure compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.

The Company has entered into individual Indemnification Agreements with directors and certain officers and executives of Teledyne, including those members of Executive Management listed above. The Indemnification Agreements provide the directors and executives who are parties to the agreements with a stand-alone contractual right to indemnification and expense advancement to the greatest extent allowable under Delaware law. The Indemnification Agreements also provide:

•In a third-party proceeding, an indemnitee is entitled to indemnification if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, if in a criminal action or proceeding, if the indemnitee had no reason to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. In a third party proceeding, the indemnification obligation covers reasonable expenses, judgment fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by the indemnity.

•In proceedings by or in the name of the Company (e.g., derivative suits), an indemnitee is entitled to indemnification if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company. In derivative suits, the indemnification obligation covers reasonable expenses, but in proceedings where the Company is alleging harm caused by the indemnitee, the indemnitee would generally not be entitled to be indemnified for judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (otherwise the Company would effectively not recover any damages), unless a Delaware or other court determines otherwise despite the finding of liability.

•The Company has an obligation to advance, on an unsecured and interest free basis, reasonable expenses incurred by the indemnitee within 30 days of the indemnitee’s request. The indemnitee does not need to meet any standard of conduct to be entitled to advancement of expenses and there is no determination requirement to be made by the Board in connection with the advancements of expenses. An indemnity must repay any amounts advanced if it ultimately determined that the indemnity is not entitled to indemnification.

Our indemnification obligations do not cover the following situations: (1) where indemnification payments have been made under director’s and officer’s insurance or other indemnification provisions; (2) where the claim is based on disgorgement of short-swing profits under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act; (3) where the claim is based on reimbursement by the indemnitee to the Company of a bonus or other incentive-based or equity-based compensation if required under the Exchange Act (e.g., in connection with a restatement as a result of the Company’s noncompliance with the financial reporting requirements required by Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act); or (4) where the proceeding is initiated by the indemnitee (other than proceedings that are consented to by the Board or that the indemnitee initiates against the Company to enforce the Agreement).

Under the Indemnification Agreements, in the event of a change in control or we reduce or do not renew our director’s and officer’s insurance coverage, we are required to purchase (or cause the acquirer or successor to the Company to purchase or maintain) a six-year tail policy, subject to a 200% premium cap. The agreements continue until the later of (i) 10 years after the indemnitee ceases to serve as a director or officer, and (ii) one year following the final termination of any proceeding subject to the agreement.









Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, any Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC also maintains a website that contains these reports and other information we file, including our proxy statements, at

www.sec.gov

.   Any materials we file with the SEC may be viewed at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.  You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Global Code of Ethical Business Conduct, our Codes of Ethics for Financial Executives, Directors and Service Providers and the Charters of the standing committees of our Board of Directors are available on our website. We intend to post any amendments to or waivers of these policies, guidelines and charters on our website.  Our website address is



www.teledyne.com.

This information on our website is available free-of-charge.  Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any report we file with the SEC (without exhibits) or other document, please write to Melanie S. Cibik, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, at Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360-2362, and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you, free-of-charge.



