Item 1.Business.

Who We Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated provides enabling technologies for industrial growth markets. We have evolved from a company that was primarily focused on aerospace and defense to one that serves multiple markets that require advanced technology and high reliability. These markets include deepwater oil and gas exploration and production, oceanographic research, air and water quality environmental monitoring, electronics design and development, factory automation and medical imaging. Our products include monitoring and control instrumentation for marine and environmental applications, harsh environment interconnects, electronic test and measurement equipment, digital imaging sensors and cameras, aircraft information management systems, and defense electronic and satellite communication subsystems. We also supply engineered systems for defense, space, environmental and energy applications. We differentiate ourselves from many of our direct competitors by having a customer and company sponsored applied research center that augments our product development expertise.

Total sales in2012were$2,127.3 million, compared with$1,941.9 millionin2011and$1,644.2 millionin2010. Our aggregate segment operating profit and other segment income were $279.8 millionin2012, $260.9 millionin2011and $207.3 millionin2010. These amounts exclude discontinued operations related to our general aviation piston engine businesses that were sold in April 2011.  Approximately68%of our total sales in2012were to commercial customers and the balance was to the U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or subcontractor. Approximately59%of these U.S. Government sales were attributable to fixed-price type contracts and the balance to cost plus fee-type contracts. Sales to international customers accounted for approximately39%of total sales in2012.

Our businesses are divided into four business segments:  Instrumentation, Digital Imaging, Aerospace and Defense Electronics and Engineered Systems. Our four business segments and their respective percentage contributions to our total sales in2012,2011and2010are summarized in the following table:Percentage of SalesSegment201220112010Instrumentation35%32%35%Digital Imaging20188Aerospace and Defense Electronics313437Engineered Systems141620Total100%100%100%



Our principal executive offices are located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360-2362. Our telephone number is (805) 373-4545. We are a Delaware corporation that was spun-off as an independent company from Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated (now known as Allegheny Technologies Incorporated) on November 29, 1999.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets of instrumentation, digital imaging, aerospace and defense electronics and engineered systems. Our core markets are characterized by high barriers to entry and include specialized products and services not likely to be commoditized. We intend to strengthen and expand our core businesses with targeted acquisitions and through product development. We aggressively pursue operational excellence to continually improve our margins and earnings. At Teledyne, operational excellence includes the rapid integration of the businesses we acquire. Using complementary technology across our businesses and internal research and development, we seek to create new products to grow our company and expand our addressable markets. We continue to evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.











Our Recent Acquisitions

Consistent with our strategy, during 2012, we acquired:

•LeCroy Corporation (“LeCroy”)- LeCroy, headquartered in Chestnut Ridge, New York, is a leading supplier of oscilloscopes, protocol analyzers and signal integrity test solutions.  This acquisition broadened Teledyne's portfolio of analytical instrumentation with the addition of electronic test and measurement solutions.

•The parent company of PDM Neptec Limited (“PDM Neptec”)- PDM Neptec, located in Hampshire, United Kingdom, provides underwater cables and fiber optic and electrical subsea connectors.  This acquisition expanded our line of harsh-environment marine connectors, added additional engineering talent and strengthened our international sales channels.

•BlueView Technologies Inc. (“BlueView”) -BlueView, located in Seattle, Washington, provides compact forward-looking imaging sonar, microbathymetry systems and 3D scanning sonar.  BlueView's imaging sonars and microbathymetry systems further increased Teledyne's instrumentation content on autonomous underwater vehicles (“AUVs”) and remotely operated vehicles (“ROVs”) used in oil and gas and marine survey applications.

•A majority interest in the parent company of Optech Incorporated (“Optech”)- Optech, headquartered in Vaughan, Ontario, Canada, provides light detection and ranging (“LIDAR”) systems used in airborne terrestrial mapping, airborne laser bathymetry, mobile mapping and laser imaging.   Optech's LIDAR systems add 3D imaging to Teledyne's portfolio of visible, infrared, X-ray and ultraviolet sensors, cameras and software.  Optech's bathymetric LIDAR systems used for coastal mapping and shallow water profiling also complement our marine survey sensors and systems.

•VariSystems Inc. (“VariSystems”)- VariSystems, headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, Canada is a leading supplier of custom harsh environment interconnects used in energy exploration and production.   This acquisition further expanded Teledyne's portfolio of rugged interconnect solutions used in energy exploration and production and provides greater access to land-based energy markets, specifically hydraulic fracturing and oil sands applications.

In 2012, Teledyne spent $389.2 million on these acquisitions.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, any Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC also maintains a website that contains these reports atwww.sec.gov. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Global Code of Ethical Business Conduct, our Codes of Ethics for Financial Executives, Directors and Service Providers and the Charters of the standing committees of our Board of Directors are available on our website. We intend to post any amendments to these policies, guidelines and charters on our website.  Our website address iswww.teledyne.com.

You will be responsible for any costs normally associated with electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges. Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC report (without exhibits) or document, please write to Melanie S. Cibik, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360-2362, and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you, free-of-charge.

Our Business Segments

Our businesses are divided into four segments: Instrumentation, Digital Imaging, Aerospace and Defense Electronics, and Engineered Systems. Financial information about our business segments can be found in Note 13 to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Instrumentation

Our Instrumentation segment provides monitoring and control instruments for marine, environmental, industrial and other applications, as well as electronic test and measurement equipment.  We also provide power and communications connectivity devices for distributed instrumentation systems and sensor networks deployed in mission critical, harsh environments.









Marine Instrumentation

We offer a variety of underwater acoustic and other monitoring products. We design and manufacture geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and specialty products used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to locate oil and gas reserves beneath the ocean floor. Our Acoustic Doppler Current profilers (“ADCPs”) precisely measure currents at varying depths in oceans and rivers, and our Doppler Velocity Logs (“DVLs”) are used for navigation by civilian and military surface ships, unmanned underwater vehicles and naval divers. Additionally, we design and manufacture hydrographic survey instrumentation used in port surveys, dredging, pre and post-installation of offshore energy infrastructure and other challenging underwater applications. We manufacture a commercial multibeam echo sounder that incorporates a unique 24-bit analog to digital conversion process. We recently developed permanent reservoir monitoring subsystems for deepwater applications. In addition to our DVLs, which are acoustic navigation devices, we design and manufacture inertial sensing and navigation products, as well as subsea pipe and cable detection systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

We provide a broad range of end-to-end undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas, naval defense, oceanographic and telecom markets. We manufacture subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems and subsea pressure vessel penetrators and connector systems with glass-to-metal seals. Our water-proof and splash-proof neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable assemblies are used in underwater equipment and submerged monitoring systems. We also manufacture subsea and topside pipeline corrosion and erosion monitoring detectors as well as flow integrity monitoring solutions for the oil and gas industry. These flow assurance sensors and equipment rely on our wet-mateable interconnect systems and our sensor feed-through systems. Our Teledyne Oil & Gas group and Teledyne Scientific Company have been working collaboratively to improve the reliability of materials exposed to ultra deep sea conditions. In 2012, we received funding from a customer to develop a subsea high-power electrical interconnect system for a deepwater oil field in Brazil.  Additional funding has also been received from a customer for a deep water Gulf of Mexico application.

We offer a variety of marine instrumentation products used by the U.S. Navy and in energy exploration, oceanographic research and port and harbor security services. Our products include acoustic modems for networked underwater communication and sidescan and sub-bottom profiling sonar systems. Originally developed with our acoustic technology, we provide quality control and package integrity systems under the Taptone®brand to the food and beverage, personal care and pharmaceutical industries. We also manufacture complete autonomous underwater vehicle systems. Our marine gliders use a silent buoyancy engine for propulsion that takes advantage of changes in buoyancy in conjunction with wings and tail steering to convert vertical motion to horizontal displacement, thereby propelling the system on a programmed route with very low power consumption. Glider applications range from oceanographic research to military persistent surveillance systems as part of a mobile underwater sensing and communication network. The modular design of our battery-powered, man-portable Gavia™autonomous underwater vehicle allows for rapid sensor bay reconfiguration and battery replacement capability. Our Slocum gliders, as well as our ADCPs, are being used as part of the National Science Foundation's Ocean Observatories Initiative to collect physical, chemical, geological and biological data from the ocean and the seafloor on coastal, regional and global scales.

Environmental Instrumentation

We provide laboratory instrumentation that complements our process or field environmental instrumentation. We manufacture laboratory instrumentation that automates the preparation and concentration of organic samples for the analysis of trace levels of volatile organic compounds by a gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer. We also provide laboratory instrumentation for the detection of total organic carbon and total nitrogen in water and wastewater samples. In addition, we provide inductively coupled plasma laboratory spectrometers, atomic absorption spectrometers, mercury analyzers and calibration standards. The advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental and quality control laboratories to









detect trace levels of inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other environmental and geological samples. Our high precision, high pressure syringe pumps measure process extraction rates of fluids ranging from liquefied gases to viscous tars. Plus, we manufacture liquid chromatography instruments and accessories for the purification of organic compounds. Our liquid chromatography customers include pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and development.

Test and Measurement Instrumentation

With the August 3, 2012 acquisition of LeCroy, we now develop, manufacture, sell and license high-performance oscilloscopes and communication protocol analyzers.  We also provide related test and measurement equipment, probes, accessories and application solutions.  To a lesser extent, we provide extended warranty contracts, maintenance contracts and repairs and calibrations on our instruments after their warranties expire.

Our oscilloscopes are tools used by designers and engineers to measure and analyze complex electronic signals in order to develop high-performance systems, validate electronic designs and improve time to market. We offer eight families of real-time oscilloscopes, which address different solutions: HDO4000/HDO6000, our recently introduced  12-bit, high definition oscilloscopes; LabMaster 10 Zi-A, our highest bandwidth performance oscilloscope; WaveMaster, our industry leading high-end oscilloscope family; WavePro, which is targeted at the mid-to high-range performance sector; WaveRunner, designed for the general purpose and bench-top sector; WaveSurfer designed for users in the lower bandwidth bench-top sector of the market; WaveJet, designed for value-oriented users in the  economy sector of the market; and WaveAce, our entry-level oscilloscope products. In addition to our real-time oscilloscopes, we have the WaveExpert family of sampling oscilloscopes and modules. Our protocol analyzers are used by designers and engineers to reliably and accurately monitor communications traffic and diagnose operational problems in a variety of communications devices to ensure that they comply with industry standards.

Our test and measurement products are sold into a broad range of industry sectors, including computer, semiconductor, consumer electronics, data storage, automotive, industrial, military, aerospace and telecommunications. We believe designers in all of these industry sectors are developing products which rely on increasingly complex electronic signals to provide the features and performance their customers require.

Digital Imaging

Our Digital Imaging segment includes high performance sensors, cameras and systems, within the visible, infrared and X-ray spectra for use in industrial, government and medical applications, as well as micro electro mechanical systems (“MEMS”). It also includes our sponsored and centralized research laboratories benefiting government programs and businesses.

With the February 12, 2011 acquisition of DALSA, we expanded our imaging products and solutions capabilities and customer base. We design, develop and manufacture image capture products, primarily consisting of high performance image sensors and digital cameras for use in industrial, scientific, medical and professional applications. We also design, develop and manufacture image processing products, primarily consisting of hardware and software for image processing in industrial and medical applications.   We continue to develop high-resolution, low dose X-ray sensors for medical and dental applications.  Our high performance image sensors utilize both charge coupled device (“CCD”) and complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (“CMOS”) technology.  In particular, our CMOS image sensing technology is used in our large flat panel X-ray detectors for medical and dental X-ray imaging.  Our image processing software allows original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and systems integrators to develop vision applications using our image acquisition and processing hardware. Our smart camera products are user-friendly, cost-effective vision appliances for task-specific factory floor applications such as gauging, high-precision alignment, inspection, assembly verification and machine guidance. Unlike our OEM imaging products, this category of cameras is designed to be quickly deployed by technicians on the factory floor.

Additionally, we produce and provide manufacturing services for MEMS, high voltage and mixed signal CMOS devices and complete integrated circuit (“IC”) products. The majority of our semiconductor manufacturing capacity is consumed by external customers with the remaining capacity applied towards supplying unique CCD fabrication services for our internal image sensor requirements.

Through Optech, our Digital Imaging segment provides LIDAR systems for airborne terrestrial mapping, mobile mapping and laser-based 3D imaging applications.  Optech's imaging and mapping systems are used by commercial customers engaged in the energy, natural resources and infrastructure industries, as well as government customers.  In addition, Optech provides systems and software for airborne laser bathymetry.  These systems provide simultaneous high-resolution 3D data and imagery of coastal land and the seafloor, as well as information about the seafloor and water column.

We provide research and engineering services primarily in the areas of electronics, materials, optics and information science to military, aerospace and industrial customers, as well as to various businesses throughout Teledyne. We collaborate with the Defense Advanced Research Products Agency (“DARPA”), and researchers at universities and national laboratories to stay at the forefront of emerging technologies. We have developed high speed electronics, MEMS sensors and actuators, as









well as compound semiconductors. We have developed functional materials, structural materials, liquid-crystal based optical devices and image processing algorithms.

We produce advanced focal plane arrays, sensors, and subsystems that cover a broad spectrum of frequencies from X-ray wavelengths to 18 micron long-wave infrared wavelengths. We are a leader in the development and production of large format focal plane array sensors for both military and space science markets. We support the production of third generation dual band infrared imagers designed to enable members of the armed forces to identify threats on the battlefield before any enemy can detect their presence. Our space sensors are used on the Hubble Space Telescope and the Moon Mineralogy Mapper and are expected to be used in future NASA missions such as the James Webb Space Telescope. We have developed various sensors, subassemblies and cameras for air- and ground-based applications.  We have developed indium antimonide cameras and hyperspectral sensors for unmanned aerial vehicles.  Most recently, we introduced the first miniature hot mid-wave infrared strained-layer-super lattice based 640X512 tactical camera targeted for missile seekers, personal weapon sights, light payloads for unmanned aerial vehicles, hand held imaging applications and situational awareness. We also design and manufacture advanced military laser protection eyewear.  Finally, we develop low-noise, high performance cameras for use in laboratory instruments.



Aerospace and Defense Electronics

Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides sophisticated electronic components and subsystems and communications products, including defense electronics, harsh environment interconnects, data acquisition and communications equipment for aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless and satellite communications, as well as general aviation batteries.

Over the years principally through focused acquisitions, we have expanded our microwave components and subsystems business with a goal of providing more highly integrated microwave subsystems and solutions to our customers. Historically, we designed and manufactured helix traveling wave tubes, commonly called TWTs, used to provide broadband power amplification of microwave signals. Military applications include radar, electronic warfare and satellite communication. We make TWTs for commercial applications as well, such as electromagnetic compatibility test equipment and satellite communication terminals. More recently, we have designed and delivered high power solid state TWT replacement amplifiers and complete amplifiers that incorporate a TWT and a power supply.

We design and manufacture solid state radio frequency (“RF”) and microwave components and subassemblies used in a wide variety of applications.   As components which form the building blocks for electronic systems, we produce amplifiers, voltage-controlled oscillators, YIGs, BAWs, low noise amplifiers "LNAs", microwave mixers, and detectors using LDMOS, GaAs, GaN, InP, and SiC technologies.  These components form the basis for our line of solid state power amplifiers, RF converters, and modems which are used in systems that provide communications links between ground stations, mobile units, UAVs, and orbiting satellites. Such products are also used in mobile telephone, TV broadcast and commercial data communications networks.  In addition, a variety of our products are modified to design and manufacture higher level subsystems including: Improvised Explosive Device "IED" detection and jamming; UAV, mobile, and fixed location radar transmitters and receivers; and test and measurement systems; as well as Instantaneous Frequency Measurement "IFM"-based systems and subsystems, including integrated frequency locked sources and set-on receiver jammers used for the U.S. Navy and Air Force training.

We supply a variety of connectors and cable assemblies, including specialized high voltage connectors and subassemblies and coax microwave cable and connectors, for defense, aerospace and industrial applications. We also provide custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable assemblies to a number of marine, environmental and industrial markets. Additionally, we produce pilot helmet mounted display components and subsystems for the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System (“JHMCS”) used in the F-15, F-16 and F-18 aircrafts. The JHMCS system is a multi-role system designed to enhance pilot situational awareness and provides visual control of aircraft targeting systems and sensors. We manufacture microprocessor-controlled aircraft ejection seat sequencers and related support elements to military aircraft programs. We have been awarded several development contracts to furnish electronic safe and arm devices for use in a number of military applications.

We provide specialty electronic manufacturing services. We develop and manufacture custom microelectronic modules that provide both high reliability and extremely dense packaging for military applications. We also develop custom tamper-resistant microcircuits designed to provide enhanced security in military communication. We serve the market for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of sophisticated military electronics equipment. We manufacture advanced packaging solutions for military and commercial aircraft using rigid and rigid-flex printed circuit boards.

We supply electromechanical relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial switching devices to military, aerospace and other industrial markets. Applications include microwave and wireless communication infrastructure, RF and general broadband test equipment, test equipment used in semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial and commercial machinery and control equipment. On commercial aircraft, our solid state and electromechanical relays are used in a variety of









applications, including jet engine fuel control, management of control surfaces and other on board applications.

We are a leading supplier of digital flight data acquisition and analysis systems to the civil aviation market. These systems acquire data for use by the aircraft's flight data recorder as well as record additional data for the airline's operation, such as aircraft and engine condition monitoring. We provide the means to transfer this data, using Teledyne's patented wireless technology, from the aircraft to the airline operation center. We also design and manufacture airborne networking products, including servers, as well as aircraft data loading equipment, flight line maintenance terminals and data distribution software used by commercial airlines and the U.S. military. We also provide lead acid aircraft batteries for general aviation, and business and light jet applications.



Engineered Systems

Our Engineered Systems segment provides innovative systems engineering and integration, advanced technology development, and manufacturing solutions for defense, space, environmental and energy applications. This segment also designs and manufactures electrochemical energy systems and small turbine engines.

Engineered Products and Services

Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. is a well-recognized full-service space, missile defense, marine systems, and energy company.

Our missile defense engineering and analytic capabilities include; concept definition; systems design, development, integration and testing; and prototype manufacturing with specialization in Service Oriented Architecture applications and real-time distributed test and Command and Control (“C2”) systems. We lead and support air and missile defense programs, including the Extended Air Defense Simulation (“EADSIM”) and the Objective Simulation Framework (“OSF”) programs. Associated engineering support tasks generally involve analysis, test and evaluation of air and ballistic missile defense system performance on a large number of major programs, including the Ground-based Midcourse Defense, Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot Advanced Capability 3, and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (“THAAD”) systems. As the Missile Defense Agency (“MDA”) prime contractor for the OSF contract, we design, develop, test, implement and maintain the OSF. The OSF is being designed to support full scale simulations, ground tests and live fire events throughout the life cycle of the Ballistic Missile Defense System.

We specialize in marine systems design and manufacturing.  For the U.S. Special Operations Command, we are the prime contractor engaged to design, develop, test, manufacture and sustain the Shallow Water Command Submersible (“SWCS”) vehicle to replace the current SEAL Delivery Vehicle. We are producing the Littoral Battlespace Sensing Glider (“LBS-G”) system for the U.S. Navy Program Executive Office - Command, Control, Computer and Intelligence (“PEO-C4I”).  Teledyne Webb Research is the glider developer and manufacturer on the LBS-G program.  We manufacture gun mounts for the Littoral Combat Ship program and, under contract to Raytheon Company, we manufacture advanced mine detection and neutralization systems.

We are active in U.S. space programs and continue to play a vital role in the science operations area of the International Space Station (“ISS”) program. We provide 24-hour-per-day payload operations in the ISS Payload Operations and Integration Center located at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center. In 2012, NASA awarded us a cooperative agreement to foster the commercial utilization of the ISS.  Under this agreement, we are working to develop a commercial earth imaging platform known as the Multi-User System for Earth Imaging (“MUSES”).  We also design, develop, and manufacture components for liquid rocket engines, scientific payloads, and manned space vehicles.

We operate a full service radiological analysis laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee. This laboratory has received certification from the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in five states, including Utah and Texas where the largest commercial radiological waste disposal site resides. With its Nuclear Utilities Procurement Issues Committee certification, the laboratory also serves almost 50% of the nuclear power plants in United States. We also manage and operate a separation, purification and analysis of atmospheric samples laboratory for the U.S. Government. Additionally, we provide engineering and manufacturing for customers in the commercial nuclear market.

Extending our historic facilities and plant management services to the commercial arena, in November 2012, we were awarded a three-year lab and office facility management contract for research services from The Dow Chemical Company.   We are currently leading on-site and off-site management and support research services at Dow Chemical research facilities in Midland, Michigan, Freeport, Texas and Spring House, Pennsylvania.

We manufacture products that are primarily highly engineered and high quality machined and metal fabricated components and assemblies for external customers across the spectrum of our core business base, including NASA, U.S. Department of Defense customers and the U.S. Department of Energy, as well as commercial customers. Through our UK-based operations, we manufacture precision machined large components and also manufacture advanced composites for the commercial aviation industry.









Energy Systems

We manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas generators used worldwide in electrical power generation plants, semiconductor manufacturing, optical fiber production, chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other industrial processes. Our sales of hydrogen generators have been primarily in developing countries and domestic applications where delivered merchant gas is not practical. We also provide thermoelectric and electrochemical energy technology solutions for use in U.S. Government programs.

Turbine Engines

We design, develop and manufacture small turbine engines primarily used in tactical missiles for military markets. Our engines power the Boeing Harpoon and Standoff Land Attack Missile systems, and we are the sole source provider of engines for the baseline Lockheed Martin Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”). We also continue to work on advanced technology for small turbine engines and components for programs sponsored by the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory.

Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the various industries we serve. No commercial customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during 2012, 2011 or 2010.  Our largest commercial customer, a customer of our Instrumentation segment, accounted for 3.4%, 2.9% and 3.5% of total sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Sales to international customers accounted for approximately39%of total sales in2012, compared with36%in2011and29%in2010. In2012, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign countries. Approximately 90 percent of our sales to foreign customers were made to customers in 24 foreign countries. The2012top five countries for international sales were the United Kingdom, Norway, China, Germany and Japan and constituted approximately 19% of our total sales.

Approximately32%,36%and44%of our total sales for2012,2011and2010, respectively, were derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Information on our sales to the U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, is as follows (in millions):

201220112010Instrumentation$39.9$38.6$35.6Digital Imaging128.8110.293.3Aerospace and Defense Electronics269.9303.6302.4Engineered Systems245.4242.0296.1Total U.S. Government sales$684.0$694.4$727.4

Our principal U.S. Government customer is the U.S. Department of Defense. These sales represented26%,29%and34%of our total sales for2012,2011and2010, respectively. In both2012and 2011, our largest program with the U.S. Government was the Systems Development and Operations Support contract with NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center, which represented 1.9% of our total sales in both years.  In 2010, our largest program with the U.S. Government was the Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance contract with the Space and Missile Defense Command, and it represented 3.4% of then total sales.

As described on pages 13 through 15, there are risks associated with doing business with the U.S. Government. In2012, approximately59%of our U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts were fixed-price type contracts, compared to60%in2011and54%in2010. Under these types of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. Such contracts are typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance. Additionally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. Government at its convenience, without identification of any default. When contracts are terminated for convenience, we typically recover costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. We had six U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience in2012, compared to seven in2011and two in2010.

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately$952.5 millionatDecember 30, 2012, compared with$944.6 millionatJanuary 1, 2012and$863.8 millionatDecember 31, 2010. We expect to fulfill99%of such backlog of confirmed orders during 2013.

Raw Materials and Suppliers

Generally, our businesses have experienced minimal fluctuations in the supply of raw materials, but not without some price volatility. While some of our businesses provide services, for those businesses that sell hardware and product, a portion of the value that we provide is labor oriented, such as design, engineering, assembly and test activities. In manufacturing our









products, we use our own production capabilities and also third party suppliers and subcontractors, including international sources. Some of the items we purchase for the manufacture of our products, including certain gyro components for some marine navigation applications, certain magnets and helix wire for our traveling wave tubes and certain infrared detectors substrates, as well as certain scintillator materials use in the production of our X-ray detectors, are purchased from limited or single sources, including international sources, due to technical capability, price and other factors. While over the years we have not experienced much difficulty in procuring raw materials, components, sub-assemblies and other supplies required in our manufacturing processes, continuing disruption in the global economy and financial markets could trigger increased pricing and otherwise affect our suppliers as well as our ability to procure some supplies.

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the commitment to work closely with our customers to understand their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and longer-term relationships.

Our segments use a combination of internal sales forces, distributors and commissioned sales representatives to market and sell our products and services. Our Teledyne Instruments companies and other businesses have been working over the years to consolidate or share internal sales and servicing efforts. Several Teledyne businesses have been marketing and selling products collaboratively to similar customers to promote “one-stop” shopping under singular “brand” names, including Teledyne Oil & Gas, Teledyne Marine, Teledyne Nuclear, Teledyne Water Quality and Teledyne Microwave Solutions.

Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and by means of various websites. To promote our products and other capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to competitive pricing.

Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other subsidiaries, the Company has established offices in foreign countries to facilitate international sales for various businesses. Locations include Brazil, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates.

Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we have certain advantages that we believe help us compete effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly competitive.   Because of the diversity of products sold and the number of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors.  Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of quality, product performance and reliability, technical expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we do.



Research and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve engineering and design related to improving products and developing new products and technologies in the same or similar fields. We spent a total of$364.2 millionin 2012,$315.7 millionin 2011 and$319.9 millionin 2010 on research and development and bid and proposal costs. Customer-funded research and development, most of which was attributable to work under contracts with the U.S. Government, represented approximately64%of total research and development costs for 2012, compared with68%in 2011 and81%in 2010.

In 2012, we incurred$131.6 millionin Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal costs. We expect the level of Company-funded research and development and bid and proposal costs to be approximately $157.1 million in 2013.

Intellectual Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, we believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent upon any one intellectual property or related group of such properties. We own several hundred active patents and are licensed to use certain patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by us.









Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or termination of these patents, patent applications and license agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Employees

We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our total current workforce consists of approximately 9,630 employees, of which approximately 7,200 employees are located in the United States.

Executive Management

Teledyne's executive management includes:







Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 Years

Executive Officers:

Robert Mehrabian*Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Director71Dr. Mehrabian has served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne for more than five years. He is a director of Teledyne and PPG Industries, Inc.

Melanie S. Cibik*                                        Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary53Miss Cibik has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Teledyne since September 1, 2012.  For more than five years prior to that she had been Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Teledyne.

Susan L. Main*                                                        Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer54Ms. Main has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since November 19, 2012.  For more than five years prior to that she had been Vice President and Controller of Teledyne.

Wajid Ali*                                               Vice President and Controller39Mr. Ali has been Vice President and Controller of the Company since November 19, 2012.  For more than five years prior to that he had been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Teledyne DALSA, Inc. (formerly known as DALSA Corporation).

George C. Bobb III*Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Deputy General Counsel - Litigation38Mr. Bobb has been the Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Deputy General Counsel - Litigation of Teledyne since September 1, 2012.He had been an Associate General Counsel of Teledyne and the General Counsel of the Engineered Systems and Digital Imaging segments since August 2011. Since December 20, 2011, he has been Teledyne's Chief Ethics Officer. Prior to that, he held numerous legal roles since he joined Teledyne in July 2008. Prior to joining Teledyne, he served as Deputy Chief of Staff, and before then Counsel, for National Security Law and Policy in the National Security Division of the U.S. Department of Justice.





Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 Years

Segment Management:

Aldo Pichelli*President and Chief Operating Officer, Instrumentation and Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segments61Mr. Pichelli has been President and Chief Operating Officer of Teledyne's Instrumentation and Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments since January 2, 2011. From September 1, 2007, to that date, he had been President and Chief Operating Officer of the Electronics and Communications segment.

Rex D. Geveden*President, Engineered Systems Segment and President and Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne Scientific & Imaging, LLC51Mr. Geveden has been the President of Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. and the Engineered Systems segment since August 1, 2007. Since January 16, 2012, he has also been the President and Chief Executive Officer of Teledyne Scientific & Imaging, LLC. From January 1, 2008 through January 2, 2011, he had been the President of the Energy and Power Systems segment. Prior to that, Mr. Geveden served as the Associate Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) where he functioned as the agency's chief operating officer.

Brian C. DoodyChief Executive Officer and President, Teledyne DALSA, Inc.51Mr. Doody has been the Chief Executive Officer and President of Teledyne DALSA, Inc. since the February 12, 2011, acquisition of DALSA Corporation. From September 2007 to the acquisition, he had been the Chief Executive Officer of DALSA Corporation. Prior to that, he was the Chief Operating Officer of DALSA Corporation.

Thomas H. ReslewicPresident and Chief Executive Officer, Teledyne LeCroy, Inc.53Mr. Reslewic has been the President and Chief Executive Officer of  Teledyne LeCroy, Inc. since the August 3, 2012, acquisition. Prior to the acquisition, he had been the President and Chief Executive Officer of LeCroy since January 2002.













Name and TitleAgePrincipal Occupations Last 5 Years

Other Officers:

Cynthia BelakVice President, Business RiskAssurance56Ms. Belak became the Vice President, Business Risk Assurance on January 24, 2012. Prior to that, since January 4, 2010, she had been Group Controller within the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. From February 2008 until joining Teledyne, she was the Vice President of Finance of Sypris Electronics LLC, and prior thereto, she was Vice President of Finance and Controller of Sypris Data Systems Inc.

Stephen F. BlackwoodVice President and Treasurer50Mr. Blackwood has been Vice President and Treasurer of Teledyne since April 23, 2008. From March 2007 to April 2008, he was Treasurer and Senior Director of Investor Relations of MannKind Corporation, a biotechnology company.

Robyn E. McGowanVice President, Administration, Human Resources and Assistant Secretary48Ms. McGowan has been Vice President - Administration, Human Resources and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than five years.

Patrick NevilleVice President and Chief Information Officer39Mr. Neville has been Vice President and Chief Information Officer since October 4, 2010. From January 2010 to June 2010, he was Director of IT Global Operations at Iberdrola S.A. and from January 2003 to December 2009 he was Vice President of Information Technology at Energy East Corporation.

Robert W. SteenbergeVice President and Chief Technology Officer65Mr. Steenberge has been a Vice President of the Company and Teledyne's Chief Technology Officer for more than five years.

Jason VanWeesVice President, Strategy and Mergers & Acquisitions41Mr. VanWees has been Vice President, Strategy and Mergers & Acquisitions since September 1, 2012.  Prior to that, he had been  Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations of the Company, for more than five years.

*Such officers are subject to the reporting and other requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.



Dr. Robert Mehrabian and Teledyne have entered into a Fourth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of January 21, 2009. Under the agreement, we will employ Dr. Mehrabian as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer through at least December 31, 2014, because 12 months' notice of nonrenewal had not been given prior to the expiration of the term ended December 31, 2012. The agreement automatically renews for a successive one year unless either party gives the other written notice of its election not to renew at least 12 months before the expiration of the current term or any successive renewal terms. If notice is given, Dr. Mehrabian would then retire on December 31stof the year following the 12thmonth after receipt of the notice. Under the agreement, Dr. Mehrabian's annual base salary is $910,000. The agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is entitled to participate in Teledyne's annual incentive bonus plan (“AIP”) and other executive compensation and benefit programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with a non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay him annually starting six months following his retirement and for a period of 10 years, as payments supplemental to any accrued pension under our qualified pension plan, an amount equal to 50% of his base compensation as in effect at retirement.

In connection with our agreement to purchase DALSA Corporation in December 2010, DALSA entered into an executive employment agreement with Wajid Ali, who at the time was the Chief Financial Officer of DALSA. In November 2012, Mr. Ali was promoted to Vice President and Controller of Teledyne. Under the Executive Employment Agreement dated December 22, 2010, in the event Mr. Ali is terminated for reasons other than just cause or death or disability, or in the event Mr. Ali terminates his employment for good reason, he is entitled to a lump sum payment equal to between one and two times (based on how long he has worked at Teledyne or DALSA) his annual base salary, a lump sum amount equal to between one and two times (based on how long he has worked at Teledyne or DALSA) the average annual AIP payment received by Mr. Ali in each of the last three fiscal years, continuation of health benefits, and a pro-rated AIP payment based on the average annual AIP payment received by Mr. Ali in each of the last three fiscal years.  (In the event of a termination of Mr. Ali in a change of control in which he receives benefits under the Change of Control Severance Agreement described below, he will not receive duplicative benefits under his executive employment agreement.)

Mr. Ali also is a party to an agreement pursuant to which he agrees not to compete with DALSA and Teledyne or solicit employees and customers during the 18 months following the termination of his employment (for any reason).









Seventeen current members of management have entered into change of control severance agreements. The agreements have a three-year, automatically renewing term, except as noted below. The executive is entitled to severance benefits if (1) there is a change in control of the Company and (2) within three months before or 24 months after the change in control, either we terminate the executive's employment for reasons other than cause or the executive terminates the employment for good reason. “Severance benefits” currently consist of:



•A cash payment equal to three times (in the case of Dr. Mehrabian) or two times (in the case of Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden, Ms. Main and Mr. Ali and 12 other executives) the sum of (i) the executive's highest annual base salary within the year preceding the change in control and (ii) the Annual Incentive Plan bonus target for the year in which the change in control occurs or the average actual bonus payout for the three years immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is higher (in the case of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden, Ms. Main and Mr. Ali and 11 other executives) or the Annual Incentive Plan bonus target for the year in which the change in control occurs or the actual bonus payout for the year immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is higher (in the case of one other executive).

•A cash payment for the current Annual Incentive Plan bonus cycle based on the fraction of the year worked times the Annual Incentive Plan target objectives at 100% (in the case of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and 11 other executives) or 120% (in the case of one other executive) (with payment of the prior year bonus if not yet paid).

•Payment in cash for unpaid performance share program awards, assuming applicable goals are met at 120% of performance targets.

•Continued equivalent health and welfare (e.g., medical, dental, vision, life insurance and disability) benefits at our expense for a period of up to 36 months (24 months in some agreements) after termination (with the executive bearing any portion of the cost the executive bore prior to the change in control); provided, however, such benefits would be discontinued to the extent the executive receives similar benefits from a subsequent employer.

•Removal of restrictions on restricted stock issued under our restricted stock award programs.

•Full vesting under the Company's pension plans (within legal parameters) such that the executive shall be entitled to receive the full accrued benefit under all such plans in effect as of the date of the change in control, without any actuarial reduction for early payment.

•Up to $25,000 ($15,000 in some agreements) reimbursement for actual professional outplacement services.

•Immediate vesting of all stock options, with options being exercisable for the full remainder of the term (in the case of one executive, this immediate vesting of options takes place upon a change of control.)

•In the case of one executive, a “gross-up-payment” to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of federal excise taxes imposed on the executive as a result of the payments constituting an “excess parachute” as defined in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. In the case of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden, Ms. Main and Mr. Ali and 11 other executives, the executive will receive the better of, on an after-tax basis, (a) the unreduced excess parachute payment with no tax gross up payment, or (b) a parachute payment reduced to a level below which an excise tax is imposed.



The agreements were amended as of December 31, 2008 to defer certain payments for six months following a separation of service to assure compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.

On or before February 25, 2011, Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden, Ms. Main and seven other executives voluntarily agreed to amend and restate their agreements to conform the agreements to prevailing best practices. Subsequently, the Company entered into change of control severance agreements, which substantially conformed to the amended and restated agreement version, with five other executives. As compared to the prior agreements, as reflected above, the amended and restated change in control severance agreements contain four key changes or reductions as follows:

•Eliminate a “gross up payment” to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of federal excise taxes imposed on executive as a result of “excess parachute” payments as defined in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. Instead, the executive will receive the better of, on an after-tax basis, (a) the unreduced excess parachute payment with no tax gross up, or (b) a parachute payment reduced to a level below which an excise tax is imposed.

•Change the “single trigger” vesting of stock options upon a change of control to a “double trigger”.

•Change the formula for calculating the amount of severance: instead of the severance payment being a multiple of base salary plus bonus, with bonus being the higher of target or the most recent bonus payout, the severance payment will be a multiple of base salary plus bonus, with bonus being the higher of target or the prior three year average bonus.

•Reduce the amount of short year bonus: instead of a short year bonus being calculated at maximum (i.e., two times target), short year bonus will be calculated at target.











On January 31, 2011, Teledyne also provided notice to one executive who did not agree to sign the amended and restated change in control agreement that it would not extend the term of his agreement, which action results in the termination of his existing change in control severance agreement three years from the date of such notice (January 31, 2014).

The Company has entered into individual Indemnification Agreements with directors and certain officers and executives of Teledyne, including those then members of Executive Management listed above. The Indemnification Agreements provide the directors and executives who are parties to the agreements with a stand-alone contractual right to indemnification and expense advancement to the greatest extent allowable under Delaware law. The Indemnification Agreements also provide:

•In a third-party proceeding, an indemnitee is entitled to indemnification if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, if in a criminal action or proceeding, if the indemnitee had no reason to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. In a third party proceeding, the indemnification obligation covers reasonable expenses, judgment fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by the indemnity.

•In proceedings by or in the name of the Company (e.g., derivative suits), an indemnitee is entitled to indemnification if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company. In derivative suits, the indemnification obligation covers reasonable expenses, but in proceedings where the Company is alleging harm caused by the indemnitee, the indemnitee would generally not be entitled to be indemnified for judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (otherwise the Company would effectively not recover any damages), unless perhaps a Delaware or other court determines otherwise despite the finding of liability.

•The Company has an obligation to advance, on an unsecured and interest free basis, reasonable expenses incurred by the indemnitee within 30 days of the indemnitee's request. The indemnitee does not need to meet any standard of conduct to be entitled to advancement of expenses and there is no determination requirement to be made by the Board in connection with the advancements of expenses. An indemnity must repay any amounts advanced if it ultimately determined that the indemnity is not entitled to indemnification.

Our indemnification obligations do not cover the following situations: (1) where indemnification payments have been made under director's & officer's insurance or other indemnification provisions; (2) where the claim is based on disgorgement of short-swing profits under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act; (3) where the claim is based on reimbursement by the indemnitee to the Company of a bonus or other incentive-based or equity-based compensation if required under the Exchange Act (e.g., in connection with a restatement as a result of the company's noncompliance with the financial reporting requirements required by Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act); or (4) where the proceeding is initiated by the indemnitee (other than proceedings that are consented to by the Board or that the indemnitee initiates against the Company to enforce the Agreement).

Under the Indemnification Agreements, in the event of a change in control or we reduce or do not renew our director's & officer's insurance coverage, we are required to purchase (or cause the acquirer or successor to the Company to purchase or maintain) a six-year tail policy, subject to a 200% premium cap. The agreements continue until the later of (i) 10 years after the indemnitee ceases to serve as a director or officer, and (ii) one year following the final termination of any proceeding subject to the agreement.







