ITEM 1. BUSINESS.



General



We are the largest health benefits company in terms of medical membership in the United States, serving 33.3 million medical members
through our affiliated health plans and a total of 69.2 million individuals through all subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010. We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of
independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for: Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties
in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as BCBS in 10 New York city metropolitan and surrounding counties, and as Blue Cross or BCBS in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of
Washington, D.C.), and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, or Empire Blue Cross (in our New
York service areas). We also serve customers throughout the country as UniCare. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states through our subsidiaries.



Our mission is to improve the lives of the people we serve
and the health of our communities. We strive to achieve our mission by creating the best health care value in our industry, excelling at day-to-day execution, and capitalizing on new opportunities to drive growth. By delivering on our mission, we
expect to create greater value for our customers and shareholders.



We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to the large and small employer, individual, Medicaid and senior markets. Our managed care plans include: preferred provider organizations, or
PPOs; health maintenance organizations, or HMOs; point-of-service plans, or POS plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including consumer-driven health plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only and limited benefit products. In addition,
we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs
and other administrative services. We also provide an array of specialty and other products and services including life and disability insurance benefits, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, radiology benefit management,
analytics-driven personal health care guidance, long-term care insurance and flexible spending accounts.



For our fully-insured products, we charge a premium and assume all of the health care risk. Under self-funded and partially-insured
products, we charge a fee for services, and the employer or plan sponsor reimburses us for all or most of the health care costs. Approximately 93% of our 2010 operating revenue was derived from premium income, while approximately 7% was derived from
administrative fees and other revenues.



Through
December 31, 2010, our medical membership customer base primarily included Local Group (including UniCare) (those with less than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state, as well as customers with more than 5% of
eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state with up to 5,000 eligible employees, accounting for 46% of our medical members at December 31, 2010) and Individuals under age 65 (including UniCare) and their covered dependents (6%
of our medical members as of December 31, 2010). Other major customer types included National Accounts (generally multi-state employer groups primarily headquartered in a WellPoint service area with at least 5% of the eligible employees located
outside of the headquarter state and with more than 5,000 eligible employees, accounting for 21% of our medical members at December 31, 2010), BlueCard Host (enrollees of Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield plans not owned by WellPoint who receive
health care services in our BCBSA licensed markets, accounting for 14% of our medical members at December 31, 2010), Senior (Medicare-eligible individual members age 65 and over who have enrolled in







Medicare Advantage, a managed care alternative for the Medicare program, or who have purchased Medicare Supplement benefit coverage, accounting for 4% of our medical members at December 31,
2010), State-Sponsored Programs (primarily state-sponsored managed care alternatives in Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance programs, accounting for 5% of our medical members at December 31, 2010) and the Federal Employee
Program, or FEP (United States government employees and covered family members, accounting for 4% of our medical members at December 31, 2010).



We market our products through an extensive network of independent agents and brokers for Individual and Senior customers, as well as
certain Local Group customers with a smaller employee base. Products for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer and working with
industry specialists from our in-house sales force.



The aging of the population and other demographic characteristics and advances in medical technology continue to contribute to rising
health care costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit plans by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality
initiatives and financial incentives. Our leading market share and high business retention rates enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive and early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health
benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses. In addition, our ability to manage selling, general
and administrative costs continues to be an increasing driver of our overall profitability.



Our results of operations depend in large part on accurately predicting health care costs and our ability to manage future health care costs through adequate product pricing, medical management, product
design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts.



Our future results of operations may also be impacted by certain external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. During the first quarter of 2010, the U.S. Congress passed and
the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, as well as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or HCERA, which represent significant changes to the current U.S. health care system. The
legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time by increasing the eligibility thresholds for most state Medicaid programs and providing certain other individuals and small businesses with tax
credits to subsidize a portion of the cost of health insurance coverage. The legislation includes a requirement that most individuals obtain health insurance coverage beginning in 2014 and that certain large employers offer coverage to their
employees or they will be required to pay a financial penalty. In addition, the new laws encompass certain new taxes and fees, including an excise tax on high premium insurance policies, limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax
deductible and new fees on companies in our industry, some of which will not be deductible for income tax purposes.



The legislation also imposes new regulations on the health insurance sector, including, but not limited to, guaranteed coverage
requirements, prohibitions on some annual and all lifetime limits on amounts paid on behalf of or to our members, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage, establishment of minimum medical loss ratio requirements, a requirement to cover
preventive services on a first dollar basis, the establishment of state insurance exchanges and essential benefit packages and greater limitations on how we price certain of our products. The legislation also reduces the reimbursement levels for
health plans participating in the Medicare Advantage program over time.



These and other provisions of the new law are likely to have significant effects on our future operations, which, in turn, could impact the value of our business model and results of operations, including
potential impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets. We will continue to evaluate the impact of this legislation as additional guidance is made available. For additional discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in
this Form 10-K.







Also, federal and state regulatory agencies may further restrict our ability to obtain new
product approvals, implement changes in premium rates or impose additional restrictions, under new or existing laws that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.



In addition to external forces discussed in the preceding
paragraphs, our results of operations are impacted by levels and mix of membership. In recent years, we have experienced membership declines due to unfavorable economic conditions. We expect unemployment levels will remain high throughout 2011,
which may impact our ability to increase or maintain current membership levels. In addition, we believe the self-insured portion of our group membership base will continue to increase. These membership trends could have a material adverse effect on
our future results of operations. For additional discussion, see “Regulation,” herein and Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.



We continue to believe health care is local and feel that we
have the strong local presence required to understand and meet local customer needs. We believe we are well-positioned to deliver what customers want: innovative, choice-based and affordable products; distinctive service; simplified transactions;
and better access to information for quality care. Our local presence combined with our national expertise have created opportunities for collaborative programs that reward physicians and hospitals for clinical quality and excellence. We feel that
our commitment to health improvement and care management provides added value to customers and health care professionals.



We believe that an essential ingredient for practical and sustainable improvements in health care is raising health care quality while
managing costs for total cost affordability. We have identified solutions that we believe will deliver better health care while reducing costs. These include driving innovation in paying and partnering with providers to compel improved cost, quality
and health along with finding new, effective ways to manage risk and engage the member as a consumer. In addition, we seek to achieve efficiencies from our national scale while optimizing service performance for our customers. Finally, we seek to
continue to rationalize our portfolio of businesses and products, and align our investment to capitalize on new opportunities to drive growth in both our existing and new markets in the future.



In addition, we continue to enhance interactions with
customers, brokers, agents, employees and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology and improving internal operations. Our approach includes not only sales and distribution of health benefits products on the Internet, but also implementation
of advanced capabilities that improve service benefiting customers, agents, brokers, and providers while optimizing administrative costs. These enhancements will also help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care through increased
communications between patients and their physicians.



We intend to continue to drive growth in both current and new markets and will focus on earnings per share, or EPS, growth through organic membership gains, improvements in our operating cost structure,
strategic acquisitions and capital transactions, while pursuing our mission to improve the lives of the people we serve and the health of our communities.



We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act) and are
required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our Internet website iswww.wellpoint.com.We make
available, free of charge or through our Internet website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. We also include on our Internet website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct and the
charter of each standing committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct that are required to be publicly disclosed
pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. WellPoint, Inc. is an Indiana corporation incorporated on July 17, 2001.







Significant Events



Listed below are the more significant events that have
occurred over the last five years:



•We regularly review the appropriate use of capital, including common stock repurchases and dividends to shareholders. The declaration and payment of
any dividends or repurchases of our common stock are at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends upon our financial condition, results of operations, future liquidity needs, regulatory and capital requirements and other factors deemed
relevant by our Board of Directors. Historically our common stock repurchase program, discussed below, has been our primary use of capital, and we have not previously paid any cash dividends on our common stock through December 31, 2010.



Under our Board of
Directors’ authorization, we maintain a common stock repurchase program. Repurchases may be made from time to time at prevailing market prices, subject to certain restrictions on volume, pricing and timing. The repurchases are effected from
time to time in the open market, through negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase agreements, and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act, as amended. During the year ended December 31,
2010, we repurchased and retired approximately 76.7 million shares at an average per share price of $56.86, for an aggregate cost of $4.4 billion. On January 26, October 29 and December 9, 2010, our Board of Directors
increased the share repurchase authorization by $3.5 billion, $500.0 million and $125.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, $148.5 million remained authorized for future repurchases. On February 3, 2011, our Board of Directors
increased the share repurchase authorization by $375.0 million. Subsequent to December 31, 2010, we repurchased and retired approximately 2.6 million shares for an aggregate cost of approximately $162.7 million, leaving approximately $360.8
million for authorized future repurchases at February 9, 2011. Our stock repurchase program is discretionary as we are under no obligation to repurchase shares. We repurchase shares when we believe it is a prudent use of capital.



•On September 30, 2010, we entered into a senior credit facility, or the facility, with certain lenders. The borrowings from the facility, if any,
will be used for general corporate purposes. The facility provides credit up to $2.0 billion and matures on September 30, 2013. The interest rate on the facility is based on either, (i) the LIBOR rate plus a predetermined percentage rate
based on our credit rating at the date of utilization, or (ii) a base rate as defined in the facility agreement plus a predetermined percentage rate based on our credit rating at the date of utilization. Our ability to borrow under the facility
is subject to compliance with certain covenants. This facility replaced our previous senior credit facility, which provided credit up to $2.4 billion.



•On August 12, 2010, we issued $700.0 million of 4.350% notes due 2020 and $300.0 million of 5.800% notes due 2040 under our shelf registration
statement. We used the proceeds from this debt issuance to repay the remaining outstanding balance of our variable rate senior term loan and for general corporate purposes. The notes have a call feature that allows us to repurchase the notes at any
time at our option and a put feature that allows a note holder to require us to repurchase the notes upon the occurrence of both a change of control event and a downgrade of the notes.



•On December 1, 2009, we sold our pharmacy benefits management, or PBM, business to Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, and received $4.7
billion in cash. The pre-tax and after-tax gains on the sale were $3.8 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively. We also entered into a ten-year contract for Express Scripts to provide PBM services to our members. We expect this alliance to provide
our members with more cost effective solutions as well as access to state-of-the-art PBM services. The results of operations of our PBM business have been included in our consolidated results through November 30, 2009.



•On October 28, 2009, we announced that we entered into a member transition agreement with Health Care Service Corporation, or HCSC, which operates
as Blue Cross and Blue Shield in Illinois and Texas. Under this agreement, HCSC offered guaranteed replacement coverage to our UniCare commercial group and individual members in those states. Starting on January 1, 2010, certain of our







membership began transitioning to HCSC as a result of this agreement. The member transition agreement did not have a material effect on our consolidated cash flows, financial condition or results
of operations.



•On April 9, 2009, we completed our acquisition of DeCare Dental, LLC, or DeCare, a wholly-owned subsidiary of DeCare International. DeCare is
one of the country’s largest administrators of dental benefit plans and provides services directly and through partnerships and administrative agreements with ten dental insurance brands, primarily as a third party administrator. DeCare manages
dental benefits and provides our customers with innovative dental products and enhanced customer service.



•During 2008 and 2009, we worked with The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, to resolve issues identified as a result of our internal
compliance audits and findings from a 2008 CMS audit. Our work included detailed action plans to remediate such findings. In addition, we engaged an independent third party to provide CMS with on-going assessments regarding our compliance, including
verification of systems, processes and procedures.



On January 12, 2009, CMS notified us that we were suspended from marketing to and enrolling new members in our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D health benefit products until remediation efforts
had been fully implemented and confirmed. On September 9, 2009, CMS notified us that the sanctions had been lifted as a result of our remediation efforts. We began marketing our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D products on October 1,
2009 and began enrolling new members on November 15, 2009 for the 2010 contract year. We were not allowed to participate in the auto-enrollment or reassignment of Medicare Part D Low Income Subsidy, or LIS, beneficiaries beginning on
October 1, 2008. We worked with CMS to demonstrate that our agreed corrective action plans related to the Medicare Part D and LIS programs had been completed. CMS notified us on June 15, 2010 that we were again eligible to enroll LIS
beneficiaries beginning July 1, 2010 with an effective date of September 1, 2010.



•During the year ended December 31, 2008, we settled disputes with the IRS relating to certain tax years and involving industry issues which we had
been discussing with the IRS for several years. For certain years, tax positions have been resolved but the overall tax year may require additional approval from the Joint Committee on Taxation before it can be finalized in total. In addition, tax
litigation in the U.S. Tax Court concluded adversely to us during 2008. This adverse decision was appealed. In March, 2010 the Court of Appeals in the Seventh Circuit issued a decision ruling that various payments made to several states in prior
years should be deferred tax assets and not a current tax deduction for the year being litigated. The Company is in discussions with the IRS as to the appropriate treatment of the deferred tax assets.



•On August 1, 2007, we completed our acquisition of Imaging Management Holdings, LLC, whose sole business is the holding company parent of American
Imaging Management, Inc., or AIM. AIM is a leading radiology benefit management and technology company and provides services to us as well as other customers nationwide, including several other Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensees. The acquisition
supports our strategy to become the leader in affordable quality care by incorporating AIM’s services and technology for more effective and efficient use of radiology services by our members. The purchase price for the acquisition was
approximately $300.0 million in cash.



Industry Overview



Passage during 2010 of PPACA and HCERA represent significant changes to the current U.S. health care system. The legislation is
far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over the next several years as the legislative provisions are enacted, a primary goal of which is to provide health insurance coverage to all U.S. citizens. The legislation
also imposes new regulations on the health insurance sector, many details of which require additional guidance and specificity from several governing organizations.







While it is too early to fully understand the effects of the legislation on our industry and
overall business, certain provisions of the new law are likely to have a significant impact on our industry and our future operations, and could result in a changing business model in the future. Such provisions include, but are not limited to,
guaranteed insurability of members, whereby individual members will no longer be subject to underwriting standards, establishment of health insurance exchanges that will alter the manner in which health insurance is marketed, fees assessed against
health insurance companies, and minimum medical loss ratios that require health insurance companies to pay a specified percentage of premiums in medical claims costs. For additional discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in
this Form 10-K.





Economic factors and greater consumer awareness have resulted in the increasing popularity of products that offer larger, more extensive networks, more member choice related to coverage, physicians and
hospitals, and a desire for greater flexibility for customers to assume larger deductibles and co-payments in return for lower premiums. CDHPs, which are relatively high deductible PPO products and which are often paired with some type of member
health care expenditure account that can be used at the member’s discretion to help fund member out-of-pocket costs, help to meet this demand. CDHPs also usually incorporate member education, wellness, and care management programs, to help
customers make better informed health care decisions. We believe we are well-positioned in each of our regions to respond to these market preferences.



Each of the BCBS companies, of which there were 39 independent primary licensees as of December 31, 2010, works
cooperatively in a number of ways that create significant market advantages, especially when competing for very large multi-state employer groups. As a result of this cooperation, each BCBS company is able to take advantage of other BCBS
licensees’ substantial provider networks and discounts when any BCBS member works or travels outside of the state in which their policy is written. This program is referred to as BlueCard®, and is a source of revenue for providing member services in our states for individuals who are customers of BCBS plans not affiliated with us.



Competition



The managed care industry is highly competitive, both nationally and in our regional markets. Competition
continues to be intense due to aggressive marketing, business consolidations, a proliferation of new products and increased quality awareness and price sensitivity among customers.







Health benefits industry participants compete for customers mainly on the following factors:



•quality of service;



•access to provider networks;



•access to care management and wellness programs, including health information;



•innovation, breadth and flexibility of products and benefits;



•reputation (including National Committee on Quality Assurance, or NCQA, accreditation status);



•brand recognition;



•price; and



•financial stability.



Over the last few years, a health plan’s ability to interact with employers, members and other third parties (including health care
professionals) via the Internet has become a more important competitive factor and we have made significant investments in technology to enhance our electronic interaction with providers, employers, members and third parties.



We believe our exclusive right to market products under the
most recognized brand in the industry, BCBS, in our most significant markets provides us with an advantage over our competition. In addition, our provider networks in our regions enable us to achieve cost-efficiencies and service levels enabling us
to offer a broad range of health benefits to our customers on a more cost-effective basis than many of our competitors. We strive to distinguish our products through provider access, service, care management, product value and brand recognition.



To build our provider networks, we compete with
other health benefits plans for the best contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers. We believe that physicians and other providers primarily consider member volume, reimbursement rates, timeliness of reimbursement and administrative
service capabilities along with the reduction of non-value added administrative tasks when deciding whether to contract with a health benefits plan.



At the sales and distribution level, we compete for qualified agents and brokers to recommend and distribute our products. Strong
competition exists among insurance companies and health benefits plans for agents and brokers with demonstrated ability to secure new business and maintain existing accounts. We believe that quality and price of our products, support services,
reputation and prior relationships, along with a reasonable commission structure are the factors agents and brokers consider in choosing whether to market our products. We believe that we have good relationships with our agents and brokers, and that
our products, support services and commission structure compare favorably to our competitors in all of our regions. Typically we are the lead competitor in each of our markets and thus a closely watched target by other insurance competitors.



Reportable Segments



We manage our operations through three reportable segments:
Commercial, Consumer, and Other.



Our Commercial
and Consumer segments both offer a diversified mix of managed care products, including PPOs, HMOs, traditional indemnity benefits and POS plans, as well as a variety of hybrid benefit plans including CDHPs, hospital only and limited benefit
products.



Our Commercial segment includes Local
Group (including UniCare), National Accounts and certain other ancillary business operations (dental, vision, life and disability and workers’ compensation). Business units in the Commercial segment offer fully-insured products and provide a
broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other
administrative services.







Our Consumer segment includes Senior, State-Sponsored and Individual businesses. Senior
business includes services such as Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and Medicare Supplement, while State-Sponsored business includes our managed care alternatives for Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Plan programs.



Our Other segment includes the Comprehensive Health Solutions
Business unit, or CHS, that brings together our resources focused on optimizing the quality of health care and cost of care management. CHS included our PBM business until its sale to Express Scripts on December 1, 2009, and also includes
provider relations, care and disease management, employee assistance programs, including behavioral health, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal health care guidance. Our Other segment also includes results from our Federal
Government Solutions, or FGS, business. FGS business includes the Federal Employee Program, or FEP, and National Government Services, Inc., or NGS, which acts as a Medicare contractor in several regions across the nation. The Other segment also
includes other businesses that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for an operating segment as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, segment reporting guidance, as well as intersegment sales and expense eliminations and
corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments.



For additional information regarding the operating results of our segments, see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
and Note 20, “Segment Information,” to our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010, included in this Form 10-K.



Products and Services



A general description of our products and services is
provided below:



Preferred Provider
Organization.PPO products offer the member an option to select any health care provider, with benefits reimbursed by us at a higher level when care is received from a participating network provider. Coverage is subject to
co-payments or deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.



Consumer-Driven Health Plans.CDHPs provide consumers with increased financial responsibility, choice and
control regarding how their health care dollars are spent. Generally, CDHPs combine a high-deductible PPO plan with an employer-funded and/or employee-funded personal care account, which may result in tax benefits to the employee. Some or all of the
dollars remaining in the personal care account at year-end can be rolled over to the next year for future health care needs.



Traditional Indemnity.Indemnity products offer the member an option to select any health care provider for
covered services. Coverage is subject to deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.



Health Maintenance Organization.HMO products include comprehensive managed care benefits, generally through
a participating network of physicians, hospitals and other providers. A member in one of our HMOs must typically select a primary care physician, or PCP, from our network. PCPs generally are family practitioners, internists or pediatricians who
provide necessary preventive and primary medical care, and are generally responsible for coordinating other necessary health care services. We offer HMO plans with varying levels of co-payments, which result in different levels of premium rates.



Point-of-Service.POS products blend the characteristics of HMO, PPO and indemnity plans. Members can have
comprehensive HMO-style benefits through participating network providers with minimum out-of-pocket expenses (co-payments) and also can go directly, without a referral, to any provider they choose, subject to, among other things, certain deductibles
and coinsurance. Member cost sharing is limited by out-of-pocket maximums.







Administrative Services.In addition to fully-insured
products, we provide administrative services to large group employers that maintain self-funded health plans. These administrative services include underwriting, actuarial services, medical management, claims processing and other administrative
services for self-funded employers. Self-funded health plans are also able to use our provider networks and to realize savings through our negotiated provider arrangements, while allowing employers the ability to design certain health benefit plans
in accordance with their own requirements and objectives. We also underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans.



BlueCard.BlueCard host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which a
WellPoint subsidiary is the Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer sponsored health plan serviced by a non-WellPoint controlled BCBS licensee, who is the “home” plan. We perform certain administrative
functions for BlueCard host members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard members’ home plans. Other administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home
plan.



Senior
Plans.We offer a wide variety of senior plans, products and options such as Medicare supplement plans, Medicare Advantage (including private fee-for-service plans) and Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans, or Medicare
Part D. Medicare supplement plans typically pay the difference between health care costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional
Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and dual eligible (Medicare and Medicaid) beneficiaries. We offer these plans to customers through our health benefit subsidiaries
throughout the country.



Individual
Plans.We offer a full range of health insurance plans with a variety of options and deductibles for individuals under age 65 who are not covered by employer-sponsored coverage. Some of our products target certain
demographic populations such as the uninsured, “young invincibles,” (individuals between the ages of 19 and 29), families and those transitioning between jobs or early retirees.



Medicaid Plans and Other State-Sponsored
Programs.We have contracts to serve members enrolled in Medicaid, State Children’s Health Insurance programs and other publicly funded health care programs for low income and/or high medical risk individuals. We
provide services in California, Indiana, Kansas, Massachusetts, New York, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia and Wisconsin.



Pharmacy Products.Until December 1, 2009, we offered pharmacy and PBM services directly to our members
through our PBM subsidiaries. Subsequent to the December 1, 2009 sale of our PBM subsidiaries, these services are now managed for us by Express Scripts under our ten-year contract. Pharmacy services incorporate features such as drug
formularies, a pharmacy network and maintenance of a prescription drug database and mail order capabilities. PBM services include management of drug utilization through outpatient prescription drug formularies, retrospective review and drug
education for physicians, pharmacists and members. Two of our PBM subsidiaries were licensed pharmacies and made prescription dispensing services available through mail order for PBM clients. Our PBM companies also included Precision Rx Specialty
Solutions, a full service specialty pharmacy designed to help improve quality and cost of care by coordinating a relatively new class of prescription medications commonly referred to as biopharmaceuticals, also known as specialty medications.



Life
Insurance.We offer an array of competitive individual and group life insurance benefit products to both large and small group customers in conjunction with our health plans. The life products include term life and
accidental death and dismemberment.



Disability.We offer short-term and long-term disability programs, usually in conjunction with our health
plans.



Behavioral
Health.We offer specialized behavioral health plans and benefit management. These plans cover mental health and substance abuse treatment services on both an inpatient and an outpatient basis. We have implemented employee
assistance and behavioral managed care programs for a wide variety of businesses throughout the United States. These programs are offered through our subsidiaries.







Radiology Benefit Management.We offer outpatient diagnostic
imaging management services to health plans. These services include utilization management for advanced diagnostic imaging procedures, network development and optimization, patient safety, claims adjudication and provider payment.



Personal Health Care
Guidance.We offer leading analytics-driven personal health care guidance. These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and
reduce medical costs.



Dental.Our dental plans include networks in certain states in which we operate. Many of the dental benefits
are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. Additionally, we offer managed dental services to other health care plans to assist those other health care plans in providing
dental benefits to their customers.



Vision
Services.Our vision plans include networks within the states where we operate. Many of the vision benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded
basis.



Long-Term Care
Insurance.We offer long-term care insurance products to our California members through a subsidiary. The long-term care products include tax-qualified and non-tax qualified versions of a skilled nursing home care plan and
comprehensive policies covering skilled, intermediate and custodial long-term care and home health services.



Medicare Administrative Operations.Through our subsidiary, NGS, we serve as a fiscal intermediary, carrier
and Medicare administrative contractor providing administrative services for the Medicare program, which generally provides coverage for persons who are 65 or older and for persons who are disabled or with end-stage renal disease. Part A of the
Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other health care facilities. Part B of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by physicians, physical and occupational
therapists and other professional providers, as well as certain durable medical equipment and medical supplies. CMS is currently conducting competitive procurements to replace the current fiscal intermediary and carrier contracts with contracts that
conform to the Federal Acquisition Regulations. These new contracts, referred to as Medicare Administrative Contracts, or MACs, will combine most of the administrative activities currently performed by the existing intermediaries and carriers. At
year end 2010, NGS held two MACs as a prime contractor and supported two MACs as a subcontractor. Compensation under the MACs is on a cost plus award fee basis while compensation under the fiscal intermediary and carrier contracts is on a
cost reimbursement basis.



Customer Types



Our products are generally developed and marketed with an
emphasis on the differing needs of our various customers. In particular, our product development and marketing efforts take into account the differing characteristics between the various customers served by us, including individuals, employers,
seniors and Medicaid recipients, as well as the unique needs of educational and public entities, labor groups, federal employee health and benefit programs, national employers and state-run programs servicing low-income, high-risk and under-served
markets. Each business unit is responsible for product design, pricing, enrolling, underwriting and servicing customers in specific customer types. We believe that one of the keys to our success has been our focus on distinct customer types, which
better enables us to develop benefit plans and services that meet our customers’ unique needs.







Overall, we seek to establish pricing and product designs to achieve an appropriate level of
profitability for each of our customer categories balanced with competitive objectives. As of December 31, 2010, our medical membership customer types included the following categories:



•Local Group consists of those employer customers with less than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state, as well as customers
with more than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state with up to 5,000 eligible employees. In addition, Local Group includes UniCare local group members. These groups are generally sold through brokers or consultants
working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force. Local Group insurance premiums may be based on claims incurred by the group or sold on a self-insured basis. The customer’s buying decision is typically based upon the size and
breadth of our networks, customer service, the quality of our medical management services, the administrative cost included in our quoted price, our financial stability, reputation and our ability to effectively service large complex accounts. Local
Group accounted for 46% of our medical members at December 31, 2010.



•Individual consists of individual customers under age 65 (including UniCare) and their covered dependents. Individual policies are generally sold
through independent agents and brokers, our in-house sales force or via the Internet. Individual business is sold on a fully-insured basis and is usually medically underwritten at the point of initial issuance. Individual customers are generally
more sensitive to product pricing and, to a lesser extent, the configuration of the network, and the efficiency of administration. Account turnover is generally higher with Individual as compared to Local Groups. Individual business accounted for 6%
of our medical members at December 31, 2010.



•National Accounts generally consist of multi-state employer groups primarily headquartered in a WellPoint service area with at least 5% of the eligible
employees located outside of the headquarter state and with more than 5,000 eligible employees. Some exceptions are allowed based on broker relationships. Service area is defined as the geographic area in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products.
National Accounts are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer working with our in-house sales force. We have a significant advantage when competing for very large National Accounts due to the size and
breadth of our networks and our ability to access the national provider networks of BCBS companies and take advantage of their provider discounts in their local markets. National Accounts represented 21% of our medical members at December 31,
2010.



•BlueCard host customers represent enrollees of Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield plans not owned by WellPoint who receive health care services in our BCBSA
licensed markets. BlueCard membership consists of estimated host members using the national BlueCard program. Host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which a WellPoint subsidiary is the Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield
licensee and who are covered under an employer-sponsored health plan issued by a non-WellPoint controlled BCBSA licensee (i.e., the “home plan”). We perform certain administrative functions for BlueCard members, for which we receive
administrative fees from the BlueCard members’ home plans. Other administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan. Host members are computed using, among other
things, the average number of BlueCard claims received per month. BlueCard host membership accounted for 14% of our medical members at December 31, 2010.



•Senior customers are Medicare-eligible individual members age 65 and over who have enrolled in Medicare Advantage, a managed care alternative for the
Medicare program, who have purchased Medicare Supplement benefit coverage, some disabled under 65, or all ages with End Stage Renal Disease. Medicare Supplement policies are sold to Medicare recipients as supplements to the benefits they receive
from the Medicare program. Rates are filed with and in some cases approved by state insurance departments. Most of the premium for Medicare Advantage is paid directly by the Federal government on behalf of the participant who may also be charged a
small premium. Medicare Supplement and Medicare Advantage products are marketed in the same manner, primarily through independent agents and brokers. Senior business accounted for 4% of our medical members at December 31, 2010.







•State-Sponsored membership represents eligible members with State-Sponsored managed care alternatives in Medicaid and State Children’s Health
Insurance Plan programs. Total State-Sponsored program business accounted for 5% of our medical members at December 31, 2010.



•FEP members consist of United States government employees and their dependents within our geographic markets through our participation in the national
contract between the BCBSA and the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. FEP business accounted for 4% of our medical members at December 31, 2010.



In addition to reporting our medical membership by customer
type, we report by funding arrangement according to the level of risk that we assume in the product contract. Our two principal funding arrangement categories are fully-insured and self-funded. Fully-insured products are products in which we
indemnify our policyholders against costs for health benefits. Self-funded products are offered to customers, generally larger employers, who elect to retain most or all of the financial risk associated with their employees’ health care costs.
Some self-funded customers choose to purchase stop-loss coverage to limit their retained risk.



The following tables set forth our medical membership by customer type and funding arrangement:



December 3120102009(In thousands)Customer Type:Local Group15,21615,643Individual1,9052,131National:National Accounts7,0296,813BlueCard4,7114,744Total National11,74011,557Senior1,2591,215State-Sponsored1,7561,733FEP1,4471,391Total medical membership by customer type33,32333,670Funding Arrangement:Self-Funded19,59018,236Fully-Insured13,73315,434Total medical membership by funding arrangement33,32333,670



For additional information
regarding the change in medical membership between years, see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Form 10-K.



In addition to the above medical membership, we also serve
customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business. Examples of these other products or services include life, disease management and wellness, personal health care guidance,
radiology benefit management, vision, dental and Medicare Part D. We also provide some of these other products to unaffiliated BCBS or other health plans which contract with us for certain services.



Networks and Provider Relations



Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and
professionals that provide health care services to our members are guided by regional and national standards for network development, reimbursement and contract methodologies.







We attempt to provide market-based hospital reimbursement along industry standards. We also
seek to ensure that physicians in our network are paid in a timely manner at appropriate rates. We use multi-year contracting strategies, including case or fixed rates, to limit our exposure to medical cost inflation and increase cost
predictability. We seek to maintain broad provider networks to ensure member choice, based on both price and access needs, while implementing programs designed to improve the quality of care received by our members.



It is generally our philosophy not to delegate full financial
responsibility to our physician providers in the form of capitation-based reimbursement. However, in certain markets we believe capitation can be a useful method to lower costs and reduce underwriting risk, and we therefore have some capitation
contracts.



Depending on the consolidation and
integration of physician groups and hospitals, reimbursement strategies vary across markets. Fee-for-service is our predominant reimbursement methodology for physicians. Physician fee schedules are developed at the state level based on an assessment
of several factors and conditions, including CMS resource-based relative value system, or RBRVS, changes, medical practice cost inflation and physician supply. We utilize CMS RBRVS fee schedules as a reference point for fee schedule development and
analysis. The RBRVS structure was developed and is maintained by CMS, and is used by the Medicare program and other major payers. In addition, we have implemented and continue to expand physician incentive contracting, which recognizes clinical
quality and performance as a basis for reimbursement.



Our hospital contracts provide for a variety of reimbursement arrangements depending on local market dynamics and current hospital utilization efficiency. Most hospitals are reimbursed a fixed amount per
day or per case for inpatient covered services. Some hospitals, primarily sole community hospitals, are reimbursed on a discount from approved charge basis for covered services. Our “per case” reimbursement methods utilize many of the same
attributes contained in Medicare’s Diagnosis Related Groups, or DRG, methodology. Hospital outpatient services are reimbursed by fixed case rates, fee schedules or percent of approved charges. Our hospital contracts recognize unique hospital
attributes, such as academic medical centers or community hospitals, and the volume of care performed for our members. To improve predictability of expected cost, we frequently use a multi-year contracting approach and have been transitioning to
case rate payment methodologies. Many of our hospital contracts have reimbursement linked to improved clinical performance, patient safety and medical error reduction.



We are also advancing a number of innovative payment models
such as accountable care organizations, or ACO, and patient-centered medical homes, or PCMH, that aim to improve affordability and the quality of care delivered to our members. Under an ACO arrangement, providers receive incentives based on quality,
cost, safety and coordination of care metrics. Through this shared risk arrangement, providers share in the savings achieved through better quality and reduced costs, but also share the financial risk if results are not achieved. We are also in the
early years of ten PCMH programs in eight of our Blue states. In the PCMH model, physician practices become the medical “home” for members with chronic conditions. These practices help improve quality through enhanced
service offerings and better care coordination with other physicians and specialists across the healthcare system. Participating practices receive tiered reimbursement that includes a per member per month management fee and significant
quality-based incentives.



Medical Management Programs



Our medical management programs include a
broad array of activities that facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost effective medical care. These medical management activities and programs are administered and directed by physicians and trained
nurses. One of the goals of our medical management strategies is to ensure that the care delivered to our members is supported by appropriate medical and scientific evidence.







Precertification.A traditional medical management program
involves assessment of the appropriateness of certain hospitalizations and other medical services prior to the service being rendered. For example, precertification is used to determine whether a set of hospital and medical services is being
appropriately applied to the member’s clinical condition, in accordance with criteria for medical necessity as that term is defined in the member’s benefits contract. Most of our health plans have implemented precertification programs for
certain high cost radiology studies, addressing an area of historically significant cost trends. As previously described in “Significant Events” herein, on August 1, 2007, we completed our acquisition of AIM. We continue to
incorporate AIM’s services and technology for more effective and efficient use of diagnostic imaging services by our members.



Concurrent review.Another traditional medical management strategy we use is concurrent review, which is
based on nationally recognized criteria developed by third-party medical specialists. With concurrent review, the requirements and intensity of services during a patient’s hospital stay are reviewed, at times by an onsite skilled nurse
professional in collaboration with the hospital’s medical and nursing staff, in order to coordinate care and determine the most effective transition of care from the hospital setting.



Formulary management.We have developed formularies, which are selections of
drugs based on clinical quality and effectiveness. A pharmacy and therapeutics committee of physicians uses scientific and clinical evidence to ensure that our members have access to the appropriate drug therapies. This function remained with us
after the sale of our PBM business.



Medical
policy.A medical policy group comprised of physician leaders from various areas of the country, working in cooperation with academic medical centers, practicing community physicians and medical specialty organizations
such as the American College of Radiology and national organizations such as the Centers for Disease Control and the American Cancer Society, determines our national policy for the application of new medical technologies and treatments.



Quality programs.We are
actively engaged with our hospital and physician networks to enable them to improve medical and surgical care and achieve better outcomes for our members. We endorse, encourage and incent hospitals and physicians to support national initiatives to
improve the quality of clinical care, patient outcomes and to reduce medication errors and hospital infections. We have demonstrated our leadership in developing hospital quality programs.



External review procedures.We work with outside experts through a process of
external review to provide our members scientifically and clinically, evidenced-based medical care. When we receive member concerns, we have formal appeals procedures that ultimately allow coverage disputes related to medical necessity decisions
under the benefits contract to be settled by independent expert physicians.



Service management.In HMO and POS networks, primary care physicians serve as the overall coordinators of members’ health care needs by providing an array
of preventive health services and overseeing referrals to specialists for appropriate medical care. In PPO networks, patients have access to network physicians without a primary care physician serving as the coordinator of care.



Anthem Care Comparison.We
educate members about high-quality, cost-effective procedures that are covered by their benefit plans. Members are able to access via the internet a comparison of the cost of care, quality ratings and benefit levels for common services at specified
facilities, including the facility and professional and ancillary service costs. This allows members to make an educated decision about quality and cost before choosing a provider for these common procedures. This tool was recently adopted by the
BCBSA and is available in 48 states.



Personal
Health Care Guidance.These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. Examples of services include
member and physician messaging, providing access to evidence-based medical guidelines, physician quality profiling, and other consulting services.







Care Management Programs



We continue to expand our360º Healthsuite of
integrated care management programs and tools, offered through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Health Management Corporation.360º Healthoffers the following programs, among others, that have been proven to increase quality and reduce
medical costs for our members:



ConditionCareandFutureMomsare care management and maternity management programs that serve as excellent adjuncts to physician care. A dedicated nurse and added support from our team of dietitians, exercise physiologists, pharmacists, health
educators and other health professionals help participants understand their condition, their doctor’s orders and how to become a better self-manager of their condition.



24/7 NurseLineoffers access to qualified, registered
nurses anytime. This allows our members to make informed decisions about the appropriate level of care and avoid unnecessary worry. This program also includes a robust audiotape library, accessible by phone, with more than 400 health topics, as well
as on-line health education topics designed to educate members about symptoms and treatment of many common health concerns.



ComplexCareis an advanced care management program that reaches out to participants with multiple health care issues who are at
risk for frequent and high levels of medical care in order to offer support and assistance in managing their health care needs.ComplexCareidentifies candidates through claims analysis using predictive modeling techniques, the use of health
risk assessment data, utilization management reports and referrals from a physician or one of our other programs, such as the24/7 NurseLine.



MyHealth Advantageutilizes integrated information systems and sophisticated data analytics to help our members improve their
compliance with evidence-based care guidelines, providing personal care notes that alert members to potential gaps in care, enable more prudent health care choices, and assist in the realization of member out-of-pocket cost savings.



MyHealth Coachprovides our members with a
professional guide who helps them navigate the health care system and make better decisions about their well-being.MyHealth Coachproactively reaches out to people who are at risk for serious health issues or have complex health care needs.
Our health coaches help participants understand and manage chronic conditions, handle any health and wellness related services they need and make smart lifestyle choices.



HealthyLifestyleshelps employees transform unhealthy
habits into positive ones by focusing on behaviors that can have a positive effect on their health and their employer’s financial well-being.HealthyLifestylesprograms include smoking cessation, weight management, stress management,
physical activity and diet and nutrition.



MyHealth@Anthemis our secure web-based solution, complementing other programs by reinforcing telephonic coaching and mail
campaigns. The website engages participants in regularly assessing their health status, gives them feedback about their progress, and tracks important health measures such as blood pressure, weight and blood glucose levels.



Employee Assistance Programsprovide many resources
that allow members to balance work and personal life by providing quick and easy access to confidential resources to help meet the challenges of daily life. Examples of services available in person as well as via telephone or internet are counseling
for child care, health and wellness, financial issues, legal issues, adoption and daily living.



Health Care Quality Initiatives



Increasingly, the health care industry is able to define quality health care based on preventive health measurements, outcomes of care and optimal care management for chronic disease. A key to our success
has been our ability to work with our network physicians and hospitals to improve the quality and outcomes of the health care services provided to our members. Our ability to promote quality medical care has been recognized by the NCQA, the largest
and most respected national accreditation program for managed care health plans.







Several quality health care measures, including the Health Plan Employer Data and
Information Set, or HEDIS, have been incorporated into the oversight certification by NCQA. HEDIS measures range from preventive services, such as screening mammography and pediatric immunization, to elements of care, including decreasing the
complications of diabetes and improving treatment for patients with heart disease. For the HMO and POS plans, NCQA’s highest accreditation is granted only to those plans that demonstrate levels of service and clinical quality that meet or
exceed NCQA’s rigorous requirements for consumer protection and quality improvement. Plans earning this accreditation level must also achieve HEDIS results that are in the highest range of national or regional performance. For the PPO plans,
NCQA’s highest accreditation is granted to those plans that have excellent programs for quality improvement and consumer protection and that meet or exceed NCQA’s standards. Overall, our managed care plans have been rated
“Excellent,” the highest accreditation, by NCQA.



We have committed to measuring our progress in improving the quality of care that our members and our communities receive through our proprietary Member Health Index, or MHI, and State Health Index, or
SHI. The MHI is comprised of 23 clinically relevant measures for our health plan members and combines prevention, care management, clinical outcome and patient safety metrics. The SHI measures the health of all the residents in our BCBSA licensed
states, not just our members, using public data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.



Our wholly-owned clinical research and health outcomes research subsidiary, HealthCore, has supported biopharmaceutical manufacturers,
health professionals, and health plans by enabling more effective medical management and increased physician adherence to evidence based care, and creating new knowledge on the value of clinical therapies, resulting in better care decisions.



Our wholly-owned radiology
management subsidiary, AIM, has supported quality by implementing utilization management programs for advanced imaging procedures that are based on widely accepted clinical guidelines. These programs promote the most appropriate use of these
procedures to improve the quality of overall health care delivered to our members and members of other health plans that are covered under AIM’s programs. In addition to utilization management, AIM has also implemented itsOptiNet®program, which promotes more informed selection of diagnostic imaging facilities by providing cost and facility
information to physicians at the point that a procedure is ordered. AIM also provides education on radiation exposure associated with advanced diagnostic procedures to members and physicians.



Our wholly-owned analytics-driven personal health care guidance subsidiary, Resolution Health, Inc., has
supported quality by helping our members take action to get healthy, stay healthy and better manage chronic illness. Our analysis of an individual member’s health data identifies opportunities to improve health care quality and safety; we then
send personalized messages to the member, their doctor and care manager to take action. For example, our drug safety messages inform a member’s doctor, pharmacist or care manager of potentially dangerous drug-drug, drug-condition, drug-age, or
drug-dose interactions identified in our Drug Safety Scan. This helps improve safety, drug effectiveness and medication adherence.



Pricing and Underwriting of Our Products



We price our products based on our assessment of current health care claim costs and emerging health care cost trends, combined with
charges for administrative expenses, risk and profit. We continually review our product designs and pricing guidelines on a national and regional basis so that our products remain competitive and consistent with our profitability goals and
strategies.



In applying our pricing to each
employer group and customer, we maintain consistent, competitive, strict underwriting standards. We employ our proprietary accumulated actuarial data in determining underwriting and pricing parameters. Where allowed by law and regulation, we
underwrite individual policies based upon the medical history of the individual applying for coverage, small groups based upon case specific underwriting procedures and large groups based on each group’s aggregate claim experience. Also, we
employ credit underwriting procedures with respect to our self-funded products.







In most circumstances, our pricing and underwriting decisions follow a prospective rating
process in which a fixed premium is determined at the beginning of the contract period. For fully-insured business, any deviation, favorable or unfavorable, from the medical costs assumed in determining the premium is our responsibility. Some of our
larger groups employ retrospective rating reviews, where positive experience is partially refunded to the group, and negative experience is charged against a rate stabilization fund established from the group’s favorable experience, or charged
against future favorable experience.



BCBSA Licenses



We have filed for registration of and
maintain several service marks, trademarks and trade names at the federal level and in various states in which we operate. We have the exclusive right to use the BCBS names and marks for our health benefits products in California (Blue Cross only),
Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as BCBS in 10 New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties, and as Blue Cross or BCBS in
selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Georgia, Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross (in our New York service areas).



Our license agreements require an annual fee based on enrollment to be paid to the BCBSA. BCBSA is a national trade association of Blue
Cross and Blue Shield licensees, the primary function of which is to promote and preserve the integrity of the BCBS names and marks, as well as provide certain coordination among the member companies. Each BCBSA licensee is an independent legal
organization and is not responsible for obligations of other BCBSA member organizations. We have no right to market products and services using the BCBS names and marks outside of the states in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products.



We believe that the BCBS names and marks are
valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace. The license agreements, which have a perpetual term, contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the BCBS names and marks. Upon
termination of the license agreements, we would cease to have the right to use the BCBS names and marks in one or more of the states in which we are authorized to use the marks and the BCBSA could thereafter issue licenses to use the BCBS names and
marks in those states to another entity. Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA
ownership limits on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency, the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution.



The license agreements with the BCBSA contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations
and our use of the BCBS names and marks, including:



•minimum capital and liquidity requirements;



•enrollment and customer service performance requirements;



•participation in programs that provide portability of membership between plans;



•disclosures to the BCBSA relating to enrollment and financial conditions;



•disclosures as to the structure of the BCBS system in contracts with third parties and in public statements;



•plan governance requirements;



•a requirement that at least 80% (or, in the case of Blue Cross of California, substantially all) of a licensee’s annual combined net revenue
attributable to health benefit plans within its service area must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the BCBS names and marks;







•a requirement that at least 66 2/3% of a licensee’s annual combined national revenue attributable to health benefit plans must be sold, marketed,
administered or underwritten under the BCBS names and marks;



•a requirement that neither a plan nor any of its licensed affiliates may permit an entity other than a plan or a licensed affiliate to obtain control
of the plan or the licensed affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services;



•a requirement that limits beneficial ownership of our capital stock to less than 10% for institutional investors and less than 5% for non-institutional
investors;



•a requirement that we divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms;



•a requirement that we guarantee certain contractual and financial obligations of our licensed affiliates; and



•a requirement that we indemnify the BCBSA against any claims asserted against it resulting from the contractual and financial obligations of any
subsidiary that serves as a fiscal intermediary providing administrative services for Medicare Parts A and B.



We believe that we and our licensed affiliates are currently in compliance with these standards. The standards under the license
agreements may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA.



Regulation



General



Our operations are subject to comprehensive and detailed state, federal and international regulation throughout the jurisdictions in which
we do business. As discussed below, the regulatory aspects of the U.S. health care system will be significantly affected by health care reform legislation. Supervisory agencies, including state health, insurance and corporation departments, have
broad authority to:



•grant, suspend and revoke licenses to transact business;



•regulate many aspects of our products and services;



•monitor our solvency and reserve adequacy; and



•scrutinize our investment activities on the basis of quality, diversification and other quantitative criteria.



To carry out these tasks, these regulators periodically
examine our operations and accounts.



Regulation of Insurance Company and HMO Business Activity



The federal government, as well as the governments of the
states in which we conduct our operations, have adopted laws and regulations that govern our business activities in various ways. Further, we expect that health care reform legislation will result in increased federal regulation that could have a
significant impact on our business. These laws and regulations, which vary significantly by state, may restrict how we conduct our businesses and may result in additional burdens and costs to us. Areas of governmental regulation include but are not
limited to:



•medical loss ratios;



•tax deductibility of certain compensation;



•licensure;



•premium rates;



•underwriting and pricing;







•benefits;



•eligibility requirements;



•guaranteed renewability;



•service areas;



•market conduct;



•sales and marketing activities;



•quality assurance procedures;



•plan design and disclosures, including mandated benefits;



•underwriting, marketing and rating restrictions for small group products;



•utilization review activities;



•prompt payment of claims;



•member rights and responsibilities;



•collection, access or use of protected health information;



•data reporting, including financial data and standards for electronic transactions;



•payment of dividends;



•provider rates of payment;



•surcharges on provider payments;



•provider contract forms;



•provider access standards;



•premium taxes and assessments for the uninsured and/or underinsured;



•member and provider complaints and appeals;



•financial condition (including reserves and minimum capital or risk based capital requirements and investments);



•reimbursement or payment levels for government funded business; and



•corporate governance.



These laws and regulations are subject to amendments and changing interpretations in each jurisdiction.



Our Medicare plans, Medicaid plans and other State-Sponsored
programs are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations.



States generally require health insurers and HMOs to obtain a certificate of authority prior to commencing operations. If we were to establish a health insurance company or an HMO in any jurisdiction
where we do not presently operate, we generally would have to obtain such a certificate. The time necessary to obtain such a certificate varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Each health insurer and HMO must file periodic financial and operating
reports with the states in which it does business. In addition, health insurers and HMOs are subject to state examination and periodic license renewal. The health benefits business also may be adversely impacted by court and regulatory decisions
that expand the interpretations of existing statutes and regulations. It is uncertain whether we can recoup, through higher premiums or other measures, the increased costs of mandated benefits or other increased costs caused by potential
legislation, regulation or court rulings. Federal laws and regulations concerning health care and health insurance may be subject to significant change. See Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.







Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act



The PPACA, signed into law on March 23, 2010, will
create significant changes for health insurance markets for the next several years. Specifically, many of the near-term changes are effective for certain groups and individuals on their first renewal on or after September 23, 2010, including a
prohibition on lifetime limits, certain annual limits, member cost-sharing on specified preventive benefits, and pre-existing condition exclusions for children. Certain requirements for insurers are also effective in 2011, including the minimum
medical loss ratio provision that requires insurers to pay rebates to customers when insurers do not meet or exceed the specified medical loss ratio thresholds, and changes to Medicare Advantage payments. Most of the provisions of PPACA with more
significant effects on the health insurance marketplace go into effect on January 1, 2014, including a requirement that insurers guarantee the issuance of coverage to all individuals regardless of health status, strict rules on how health
insurance is rated, the assessment of new taxes and fees, the creation of new insurance exchanges for individuals and small groups, and substantial expansions in eligibility for Medicaid.



Some provisions of the health care reform legislation became effective in 2010, including those that bar health
insurance companies from placing lifetime limits on insurance coverage, those related to the increased restrictions on rescinding coverage and those that extend coverage of dependents to the age of 26. The establishment of minimum medical loss
ratios, which could have a significant impact on our operations, became effective for certain of our businesses beginning in January, 2011. A new requirement for reviewing certain rate filings that fall above specified thresholds is also scheduled
to go into effect in 2011. Lastly, other significant changes, including the annual fees on health insurance companies, the excise tax on high premium insurance policies, the guaranteed coverage requirements and the requirement that individuals
obtain coverage, do not become effective until 2014 or later.



Many of the details of the new law require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Department of Labor, and the Department of the
Treasury. In certain cases, these regulatory agencies were directed to accept recommendations from external groups, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC. While proposed regulations on some provisions have been
released for review and comment, all of which we are carefully evaluating, it is too early to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business. Some of the more significant provisions of PPACA are described below:



•While the NAIC released its proposed recommendations governing medical loss ratios, and HHS largely adopted the NAIC’s recommendations in its
Interim Final Rule, significant changes could still occur to the medical loss ratio requirements through regulatory guidance and publication of the final regulation.



•PPACA also requires states to establish health insurance exchanges for qualified individuals and small employers effective January 1,
2014. If a state fails to establish a health insurance exchange, the federal government will establish a health insurance exchange in that state. While the states are expected to have some flexibility over the design and implementation of
these health insurance exchanges, HHS is expected to release two sets of regulations outlining more detailed requirements for exchanges, one in the spring of 2011 and another in the fall of 2011. In addition, California passed legislation
establishing an insurance exchange within that state to comply with the related provisions that will likely become effective in 2014. As California is the first state to provide a structure for such state-based insurance exchanges pursuant to the
legislation, other states may adopt a similar format for their exchanges subject to the regulations that will be provided by HHS in 2011.



•HHS has proposed regulations that require certain rate filings above specified thresholds to be reviewed, effective in July, 2011. The regulation
provides for state departments of insurance to conduct the reviews, except for cases where a state does not have an “effective” rate review program, in which case HHS will conduct the reviews.



•Medicare Advantage reimbursement rates will decline due to a new payment formula promulgated by PPACA that is expected to significantly reduce
reimbursements in the future. We also expect final







regulations for other significant provisions of PPACA related to Medicare, including quality bonus payments and rebates, authority for CMS to deny bids and first-dollar coverage requirements for
preventive care.



•PPACA also includes three “risk adjuster” programs that will introduce new requirements beginning in 2014 depending on the risk mix of
individuals enrolled in the individual and small group markets. Among other things, these programs require insurers enrolling lower-risk individuals to pay into funds to compensate insurers enrolling higher-risk individuals. Details of these
programs in the form of proposed regulations may emerge in 2011.



•Recent federal court decisions questioning the constitutionality of all or portions of the new federal health care reform legislation add further
uncertainty to our ability to understand the ultimate impacts of the legislation on our overall business.



Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act



During 2010, the U.S. Congress passed and the President
signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a far-reaching overhaul of the framework for the U.S. financial services industry. Even though we are primarily a
health benefits company, our business may be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act. Many of its provisions require the adoption of rules for implementation, including those that govern which non-bank financial companies may become subject to the oversight
of the Federal Reserve. The Dodd-Frank Act identifies non-bank financial companies that may become subject to Federal Reserve oversight as those that could pose a threat to financial stability either due to the potential of material financial
distress at the company or due to the company’s ongoing activities. The Financial Stability Oversight Council, or the Council, recently published proposed criteria and a framework for determining which non-bank financial companies meet these
definitions. These criteria and framework are subject to a public comment period and will then result in final rules that may or may not be different from the proposals. The Council announced that it will begin evaluating companies against the final
rules shortly thereafter. We believe that we might be considered a non-bank financial company and it is possible that we could become subject to additional oversight by the Federal Reserve under the final rules.



In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a Federal Insurance
Office, with limited powers that include information-gathering and subpoena authority. Although the Federal Insurance Office does not have authority over health insurance, it may have authority over other parts of our business, such as life
insurance.



HIPAA and Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act



The federal Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes obligations for issuers of health insurance coverage and health benefit plan sponsors. This law requires guaranteed renewability of health care coverage for most group health plans and certain
individuals. Also, the law limits exclusions based on preexisting medical conditions.



The Administrative Simplification provisions of HIPAA imposed a number of requirements on covered entities (including insurers, HMOs, group health plans, providers and clearinghouses). These requirements
include uniform standards of common electronic health care transactions; privacy and security regulations; and unique identifier rules for employers, health plans and providers. Additional federal privacy and security requirements, including breach
notification, improved enforcement and additional limitations on use and disclosure of protected health information were passed through the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH, provisions of the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and corresponding implementing regulations. Additional implementing regulations relating to HITECH are expected in 2011.



The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally places
restrictions on the disclosure of non-public information to non-affiliated third parties, and requires financial institutions, including insurers, to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal information is used,
including an opportunity to







“opt out” of certain disclosures. State departments of insurance and certain federal agencies adopted implementing regulations as required by federal law. A number of states have
adopted data security laws and/or regulations, regulating data security and/or requiring security breach notification, which may apply to us in certain circumstances.



Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974



The provision of services to certain employee
welfare benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, a complex set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation and enforcement by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of
Labor. ERISA regulates certain aspects of the relationships between us, the employers who maintain employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Some of our administrative services and other activities may also be
subject to regulation under ERISA. In addition, certain states require licensure or registration of companies providing third party claims administration services for benefit plans. We provide a variety of products and services to employee welfare
benefit plans that are covered by ERISA. Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws and the question of whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law has been, and will continue to be, interpreted by many courts.



HMO and Insurance Holding Company Laws



We are regulated as an insurance holding company and are
subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company and HMO subsidiaries are domiciled. These acts contain certain reporting requirements as well as restrictions on transactions between an insurer or HMO and
its affiliates. These holding company laws and regulations generally require insurance companies and HMOs within an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of each state where they are domiciled and to file with
those states’ insurance departments certain reports describing capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. In addition, various notice and reporting requirements
generally apply to transactions between insurance companies and HMOs and their affiliates within an insurance holding company system, depending on the size and nature of the transactions. Some insurance holding company laws and regulations require
prior regulatory approval or, in certain circumstances, prior notice of certain material intercompany transfers of assets as well as certain transactions between insurance companies, HMOs, their parent holding companies and affiliates. Among other
provisions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.



Additionally, the holding company acts of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled restrict the ability of any person to obtain
control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of an insurance holding company, which controls an insurance company
or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance holding company. “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the
direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person.



Guaranty Fund Assessments



Under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states,
insurance companies can be assessed for amounts paid by guaranty funds for policyholder losses incurred when an insurance company becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty association laws currently provide for assessments based upon the
amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within such state (with a minimum amount payable even if no premium is received). Under many of these guaranty association laws, assessments against insurance companies that issue policies of
accident or sickness insurance are made retrospectively.







While the amount and timing of any future assessments cannot be predicted with certainty, we
believe that future guaranty association assessments for insurer insolvencies will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources with the exception of potential exposure related to the Penn Treaty Network America
Insurance Company and its subsidiary American Network Insurance Company insolvency as discussed under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” included in this Form 10-K.



Risk-Based Capital Requirements



The states of domicile of our regulated subsidiaries have
statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other insurance companies and HMOs based on the RBC Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to assess the capital adequacy of life and health insurers and HMOs, taking into
account the risk characteristics of a company’s investments and products. The RBC Model Act sets forth the formula for calculating the RBC requirements, which are designed to take into account asset risks, insurance risks, interest rate risks
and other relevant risks with respect to an individual company’s business. In general, under these laws, an insurance company or HMO must submit a report of its RBC level to the insurance department or insurance commissioner of its state of
domicile for each calendar year.



The law requires
increasing degrees of regulatory oversight and intervention as a company’s RBC declines. The RBC Model Act provides for four different levels of regulatory attention depending on the ratio of a company’s total adjusted capital (defined as
the total of its statutory capital, surplus and asset valuation reserve) to its risk-based capital. The level of regulatory oversight ranges from requiring the company to inform and obtain approval from the domiciling insurance commissioner of a
comprehensive financial plan for increasing its RBC, to mandatory regulatory intervention requiring a company to be placed under regulatory control in a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding. As of December 31, 2010, the RBC levels of our
insurance and HMO subsidiaries exceeded all RBC thresholds.



Employees



At December 31, 2010, we had approximately 37,500 employees. As of December 31, 2010, a small portion of employees were covered
by collective bargaining agreements: 157 employees in the Sacramento, California area with the Office and Professional Employees International Union, Local 29; 49 employees in the greater Detroit, Michigan area with the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, Local No. 614; 12 employees in the New York city metropolitan area with the Office and Professional Employees International Union, Local 153; and 24 employees in Milwaukee, Wisconsin
with the Office and Professional Employees International Union, Local 9. Our employees are an important asset, and we seek to develop them to their full potential. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.



