ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

General

We are one of the largest health benefits companies in terms of medical membership in the United States, serving

37.5 million



medical members through our affiliated health plans as of

December 31, 2014

.

We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding


counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as BCBS in


New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties, and as Blue Cross or BCBS in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, or Empire Blue Cross (in our New York service areas). We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees in the states of South Carolina and Texas. We conduct business through our AMERIGROUP Corporation, or Amerigroup, subsidiary, in Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Tennessee, Texas and Washington. We also serve customers throughout the country as HealthLink, UniCare (including a non-risk arrangement with the state of Massachusetts), and in certain Arizona, California, Nevada, New York and Virginia markets through our CareMore Health Group, Inc., or CareMore, subsidiary. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all


states through our subsidiaries.



In February 2015, we reported that we were the target of a sophisticated external cyber attack. The attackers gained unauthorized access to certain of our information technology systems and obtained personal information related to many of our current and former members and employees. We are in the process of determining the extent of this cyber attack and are supporting federal law enforcement efforts to identify the responsible parties. For additional information about the cyber attack, see Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies -Data Breach,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

On February 17, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Simply Healthcare Holdings, Inc., or Simply Healthcare, a leading managed care company for people enrolled in Medicaid and Medicare programs in the state of Florida. This acquisition, which was originally announced on December 22, 2014, aligns with our strategy for continued growth in our Government Business segment. As a result, we will, through our affiliated Medicaid and Medicare plans, serve more than half a million members in the state of Florida.

We have a vision of becoming America's valued health partner. Together we are transforming health care with trusted and caring solutions and as a result, we focus on delivering quality products and services that give members access to the care they need. With an unyielding commitment to meeting the needs of our diverse customers, we are guided by the following values:

•Accountable

•Caring

•Easy to do business with

•Innovative

•Trustworthy

We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to large and small employer, individual, Medicaid and Medicare markets. Our managed care plans include: preferred provider organizations, or PPOs; health maintenance organizations, or HMOs; point-of-service, or POS, plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including consumer-driven health plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only and limited benefit products. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services. We provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life



-3-





and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal health care. We also provide services to the federal government in connection with the Federal Employee Program, or FEP. We also sold contact lenses, eyeglasses and other ocular products through our 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc., or 1-800 CONTACTS, business which was divested on January 31, 2014.

Economic factors and greater consumer and employer sophistication and accountability have resulted in an increased demand for choice in both product/benefit designs and provider network configurations. As a result we continue to offer our broad access PPO networks with multiple benefit designs, but are also focused on leveraging our emerging provider collaboration initiatives with our Accountable Care Organization, or ACO, partnerships to develop both narrow and tiered network offerings. This array of network and product configurations allows both the employer and the employee to design and select the combination of benefit designs (e.g., traditional PPOs, high deductibles, HRAs, HSAs, gatekeeper based products, tiered copays) and networks (e.g., broad, narrow, tiered, closed and open) that optimize choice, quality and price at the consumer, employer and market level. We believe we are well-positioned in each of our states to respond to these market preferences.

For our fully-insured products, we charge a premium and assume all of the health care risk. Under self-funded and partially-insured products, we charge a fee for services, and the employer or plan sponsor reimburses us for all or most of the health care costs. In addition, we charge a premium to provide administrative services to Large Group employers that maintain self-funded health plans and we underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans.

Our medical membership includes seven different customer types:

•Local Group

•Individual

•National Accounts

•BlueCard®

•Medicare

•Medicaid

•FEP

BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA. Non-BCBS-branded business refers to members in our non-BCBS-branded Amerigroup and CareMore plans, as well as HealthLink and UniCare members. In addition to the above medical membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business.



-4-





Our products are generally developed and marketed with an emphasis on the differing needs of our customers. In particular, our product development and marketing efforts take into account the differing characteristics between the various customers served by us, as well as the unique needs of educational and public entities, labor groups, federal employee health and benefit programs, national employers and state-run programs servicing low-income, high-risk and under-served markets. Each business unit is responsible for product design, pricing, enrolling, underwriting and servicing customers in specific customer types. Overall, we seek to establish pricing and product designs to provide value for our customers while achieving an appropriate level of profitability for each of our customer categories balanced with the competitive objective to grow market share. We believe that one of the keys to our success has been our focus on these distinct customer types, which better enables us to develop benefit plans and services that meet our customers’ unique needs.

We market our products through direct marketing activities and an extensive network of independent agents, brokers and retail partnerships for Individual and Medicare customers, and for certain Local Group customers with a smaller employee base. Products for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer and working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force.In the Individual and Small Group markets, we offer on-exchange products through state or federally facilitated marketplaces, referred to as public exchanges; and off-exchange products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain members who purchase certain public exchange products.

Each of the BCBS member companies, of which there were 37 independent primary licensees as ofDecember 31, 2014, works cooperatively in a number of ways that create significant market advantages, especially when competing for very large multi-state employer groups. As a result of this cooperation, each BCBS member company is able to take advantage of other BCBS licensees’ substantial provider networks and discounts when any BCBS member works or travels outside of the state in which their policy is written. This program is referred to as BlueCard® and is a source of revenue when we provide member services in the states where we are the BCBS licensee to individuals who are customers of BCBS plans not affiliated with us. This program also provides a national provider network for our members when they travel to other states.

For additional information describing each of our customer types, detailed marketing efforts and changes in medical membership over the last three years, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our results of operations depend in large part on accurately predicting health care costs and our ability to manage future health care costs through adequate product pricing, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts.

The aging of the population and other demographic characteristics and advances in medical technology continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit programs by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality initiatives and financial incentives. Our significant market share and high business retention rates enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive and early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses. In addition, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative costs continues to be a driver of our overall profitability.

Our future results of operations will also be impacted by certain external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, as well as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively, Health Care Reform, became law, causing significant changes to the U.S. health care system. Since then, significant regulations have been enacted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Department of Labor and the Department of the Treasury.The legislation and regulations are far-reaching and are intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time by increasing the eligibility thresholds for most state Medicaid programs and providing certain other individuals and small businesses with tax credits to subsidize a portion of the cost of health insurance coverage.As a result of the complexity of the law, its impact on health care in the United States and the continuing modification and interpretation of Health Care Reform rules, we continue to analyze and refine our estimates of the ultimate impact of Health Care Reform on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Health Care Reform provides growth opportunities for health insurers, but also introduces new risks and



-5-





uncertainties, and required changes in the way products are designed, underwritten, priced, distributed and administered.For additional discussion, see “Regulation,” herein and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In addition to the external forces discussed in the precedingparagraph,our results of operations are impacted by levels and mix of membership. In recent history, we experienced membership declines due to unfavorable economic conditions driving increased unemployment. In addition, we believe the self-insured portion of our group membership base will continue to increase as a percentage of total group membership.These membership trends could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Private exchanges have recently gained significant visibility in the marketplace based on the promise of helping employers reduce costs, increase consumer engagement and manage the complexities created by the ACA and other market forces. While private exchanges have been a distribution channel in the Medicare and Individual markets for some time, the heightened level of activity and investment among the consulting and broker communities and other health insurance carriers has generated an increasing level of interest among employers in the Commercial market. To date, adoption levels have been lower than analyst predictions, but expectations for significant longer term growth remain. While the ultimate volume, pace of growth and winning business models remain highly uncertain, we believe private exchanges will provide opportunities for growth and will serve a significant role in our future strategy.

Our approach to the private exchange market has been broad-based and we believe we are well positioned to adapt with the market as it evolves. In 2011, we jointly acquired Bloom Health with Health Care Service Corporation and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, and today it offers this advanced consumer experience platform to employers as Anthem Health Marketplace. We also currently participate in four large national consultant-led exchanges, several regional broker-led exchanges and various individual, commercial and Medicare exchanges. Although overall private exchange activity has been limited, we have experienced positive membership gains among early adopters, reinforcing the strength of our market position and the value we deliver to employers and consumers. We will continue to assess this highly dynamic market, build out internal capabilities and enhance partnerships to ensure we are best positioned to capitalize on future growth.

We continue to enhance interactions with customers, providers, brokers, agents, employees and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology and improving internal operations. Our approach includes not only sales and distribution of health benefits products on the Internet, but also implementation of advanced capabilities that improve services benefiting customers, agents, brokers, and providers while optimizing administrative costs. These enhancements can also help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care through increased communications between patients and their physicians.

We intend to continue pursuing our vision of becoming America's valued health partner by transforming health care with trusted and caring solutions and by delivering quality products and services that give members access to the care they need. At the same time, we will focus on earnings per share, or EPS, growth through organic membership gains, improvements in our operating cost structure, strategic acquisitions and the efficient use of capital.



-6-





Significant Transactions

While Health Care Reform has caused significant changes to the U.S. health care system in recent years, the more significant transactions that have occurred over the last five years that have impacted or will impact our capital structure or that have or will influence how we conduct our business operations include:

•Acquisition of Simply Healthcare (2015);

•Use of Capital—Board of Directors declaration of dividends on common stock (2011 through 2014) and a 42.9% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.6250 per share (2015); authorization for repurchases of our common stock (2014 and prior); and debt repurchases and new debt issuance (2014 and prior);

•Acquisition of Amerigroup and the related debt issuance (2012);

•Acquisition of 1-800 CONTACTS (2012) and subsequent divestiture (2014); and

•Acquisition of CareMore (2011).

For additional information regarding certain of these transactions, see Note 3, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures,” Note 12, “Debt,” and Note 14, “Capital Stock,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

The managed care industry is highly competitive, both nationally and in our local markets. Competition continues to be intense due to aggressive marketing, business consolidations, a proliferation of new products, the impact of Health Care Reform, and increased quality awareness and price sensitivity among customers.

Managed care industry participants compete for customers mainly on the following factors:

•quality of service;

•price;

•access to provider networks;

•access to care management and wellness programs, including health information;

•innovation, breadth and flexibility of products and benefits;

•reputation (including National Committee on Quality Assurance, or NCQA, accreditation status);

•brand recognition; and

•financial stability.

Over the last few years, a health plan’s ability to interact with employers, members and other third parties (including health care professionals) via the Internet has become a more important competitive factor, and we have made significant investments in technology to enhance our electronic interaction with providers, employers, members and third parties.

We believe our exclusive right to market products under the most recognized brand in the industry, BCBS, in our most significant markets provides us with an advantage over our competition. Our provider networks in our markets enable us to achieve efficiencies and distinctive service levels enabling us to offer a broad range of health benefits to our customers on a more cost-effective basis than many of our competitors. We strive to distinguish our products through provider access, service, care management, product value and brand recognition.

Pricing in our Commercial and Specialty Business segment(defined below),including our Individual and Small Group lines of business, remains competitive, but rational, and we strive to price our health care benefit products consistent with anticipated underlying medical trends. We believe our pricing strategy, based on predictive modeling, proprietary research and data-driven processes, as well as our overall investments for Health Care Reform, have positioned us to benefit from the potential growth opportunities available in fully-insured commercial products as a result of Health Care Reform.While the ultimate level of public exchange enrollment cannot be predicted, we have experienced a greater number of policy



-7-





applications for new members through the public exchanges than expected, including geographical regions with lower price competition. The public exchanges may increase the risk that our products will be selected by individuals who have a higher risk profile or utilization rate than the pool of participants we anticipated when we established the pricing for these public exchange products. However, the risk characteristics of new applicants in 2014 tracked closely to the risk levels utilized in the development of our pricing assumptions. Although it is not yet clear whether our products sold on the public exchanges will be more or less profitable products, we believe that our pricing strategy, brand name and network quality will provide a strong foundation for commercial risk membership growth opportunities in the future.

To build our provider networks, we compete with other health benefits plans for the best contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers. We believe that physicians and other providers primarily consider member volume, reimbursement rates, timeliness of reimbursement and administrative service capabilities along with the reduction of non-value added administrative tasks when deciding whether to contract with a health benefits plan.

At the sales and distribution level, we compete for qualified agents and brokers to recommend and distribute our products. Strong competition exists among insurance companies and health benefits plans for agents and brokers with demonstrated ability to secure new business and maintain existing accounts. We believe that the quality and price of our products, support services, reputation and prior relationships, along with a reasonable commission structure are the factors agents and brokers consider in choosing whether to market our products. We believe that we have good relationships with our agents and brokers, and that our products, support services and commission structure compare favorably to those of our competitors in all of our markets. Typically, we are the largest competitor in each of our Blue-branded markets and, thus, are a closely watched target by other insurance competitors.

Reportable Segments

We currently manage our operations through three reportable segments: Commercial and Specialty Business, Government Business and Other. We regularly evaluate the appropriateness of our reportable segments, particularly in light of organizational changes, merger and acquisition activity and changing laws and regulations. Therefore, these reportable segments may change in the future.

Our Commercial and Specialty Business and Government Business segments both offer a diversified mix of managed care products, including PPOs, HMOs, traditional indemnity benefits and POS plans, as well as a variety of hybrid benefit plans including CDHPs, hospital only and limited benefit products.

Our Commercial and Specialty Business segment includes our Local Group, National Accounts, Individual and Specialty businesses. Business units in the Commercial and Specialty Business segment offer fully-insured health products; provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services; and provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal health care guidance.

Our Government Business segment includes Medicare and Medicaid businesses, National Government Services, or NGS, and services provided to the federal government in connection withFEP. Medicare business includes services such as Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and Medicare Supplement. Medicaid business includes our managed care alternatives through publicly funded health care programs, including Medicaid;Temporary Assistance for Needy Familyprograms, or TANF;programs for seniors and people with disabilities, or SPD;programs for long-term services and support, or LTSS;Children’s Health Insurance Programs, or CHIP;and ACA-relatedMedicaid expansion programs. NGS acts as a Medicare contractor in several regions across the nation.

Our Other segment includes other businesses that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for an operating segment as defined byFinancial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB,guidance, as well as corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments.

Through our participation in various federal government programs, we generated approximately21.0%,20.3%and23.7%of our total consolidated revenues from agencies of the U.S. government for the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013



-8-





and2012, respectively. These revenues are contained in the Government Business segment. An immaterial amount of our total consolidated revenues are derived from activities outside of the U.S.

For additional information regarding the operating results of our segments, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 19, “Segment Information,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Products and Services

A general description of our products and services is provided below:

Preferred Provider Organization:PPO products offer the member an option to select any health care provider, with benefits reimbursed by us at a higher level when care is received from a participating network provider. Coverage is subject to co-payments or deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.

Consumer-Driven Health Plans:CDHPs provide consumers with increased financial responsibility, choice and control regarding how their health care dollars are spent. Generally, CDHPs combine a high-deductible PPO plan with an employer-funded and/or employee-funded personal care account, which may result in tax benefits to the employee. Some or all of the dollars remaining in the personal care account at year-end can be rolled over to the next year for future health care needs.

Traditional Indemnity:Indemnity products offer the member an option to select any health care provider for covered services. Coverage is subject to deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.

Health Maintenance Organization:HMO products include comprehensive managed care benefits, generally through a participating network of physicians, hospitals and other providers. A member in one of our HMOs must typically select a primary care physician, or PCP, from our network. PCPs generally are family practitioners, internists or pediatricians who provide necessary preventive and primary medical care, and are generally responsible for coordinating other necessary health care services. We offer HMO plans with varying levels of co-payments, which result in different levels of premium rates.

Point-of-Service:POS products blend the characteristics of HMO, PPO and indemnity plans. Members can have comprehensive HMO-style benefits through participating network providers with minimum out-of-pocket expenses (co-payments) and also can go directly, without a referral, to any provider they choose, subject to, among other things, certain deductibles and coinsurance. Member cost sharing is limited by out-of-pocket maximums.

ACA Public Exchange and Off-Exchange Products:The ACA required the modification of existing products and development of new products to meet the requirements of the legislation, subject to certain transitional relief. Individual and Small Group products cover essential health benefits as defined in the ACA along with many other requirements and cost sharing features. Individual and Small Group products offered on and off the public exchanges meet the definition of the “metal” product requirements (bronze, silver, gold and platinum) and each metal product must satisfy a specific actuarial value. Health insurers participating on the public exchanges must offer at least one silver and one gold product.

In our Individual markets we offer bronze, silver and gold products, both on and off the public exchanges, in the states of California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Virginia and Wisconsin. Additionally, we offer platinum products, both on and off the public exchanges, in the states of California and New York.

In our Small Group markets, we offer bronze, silver and gold products, both on and off the public exchanges, in the states of Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri, New Hampshire, Ohio and Virginia and we offer bronze, silver and gold products, off the public exchanges, in the states of California, New York and Wisconsin. Additionally, we offer platinum products, off the public exchanges, in the states of California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Maine, New Hampshire, Missouri and Virginia.

Administrative Services:In addition to fully-insured products, we provide administrative services to Large Group employers that maintain self-funded health plans. These administrative services include underwriting, actuarial services, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs, claims processing and other administrative services for self-funded employers. Self-funded health plans are also able to use our provider networks and to realize savings through our



-9-





negotiated provider arrangements, while allowing employers the ability to design certain health benefit plans in accordance with their own requirements and objectives. We also underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans.

BlueCard®:BlueCard®host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which an Anthem subsidiary is the Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer sponsored health plan serviced by a non-Anthem controlled BCBS licensee, which is the “home” plan. We perform certain administrative functions for BlueCard®host members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard®members’ home plans. Other administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan.

Medicare Plans:We offer a wide variety of plans, products and options to individuals age 65 and older such as Medicare supplement plans, Medicare Advantage (including private fee-for-service plans and special needs plans), Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans, or Medicare Part D, and Medicare-Medicaid Plans, or MMPs. Medicare supplement plans typically pay the difference between health care costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. In addition, our Medicare Advantage special needs plans provide tailored benefits to Medicare beneficiaries who have chronic diseases and also cover certain dual eligible customers, who are low-income seniors and persons under age 65 with disabilities who are enrolled in MMPs. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and MMP beneficiaries. MMPs are managed care products serving members who are dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare. We offer these plans to customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country, including Amerigroup and CareMore.

Individual Plans:We offer a full range of health insurance plans with a variety of options and deductibles for individuals under age 65 who are not covered by employer-sponsored coverage. Some of our products target certain demographic populations such as uninsured younger individuals between the ages of 19 and 29, families, those transitioning between jobs or early retirees. Individual policies are generally sold through independent agents and brokers, retail partnerships, our in-house sales force or via the Internet. Individual business is sold on a fully-insured basis. We offer public exchange products and off-exchange products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain public exchange products. Individual customers are generally more sensitive to product pricing and, to a lesser extent, the configuration of the network, and the efficiency of administration.



Medicaid Plans and Other State-Sponsored Programs:

Pharmacy Products:We market and sell an integrated prescription drug product to both fully-insured and self-funded customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country. This comprehensive product includes features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy network and maintenance of a prescription drug database and mail order capabilities. Since December 1, 2009, we have delegated certain functions and administrative services related to our integrated prescription drug products to Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, under a ten year contract, excluding some Amerigroup subsidiaries and certain self-insured members, which have exclusive agreements with different pharmacy benefit management, or PBM, service providers. It is expected that those Amerigroup subsidiaries will complete their transition to the Express Scripts agreement during 2015. Express Scripts manages the network of pharmacy providers, operates mail order pharmacies and



-10-





processes prescription drug claims on our behalf, while we sell and support the product for clients, make formulary decisions and set drug benefit design strategy and provide front line member support.

Life Insurance:We offer an array of competitive individual and group life insurance benefit products to both Large Group and Small Group customers in conjunction with our health plans. The life products include term life and accidental death and dismemberment.

Disability:We offer short-term and long-term disability products, usually in conjunction with our health plans.

Radiology Benefit Management:We offer outpatient diagnostic imaging management services to health plans. These services include utilization management for advanced diagnostic imaging procedures, network development and optimization, patient safety, claims adjudication and provider payment.

Personal Health Care Guidance:We offer leading evidence-based and analytics-driven personal health care guidance. These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs.

Dental:Our dental plans include networks in certain states in which we operate. Many of the dental benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. Our members also have access to additional dental providers through our participation in the National Dental GRID, a national dental network developed by and for BCBS plans. The National Dental GRID includes dentists in all 50 states and provides multi-state customers with a national solution providing in-network discounts across the country. Additionally, we offer managed dental services to other health care plans to assist those plans in providing dental benefits to their customers.

Vision Services and Products:Our vision plans include networks within the states in which we operate. Many of the vision benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. In addition to vision plans, we sold contact lenses, eyeglasses and other ocular products through our 1-800 CONTACTS subsidiary which we divested on January 31, 2014.

Medicare Administrative Operations:Through our subsidiary, NGS, we serve as a fiscal intermediary, carrier and Medicare administrative contractor providing administrative services for the Medicare program, which generally provides coverage for persons who are 65 or older and for persons who are disabled or with end-stage renal disease. Part A of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other health care facilities. Part B of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by physicians, physical and occupational therapists and other professional providers, as well as certain durable medical equipment and medical supplies.

Networks and Provider Relations

Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and professionals that render health care services to our members are guided by local, regional and national standards for network development, reimbursement and contract methodologies. While following industry standards, we are simultaneously seeking to lead transformation efforts within our health care system, moving from our current fragmented model premised on episodic intervention to one based on proactive, coordinated care built around the needs of the patient. A key element of this transformation involves a transition from traditional fee-for-service payment models to models where providers are paid based on the value, both in quality and affordability, of the care they deliver.

We establish “market-based” hospital reimbursement payments that we believe are fair, but aggressive, and among the most competitive in the market. We also seek to ensure that physicians in our network are paid in a timely manner at appropriate rates. In many instances, we deploy multi-year contracting strategies, including case rates or fixed rates, to limit our exposure to medical cost inflation and to increase cost predictability. We maintain both broad and narrow provider networks to ensure member choice, based on both price and access needs, while implementing programs designed to improve the quality of care our members receive. Increasingly, we are supplementing our broad based networks with smaller or more cost-effective networks that are designed to be attractive to a more price-sensitive customer segment, such as public exchange customers.

Our reimbursement strategies vary across markets and depend on the degree of consolidation and integration of physician groups and hospitals. Fee-for-service is currently our predominant reimbursement methodology for physicians, but



-11-





as noted above, we are transitioning providers to value-based payment contracts. More traditional physician fee schedules are developed at the state level based on an assessment of several factors and conditions, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, resource-based relative value system, or RBRVS, medical practice cost inflation and physician supply. We utilize CMS RBRVS fee schedules as a reference point for fee schedule development and analysis. The RBRVS structure was developed, maintained, and updated by CMS and is used by the Medicare program and other major payers. In addition, we have implemented and continue to expand physician incentive contracting, or “pay for performance”, which ties physician payment levels to performance on clinical measures.

While we generally do not delegate full financial responsibility to our physician providers in the form of capitation-based reimbursement, there are certain markets where the market dynamics result in this being a useful method to lower costs and reduce underwriting risk, thus we do utilize this payment method in those markets.

Our hospital contracts provide for a variety of reimbursement arrangements depending on local market dynamics and current hospital utilization efficiency. Most hospitals are reimbursed a fixed amount per day or reimbursed a per-case amount, per admission, for inpatient covered services. A small percentage of hospitals, primarily rural, sole community hospitals, are reimbursed on a discount from approved charge basis for covered services. Our “per-case” reimbursement methods utilize many of the same attributes contained in Medicare’s Diagnosis Related Groups, or DRG, methodology. Hospital outpatient services are reimbursed by fixed case rates, fee schedules or percent of approved charges. Our hospital contracts recognize unique hospital attributes, such as academic medical centers or community hospitals, and the volume of care performed for our members. To improve predictability of expected costs, we frequently use a multi-year contracting approach with providers. In addition, the majority of our hospital contracts include a “pay for performance” component where reimbursement levels are linked to improved clinical performance, patient safety and medical error reduction.

Medical Management Programs

Our medical management programs include a broad array of activities that facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost-effective medical care. These medical management activities and programs are administered and directed by physicians and trained nurses. The goals of our medical management strategies are to ensure that the care delivered to our members is supported by appropriate medical and scientific evidence, is received on a timely basis and occurs in the most appropriate location.

Precertification:A traditional medical management program involves assessment of the appropriateness of certain hospitalizations and other medical services prior to the service being rendered. For example, precertification is used to determine whether a set of hospital and medical services is being appropriately applied to the member’s clinical condition, in accordance with criteria for medical necessity as that term is defined in the member’s benefits contract. All of our health plans have implemented precertification programs for common high-tech radiology studies, including cardiac diagnostic



-12-





testing, addressing an area of historically significant cost trends. Through our AIM Specialty Health, or AIM, subsidiary we promote appropriate, safe and affordable member care in imaging as well as oncology, sleep management and specialty pharmacy benefits. These expanded specialty benefit management solutions leverage clinical expertise and technology to engage our provider communities and members in more effective and efficient use of outpatient services.

Care Coordination:Another traditional medical management strategy we use is care coordination, which is based on nationally recognized criteria developed by third-party medical specialists. With inpatient care coordination, the requirements and intensity of services during a patient’s hospital stay are reviewed, at times by an onsite skilled nurse professional in collaboration with the hospital’s medical and nursing staff, in order to coordinate care and determine the most effective transition of care from the hospital setting. In addition, guidance for many continued stay cases is reviewed with physician medical directors to ensure appropriate utilization of medical services. We also coordinate care for outpatient services to help ensure that patients with chronic conditions who receive care from multiple physicians are able to manage the exchange of information between physicians and coordinate office visits to their physicians.

Case Management:We have implemented a medical management strategy focused on identifying the small percentage of the membership that will require a high level of intervention to manage their health care needs. The registered nurses and medical directors focus on members likely to be readmitted to the hospital and help them coordinate their care through pharmacy compliance, post-hospital care, follow-up visits to see their physician and support in their home.

Formulary management:We have developed formularies, which are selections of drugs based on clinical quality and effectiveness. A pharmacy and therapeutics committee of physicians uses scientific and clinical evidence to ensure that our members have access to the appropriate drug therapies.

Medical policy:A medical policy group, comprised of physician leaders from various areas of the country, working in cooperation with academic medical centers, practicing community physicians and medical specialty organizations such as the American College of Radiology and national organizations such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Cancer Society, determines our national policy for the application of new medical technologies and treatments.

Quality programs:We are actively engaged with our hospital and physician networks to enable them to improve medical and surgical care and achieve better outcomes for our members. We endorse, encourage and incentivize hospitals and physicians to support national initiatives to improve the quality of clinical care and patient outcomes and to reduce medication errors and hospital infections. We have demonstrated our leadership in developing hospital quality programs.

External review procedures:We work with outside experts through a process of external review to provide our members scientifically and clinically, evidence-based medical care. When we receive member concerns, we have formal appeals procedures that ultimately allow coverage disputes related to medical necessity decisions under the benefits contract to be settled by independent expert physicians.

Service management:In HMO and POS networks, primary care physicians serve as the overall coordinators of members’ health care needs by providing an array of preventive health services and overseeing referrals to specialists for appropriate medical care. In PPO networks, patients have access to network physicians without a primary care physician serving as the coordinator of care.

Estimate Your Cost & Anthem Care Comparison:These health care provider comparison tools disclose typical cost estimates and quality data for common services at contracted providers, with cost estimates accounting for facility, professional and ancillary services. The cost estimates bundle related services typically performed at the time of the procedure, not just for the procedure itself. Users can review cost data for over 350 procedures in 49 states. The Estimate Your Cost tool also includes member out-of-pocket cost estimates based on a member’s own benefit coverage, deductible, and out of pocket maximum. We also offer information on overall facility ratings and patient experience using trusted third party data. We continue to work on enhancing and evolving our tools to assist members in making informed and value-based health care decisions. In addition, we collaborate with an external independent vendor to support employers wanting to purchase a transparency and consumer engagement web solution with certain additional functionality.

Personal Health Care Guidance:These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. Examples of services include



-13-





member and physician messaging, providing access to evidence-based medical guidelines, physician quality profiling, and other consulting services.

Anthem Health Guide:Anthem Health Guide integrates customer service with clinical and wellness coaching to provide easier navigation of health care services for our members. Members are supported by a team of nurses, coaches, educators, and social workers using voice, click-to-chat, secure email and mobile technology. Our Smart Engagement Platform supports this integrated team using our smart engagement triggers for speech recognition, preventative and clinical gaps in care and highlighting when we have members who are identified for current health care support. This caring team of professionals also supports our members with our shared decision making support portfolio.

Care Management Programs

We continue to expand our360º Healthsuite of integrated care management programs and tools.360º Healthoffers the following programs, among others, that have been proven to increase quality and reduce medical costs for our members:

ConditionCareandFutureMomsare care management and maternity management programs that serve as adjuncts to physician care. Skilled nurse professionals with added support from our team of dietitians, social workers, pharmacists, health educators and other health professionals help participants understand their condition, their doctor’s orders and how to become a better self-manager of their condition. We also offer members infertility consultation through our SpecialOffers@Anthem program, a comprehensive and integrated assembly of discounted health and wellness products and services from a variety of the nation's leading retailers.

24/7 NurseLineoffers access to qualified, registered nurses anytime. This allows our members to make informed decisions about the appropriate level of care and avoid unnecessary worry. This program also includes a referral process to the nearest urgent care facility, a robust audiotape library, accessible by phone, with more than 400 health and wellness topics, as well as on-line health education topics designed to educate members about symptoms and treatment of many common health concerns.

ComplexCareis an advanced care management program that reaches out to participants with multiple health care issues who are at risk for frequent and high levels of medical care in order to offer support and assistance in managing their health care needs.ComplexCareidentifies candidates through claims analysis using predictive modeling techniques, the use of health risk assessment data, utilization management reports and referrals from a physician or one of our other programs, such as the24/7 NurseLine.

MyHealth Advantageutilizes integrated information systems and sophisticated data analytics to help our members improve their compliance with evidence-based care guidelines, providing personal care notes that alert members to potential gaps in care, enable more prudent health care choices, and assist in the realization of member out-of-pocket cost savings. Key opportunities are also shared with physicians through Availity®at the time of membership eligibility verification. Availity®is an electronic data interchange system that allows for the exchange of health information among providers over a secure network.

MyHealth Coachprovides our members with a professional guide who helps them navigate the health care system and make better decisions about their well-being.MyHealth Coachproactively reaches out to people who are at risk for serious health issues or have complex health care needs. Our health coaches help participants understand and manage chronic conditions, handle any health and wellness related services they need and make smart lifestyle choices.

HealthyLifestyleshelps employees transform unhealthy habits into positive ones by focusing on behaviors that can have a positive effect on their health and their employer’s financial well-being.HealthyLifestylesprograms include smoking cessation, weight management, stress management, physical activity and diet and nutrition.

MyHealth@Anthemis our secure web-based solution, complementing other programs by reinforcing telephonic coaching and mail campaigns. The website engages participants in regularly assessing their health status, gives them feedback about their progress, and tracks important health measures such as blood pressure, weight and blood glucose levels.

Behavioral Health Case Managementprovides oversight of the delivery of mental health and substance abuse services as an integrated component of the health plan. The program assists providers and members with referrals, transitional care, episodic emergency care and other needs.



-14-





Employee Assistance Programsprovide many resources that allow members to balance work and personal life by providing quick and easy access to confidential resources to help meet the challenges of daily life. Examples of services available in person as well as via telephone or internet are counseling for child care, health and wellness, financial issues, legal issues, adoption and daily living.

Health Care Quality Initiatives

Increasingly, the health care industry is able to define quality health care based on preventive health measurements, outcomes of care and optimal care management for chronic disease. A key to our success has been our ability to work with our network physicians and hospitals to improve the quality and outcomes of the health care services provided to our members. Our ability to promote quality medical care has been recognized by the NCQA, the largest and most respected national accreditation program for managed care health plans.

Several quality health care measures, including the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS®, have been incorporated into the NCQA’s accreditation processes. HEDIS®measures range from preventive services, such as screening mammography and pediatric immunization, to elements of care, including decreasing the complications of diabetes and improving treatment for patients with heart disease. For health plans, NCQA’s highest accreditation status of Excellent is granted only to those plans that demonstrate levels of service and clinical quality that meet or exceed NCQA’s rigorous requirements for consumer protection and quality improvement. Plans earning this accreditation level must also achieve HEDIS®results that are in the highest range of national or regional performance. Details for each of our plans’ accreditation levels can be found at www.ncqa.org.

We have created an innovative program called the State Health Index, or SHI, to quantify and track our success in improving the health of our communities. SHI presents a comprehensive picture of a community’s health in the 24 states served by our affiliated health plans. It is compiled from public data and includes 14 health indicators in four domains: Maternity Care, Preventive Care, Lifestyle, and Morbidity/Mortality. The metrics are utilized to identify opportunities for health improvement and leverage our strengths to build partnerships with community coalitions, patient advocacy organizations, and local and state public health departments. We analyze states' performance measures and prioritize measures for focused improvement. Together with Anthem Foundation, Inc. and state leadership, we create or enhance programs to improve the health of the entire population in these states - not just for our members.

Our AIM subsidiary supports quality by implementing clinical appropriateness and patient safety solutions for advanced imaging procedures, cardiology, sleep medicine, specialty pharmaceuticals and oncology, including drugs covered under medical benefit and radiation therapy. These programs, based on widely accepted clinical guidelines, promote the most appropriate use of diagnostic and therapeutic services to improve the quality of overall health care delivered to our members and members of other health plans that are covered under AIM’s programs. To provide additional impact to its clinical appropriateness program, AIM has also implemented a provider assessment program, OptiNet®, which promotes more informed selection of diagnostic imaging and testing facilities by providing cost and facility information to physician offices at the point that a procedure is ordered. We have also leveraged AIM’s provider network assessment information to



-15-





proactively engage and educate our members about imaging providers and sleep testing choices based on site capabilities and cost differences. This program is another example of how we facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost effective medical care. In addition, AIM radiology, cardiology, sleep medicine, radiation therapy, network assessment and member engagement solutions have been evaluated as quality improvement expenses under the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, medical loss ratio, or MLR, regulations. Fees for these programs can be included in calculations of a health plan’s MLR.

Our wholly-owned analytics-driven subsidiary, Resolution Health, Inc., or RHI, delivers programs to improve the safety, quality and coordination of health care for our members. RHI uses evidence-based proprietary rules and algorithms based on established clinical guidelines and standards of independent accreditation organizations, medical specialty societies, and government agencies such as the National Quality Forum, or NQF, and NCQA. RHI analyzes claims and other data to identify actions that can improve health outcomes at the individual member level. When appropriate, RHI delivers personalized confidential messages ("Personalized Health Insights") to members, providers and care managers. RHI’s Personalized Health Insights support total population health management and the results of RHI analyses are used across our enterprise to support HEDIS and other clinical quality measures.

Pricing and Underwriting of Our Products

We price our products based on our assessment of current health care claim costs and emerging health care cost trends, combined with charges for administrative expenses, risk and profit, including charges for ACA taxes and fees. We continually review our product designs and pricing guidelines on a national and regional basis so that our products remain competitive and consistent with our profitability goals and strategies.

In applying our pricing to each employer group and customer, we maintain consistent, competitive, disciplined underwriting standards. We employ our proprietary accumulated actuarial data in determining underwriting and pricing parameters. Where allowed by law and regulation, we underwrite large groups based on each group’s aggregate claim experience. Also, we employ credit underwriting procedures with respect to our self-funded products.

In most circumstances, our pricing and underwriting decisions follow a prospective rating process in which a fixed premium is determined at the beginning of the contract period. For fully-insured business, any deviation, favorable or unfavorable, from the medical costs assumed in determining the premium is our responsibility. Some of our larger groups employ retrospective rating reviews, where positive experience is partially refunded to the group, and negative experience is charged against a rate stabilization fund established from the group’s favorable experience, or charged against future favorable experience.

BCBSA Licenses

We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive, and in certain areas, non-exclusive use of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in assigned geographic territories. BCBSA is a national trade association of Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensees, the primary function of which is to promote and preserve the integrity of the BCBS names and marks, as well as provide certain coordination among the member companies. Each BCBSA licensee is an independent legal organization and is not responsible for obligations of other BCBSA member organizations. We have no right to market products and services using the BCBS names and marks outside of the states in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products. We are required to pay an annual license fee to the BCBSA based on enrollment and also to comply with various operational, governance and financial standards set forth in the licenses.

We believe that we and our licensed affiliates are currently in compliance with these standards. The standards under the license agreements may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details of our licensing requirements and the impact if we were not to comply with these license agreements.



-16-





Regulation

General

Our operations are subject to comprehensive and detailed state, federal and international regulation throughout the jurisdictions in which we do business. As discussed below, the regulatory aspects of the U.S. health care system have been and will continue to be significantly affected by Health Care Reform. Supervisory agencies, including state health, insurance and corporation departments, have broad authority to:

•grant, suspend and revoke licenses to transact business;

•regulate many aspects of our products and services;

•monitor our solvency and reserve adequacy;

•scrutinize our investment activities on the basis of quality, diversification and other quantitative criteria; and

•impose monetary and criminal sanctions for non-compliance with regulatory requirements.

To carry out these tasks, these regulators periodically examine our operations and accounts.

Regulation of Insurance Company and HMO Business Activity

The governments of the states in which we conduct business, as well as the federal government, have adopted laws and regulations that govern our business activities in various ways. Further, Health Care Reform has resulted in increased federal regulation that significantly impacts our business. These laws and regulations, which vary significantly from state to state and on the federal level, restrict how we conduct our businesses and result in additional burdens and costs to us. Areas of governmental regulation include but are not limited to:

•medical loss ratios;

•tax deductibility of certain compensation and Health Care Reform related fees;

•licensure;

•premium rates;

•benefits;

•eligibility requirements;

•guaranteed availability and renewability;

•service areas;

•market conduct;

•sales and marketing activities, including use and compensation of brokers and other distribution channels;

•quality assurance procedures;

•plan design and disclosures, including mandated benefits;

•underwriting, marketing, pricing and rating restrictions for insurance products;

•utilization review activities;

•prompt payment of claims;

•member rights and responsibilities;

•collection, access or use of protected health information;

•data reporting, including financial data and standards for electronic transactions;

•payment of dividends;

•provider rates of payment;



-17-





•surcharges on provider payments;

•provider contract forms;

•provider access standards;

•premium taxes, assessments for the uninsured and/or underinsured, insolvency guaranty payments, federal taxes, public exchange fees and premium stabilization programs;

•member and provider complaints and appeals;

•financial condition (including reserves and minimum capital or risk based capital requirements and investments);

•reimbursement or payment levels for government funded business; and

•corporate governance and financial reporting.

These state and federal laws and regulations are subject to amendments and changing interpretations in each jurisdiction.

States generally require health insurers and HMOs to obtain a certificate of authority prior to commencing operations. If we were to establish a health insurance company or an HMO in any jurisdiction where we do not presently operate, we generally would have to obtain such a certificate. The time necessary to obtain such a certificate varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Each health insurer and HMO must file periodic financial and operating reports with the states in which it does business. In addition, health insurers and HMOs are subject to state examination and periodic license renewal. The health benefits business also may be adversely impacted by court and regulatory decisions that expand the interpretations of existing statutes and regulations. It is uncertain whether we can recoup, through higher premiums or other measures, the increased costs of mandated benefits or other increased costs caused by potential legislation, regulation or court rulings. See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act

The ACA has created significant changes and will continue to create significant changes for health insurance markets for the next several years. Specifically, many of the near-term changes were effective for certain groups and individuals on their first renewal on or after September 2010, including a prohibition on lifetime limits, certain annual limits, member cost-sharing on specified preventive benefits, pre-existing condition exclusions for children, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage and extension of coverage of dependents to the age of 26. Certain requirements for insurers were also effective in 2011, including changes to Medicare Advantage payments and the minimum MLR provision that requires insurers to pay rebates to customers when insurers do not meet or exceed the specified MLR thresholds. Most of the provisions of the ACA with more significant effects on the health insurance marketplace, both state and federal, went into effect on January 1, 2014, including a requirement that insurers guarantee the issuance of coverage to all individuals regardless of health status, strict rules on how health insurance is rated, the assessment of new taxes and fees (including annual fees on health insurance companies), the creation of public exchanges for Individuals and Small Groups, the availability of premium subsidies for certain Individual products, and substantial expansions in eligibility for Medicaid.

Despite significant preparation for the advent of the public exchanges, there have been many technical difficulties in their implementation, which entail uncertainties associated with mix and volume of business. In November 2013, CMS notified the various state Insurance Commissioners that, under a transitional policy, health insurance coverage in the Individual or Small Group markets that is renewed for a policy year starting between January 1, 2014 and October 1, 2014 that would otherwise have been deemed non-compliant with certain market reforms under Health Care Reform will not be considered by CMS to be out of compliance with respect to such market reforms, provided certain conditions are met. CMS further encouraged state agencies responsible for enforcing the specified market reforms to adopt the same transitional policy with respect to this coverage. Some states have adopted the transitional policy, some have declined to adopt it and yet others have not taken a position.

Additionally, in March 2014 a second round of transition relief was issued by CMS, providing that health insurance coverage in the Individual or Small Group markets that is renewed for a policy year beginning on or before October 1, 2016, that would otherwise have been deemed non-compliant with certain market reforms under Health Care Reform, will not be considered by CMS to be out of compliance with respect to such market reforms, provided certain conditions are met. Again, some states have adopted this transitional policy, some have not and others have not taken a position.



-18-





Due to the impact of the transitional policies, insurers in the ACA compliant Individual market, including Anthem, may be adversely selected by individuals who will have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in the public exchange markets. In addition, the risk adjustment, reinsurance, and risk corridor premium stabilization programs of Health Care Reform, or Health Care Reform Premium Stabilization Programs, established to apportion risk amongst insurers, may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to our public exchange products. These factors, along with the limited information about the individuals who have access to these newly established public exchanges that was available when we established premiums, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions utilized in setting adequate premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.

In addition, there have been other material changes and delays in the implementation of the ACA that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. These include:

•Delay in the effective date of the employer mandate from 2014 to 2015;

•Delay of the commencement of the 2015 open enrollment period from October 15 to November 15, 2014 through February 15, 2015; and

•Other unanticipated regulatory changes and delays.

These delays and changes may have a material and significant impact on anticipated enrollment in public exchange and off-exchange products, thus affecting the risk pools and premium rates. The technical difficulties in implementing the public exchanges have impacted the sharing of enrollment information between the federal government and health insurers. Finally, implementation of the ACA brings with it significant oversight responsibilities by health insurers that may result in increased governmental audits, increased assertions of False Claims Act violations, and an increased risk of other litigation.

The ACA continues to require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by HHS, the Department of Labor, CMS and the Department of the Treasury. These regulatory agencies continue to consider recommendations from external groups, such as the NAIC. Many provisions have final rules available for review while some proposed regulations have been released for comment or have yet to be released and others are in-process. Of particular note is the yet to be issued regulation pertaining to administrative simplification to create uniformity in implementing electronic standards. We continue to carefully evaluate each rule as it is issued; and, therefore, it continues to be too early to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business. Some of the more significant considerations of the ACA are described below:

•MLR regulations were issued by HHS in December 2011; however, significant changes could still occur to the MLR requirements through additional regulatory guidance and/or modification of the regulation. The minimum MLR thresholds by line of business, as defined by HHS, are as follows:

Line of Business%Large Group85Small Group80Individual80

New York state regulations require us to meet a more restrictive MLR threshold of 82% for both Small Group and Individual lines of business. The minimum MLR thresholds disclosed above are based on definitions of an MLR calculation provided by HHS, or specific states, as applicable, and differ from our calculation of “benefit expense ratio” based on premium revenue and benefit expense as reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Furthermore, the definitions of the lines of business differ under the various state and federal regulations and may not correspond to our lines of business. Definitions under the MLR regulation also impact insurers differently depending upon their organizational structure or tax status, which could result in a competitive advantage to some insurance providers that may not be available to us, resulting in an uneven playing field in the industry. Significant changes to the MLR requirements may occur through additional regulatory action by HHS.



-19-





Health Care Reform also imposed a separate minimum MLR threshold of 85% for Medicare Advantage plans beginning in 2014. Medicare Advantage plans that do not meet this threshold will have to pay a minimum MLR rebate. If a plan’s MLR is below 85% for three consecutive years beginning with 2014, enrollment will be restricted. A Medicare Advantage plan contract will be terminated if the plan's MLR is below 85% for five consecutive years.

Approximately 67.0% and 32.2% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2014. Approximately 63.1% and 27.3% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year endedDecember 31, 2013.

•The ACA required states to establish public exchanges by January 1, 2014 through which qualified individuals and qualified small employers may access coverage. If a state failed to establish a public exchange, the federal government established a public exchange in that state. To date sixteen states plus the District of Columbia have elected to operate state-based public exchanges. The remaining states have either a federal partnership public exchange (six states) or a federally operated public exchange (twenty-eight states). In the states in which we offer products on public exchanges, six states have passed legislation or executive orders establishing state-based public exchanges (California, Colorado, Connecticut, Kentucky, Nevada and New York).

•The ACA required the modification of existing products and development of new products to meet the requirements of the legislation, subject to certain transitional relief. Individual and Small Group products must cover essential health benefits as defined in the ACA along with many other requirements and cost sharing features. Individual and Small Group products must meet the definition of the “metal” product requirements (bronze, silver, gold and platinum). Each metal product must satisfy a specific actuarial value. Health insurers participating on public exchanges must offer at least one silver and one gold product. Additionally, effective January 1, 2014, health insurers were required to cancel or discontinue the sale of existing non-ACA-compliant Individual and Small Group products, subject to the conditions of the November 2013 and March 2014 CMS transitional policies discussed above.

•Regulations became effective in September 2011 that require filings for premium rate increases for Small Group and Individual products above specified thresholds, generally 10%, to be reviewed. The regulations provide for state insurance regulators to conduct the reviews, except for cases where a state does not have an “effective” rate review program or in federal enforcement states, in which cases HHS will conduct the reviews for any rate increase filed.



•

•Through December 31, 2013 and depending on the laws in each state, health insurers were allowed to consider factors such as health status, gender and age in determining the appropriate premium for products in the Individual and Small Group markets. Some states have adopted rules that limit the variation between the highest and lowest premium for the identical insurance policy. The differential in pricing is commonly referred to as “rating bands”. The process of using these rating bands allowed health insurers to appropriately price for products and to spread the risk more broadly across all policyholders. Except for policies issued under the CMS transitional policies, beginning in 2014, the ACA precludes health insurers from using health status and gender in the determination of the appropriate insurance premium. In addition, rating bands for age cannot vary by more than 3 to 1 and the rating



-20-





bands for tobacco use cannot vary by more than 1.5 to 1. The ongoing use of the 3 to 1 rating bands may have a significant impact on the majority of Individual and Small Group customers and could lead to adverse selection in the market as well as increased variability in projecting future premiums for those customer markets.

•In 2014 significant new taxes and fees became effective for health insurers, some of which may or may not be passed through to customers. The most significant of the taxes and fees is theannual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee,on health insurers that write certain types of health insurance on U.S. risks. The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health insurers based on the ratio of the amount of an insurer's net premium revenues written during the preceding calendar year to an adjusted amount of health insurance for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines of business written during the preceding calendar year. The HIP Fee is non-deductible for federal income tax purposes. The total amount to be collected from allocations to health insurers in 2014 was$8.0 billion, and our portion of the HIP Fee for 2014 was$893.3 million. The final calculation and payment of the HIP Fee occurred in the third quarter of 2014and was recognized as a general and administrative expense. The annual HIP Fee to be allocated to all health insurers increases to$11.3 billionfor 2015 and 2016,$13.9 billionfor 2017 and$14.3 billionfor 2018. For 2019 and beyond, the annual HIP Fee will increase from the amount for the preceding year by the rate of premium growth for the preceding year.

•Medicare Advantage reimbursement rates will not increase as much as they would otherwise due to a new payment formula promulgated by the ACA that is expected to significantly reduce reimbursements in the future. We also expect further and ongoing regulatory guidance on a number of issues related to Medicare, evolving methodology for ratings and quality bonus payments, and potential action on an audit methodology to review data submitted under “risk adjuster” programs.

In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision affirming that the majority of the provisions of the ACA were constitutional. However, the provision of the ACA related to the mandatory expansion of state Medicaid programs was declared unconstitutional. One case pertaining to the constitutionality of the contraceptive mandate was decided by the U.S. Supreme Court during the past year, in which the Supreme Court held that closely-held for-profit businesses are entitled to object to the contraceptive mandate. Another pending case pertains to challenges to the premium tax subsidies and whether the subsidies are available for eligible residents in all states or only those residents in states which have established state-based public exchanges.

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act became law in 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a far-reaching overhaul of the framework for the U.S. financial services industry. Even though we are primarily a health benefits company, our business has been impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act. Many of its provisions require the adoption of rules for implementation, including those that govern which non-bank financial companies may become subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. These non-bank financial companies are defined as those that could pose a threat to the economy’s financial stability either due to the potential of material financial distress at the company or due to the company’s ongoing activities. While we are not currently considered a non-bank financial company for purposes of Federal Reserve oversight, future regulations or interpretations could change that result. Further, our investments in derivative instruments became subject to rules regarding the reporting and clearing of transactions and new margin requirements.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a Federal Insurance Office, with limited powers that include information-gathering and subpoena authority. Although the Federal Insurance Office does not have authority over health insurance, it may have authority over other parts of our business, such as life insurance.

HIPAA and Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act

The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes obligations for issuers of health insurance coverage and health benefit plan sponsors. This law requires guaranteed renewability of health care coverage for most group health plans and certain individuals. Also, the law limited exclusions based on preexisting medical conditions.

The administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA imposed a number of requirements on covered entities (including insurers, HMOs, group health plans, providers and clearinghouses). These requirements include uniform standards of common electronic health care transactions; privacy and security regulations; and unique identifier rules for employers,



-21-





health plans and providers. Additional federal privacy and security requirements, including breach notification, improved enforcement and additional limitations on use and disclosure of protected health information were passed through the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH, Act provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and corresponding implementing regulations. CMS posted the Interim Final Rule with Comment, or IFC, adopting operating rules for two electronic transactions: eligibility for a health plan and health care claims status. Based on the comments received on the IFC, CMS has decided not to change any of the policies established in the rule. Thus, the interim final rule became the final rule. The rule had a January 1, 2013 compliance date and we believe we have effectively complied with the requirements of the rule.

The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally places restrictions on the disclosure of non-public information to non-affiliated third parties, and requires financial institutions, including insurers, to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal information is used, including an opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures. State departments of insurance and certain federal agencies adopted implementing regulations as required by federal law. In addition, a number of states have adopted data security laws and/or regulations, regulating data security and/or requiring security breach notification, which may apply to us in certain circumstances.

Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974

The provision of services to certain employee welfare benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, a complex set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation and enforcement by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Labor. ERISA regulates certain aspects of the relationships between us, the employers that maintain employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Some of our administrative services and other activities may also be subject to regulation under ERISA. In addition, certain states require licensure or registration of companies providing third party claims administration services for benefit plans. We provide a variety of products and services to employee welfare benefit plans that are covered by ERISA. Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws and the question of whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law has been, and will continue to be, interpreted by many courts.

HMO and Insurance Holding Company Laws, including Risk-Based Capital Requirements

We are regulated as an insurance holding company and are subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company and HMO subsidiaries are domiciled. These acts contain certain reporting requirements as well as restrictions on transactions between an insurer or HMO and its affiliates. These holding company laws and regulations generally require insurance companies and HMOs within an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of each state where they are domiciled and to file with those states’ insurance departments certain reports describing capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. In addition, various notice and reporting requirements generally apply to transactions between insurance companies and HMOs and their affiliates within an insurance holding company system, depending on the size and nature of the transactions. Some insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval or, in certain circumstances, prior notice of certain material intercompany transfers of assets as well as certain transactions between insurance companies, HMOs, their parent holding companies and affiliates. Among other provisions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.

Additionally, the holding company acts of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of an insurance holding company, which controls an insurance company or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance holding company. “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person.

The states of domicile of our regulated subsidiaries have statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other insurance companies and HMOs based on the RBC Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to assess the capital adequacy of life and health insurers and HMOs, taking into account the risk characteristics of a company’s investments and products. In general, under these laws, an insurance company or HMO must submit a report of its RBC level to the insurance department or insurance commissioner of its state of domicile for each calendar year. The law requires



-22-





increasing degrees of regulatory oversight and intervention as a company’s RBC declines. As ofDecember 31, 2014, the RBC levels of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries exceeded all RBC thresholds.

Guaranty Fund Assessments

Under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for amounts paid by guaranty funds for policyholder losses incurred when an insurance company becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty association laws currently provide for assessments based upon the amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within such state (with a minimum amount payable even if no premium is received). Under many of these guaranty association laws, assessments against insurance companies that issue policies of accident or sickness insurance are made retrospectively. Some states permit insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets or through future policyholder assessments.

States’ adoption of the revised NAIC Model Guaranty Fund Act will tend to decrease our liability for insolvent insurers. The revised act reduces the premium base on which assessments are calculated, by omitting Medicare Parts C and D premium from the assessment base.

While the amount and timing of any future assessments cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that future guaranty association assessments for insurer insolvencies will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources with the exception of potential exposure related to the Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Company and its subsidiary American Network Insurance Company insolvency as discussed in Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies”, to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

AtDecember 31, 2014, we had approximately 51,500 employees. Our employees are an important asset, and we seek to develop them to their full potential. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.

Available Information

We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website is

www.antheminc.com

. We have included our Internet website address throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K as textual reference only. The information contained on our Internet website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, by mail or through our Internet website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. We also include on our Internet website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct and the charter of each standing committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana corporation incorporated on July 17, 2001.



