ITEM 1. BUSINESS.



General



We are the largest health benefits company in terms of medical membership in the United States, serving 33.7 million medical members as
of December 31, 2009. We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue
Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for: Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as BCBS in 10 New York city metropolitan and
surrounding counties, and as Blue Cross or BCBS in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.), and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas we do business as Anthem Blue
Cross, Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield (in our New York service areas). We also serve our members throughout much of the country as UniCare. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states through our
subsidiaries.



Our mission is to improve the lives
of the people we serve and the health of our communities. Our strategy is to simplify the connection between health, care and value. We strive to achieve our mission and strategy by creating the best health care value in our industry, excelling at
day-to-day execution, and capitalizing on new opportunities to drive growth.



We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to the large and small employer, individual, Medicaid and senior markets. Our managed care plans include: preferred provider organizations, or
PPOs; health maintenance organizations, or HMOs; point-of-service plans, or POS plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including consumer-driven health plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only and limited benefit products. In addition,
we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs
and other administrative services. We also provide an array of specialty and other products and services including life and disability insurance benefits, dental, vision, behavioral health benefit services, radiology benefit management,
analytics-driven personal health care guidance, long-term care insurance and flexible spending accounts.



For our fully-insured products, we charge a premium and assume all of the health care risk. Under self-funded and partially-insured products,
we charge a fee for services, and the employer or plan sponsor reimburses us for all or most of the health care costs. Approximately 93% of our 2009 operating revenue was derived from premium income, while approximately 7% was derived from
administrative fees and other revenues.



Through
December 31, 2009, our medical membership customer base primarily included Local Group (including UniCare) (those with less than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state, as well as customers with more than 5% of
eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state with up to 2,500 eligible employees, accounting for 47% of our medical members at December 31, 2009) and Individuals under age 65 (including UniCare) and their covered dependents (6%
of our medical members as of December 31, 2009). Other major customer types included National Accounts (generally multi-state employer groups primarily headquartered in a WellPoint service area with at least 5% of the eligible employees located
outside of the headquarter state and with more than 2,500 eligible employees, accounting for 20% of our medical members at December 31, 2009), BlueCard Host (enrollees of Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield plans not owned by WellPoint who receive
health care services in our BCBSA licensed markets, accounting for 14% of our medical members at December 31, 2009), Senior (Medicare-eligible individual members age 65 and over who have enrolled in Medicare Advantage, a managed care
alternative for the Medicare program, or who have purchased Medicare Supplement benefit coverage, accounting for 4% of our medical members at December 31, 2009), State- Sponsored Programs (primarily state-sponsored managed care alternatives in
Medicaid and State Children’s







Health Insurance programs, accounting for 5% of our medical members at December 31, 2009) and the Federal Employee Program, or FEP (United States government employees and covered family
members, accounting for 4% of our medical members at December 31, 2009).



We market our products through an extensive network of independent agents and brokers for Individual and Senior customers, as well as certain Local Group customers with a smaller employee base. Products
for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer and working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force.



The aging of the population and other demographic
characteristics and advances in medical technology continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit plans
by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality initiatives and financial incentives. Our leading market share and high business retention rates enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive
and early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of
acquired businesses.



Our results of operations
depend in large part on accurately predicting health care costs and our ability to manage future health care costs through adequate product pricing, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts.



Our future results of operations may also be impacted by certain
external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. During 2009, the U.S. Congress proposed several new pieces of legislation aimed at reforming the U.S. health care system. None of these proposals have yet been enacted;
however, certain of the provisions could have a material adverse effect on our business model and results of operations. For additional discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Form 10-K.



In addition to external forces discussed in the preceding
paragraph, our results of operations are impacted by levels and mix of membership. During 2009, we experienced membership declines due to current economic conditions. We expect unemployment levels will remain high throughout 2010, which may impact
our ability to increase or maintain current membership levels. These membership trends could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. For additional discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in of this Form 10-K.



We believe health care is local and feel that we
have the strong local presence required to understand and meet local customer needs. We believe we are well-positioned to deliver what customers want: innovative, choice-based products; distinctive service; simplified transactions; and better access
to information for quality care. Our local presence and national expertise have created opportunities for collaborative programs that reward physicians and hospitals for clinical quality and excellence. We feel that our commitment to health
improvement and care management provides added value to customers and health care professionals.



In January 2007, we unveiled a comprehensive plan to help address the growing ranks of the uninsured. Our plan is a blend of public and
private initiatives aimed at ensuring universal coverage for children and providing new and more attractive options for the uninsured. This plan is part of our mission to improve the lives of the people we serve and the health of our communities. In
furtherance of our plan, we have launched an interactive website for the uninsured and opened community resource centers to assist the uninsured to obtain health insurance coverage.



We believe that an essential ingredient for practical and sustainable health care reform is improving quality,
which can help manage costs. We have identified solutions that we believe will deliver better health care while reducing costs. These include promoting evidence-based medicine and determining real-world outcomes;







advancing health care quality by disseminating information throughout the system; focusing on prevention and managing chronic illness; improving effective use of drug therapies to prevent and
manage illness; promoting strategies to reduce medical errors and adverse drug events; reducing costs through eliminating fraud; reducing costs related to litigation; and improving administration.



We continue to expand360º Health, the
industry’s first program to integrate all aspects of care management into a centralized, consumer-friendly resource that assists patients in navigating the health care system, using their health benefits and accessing the most comprehensive and
appropriate care available.



In addition, we
continue to supplement interactions with customers, brokers, agents, employees and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology and enhancing internal operations. We continue to develop our e-business strategy with the goal of becoming widely
regarded as an e-business leader in the health benefits industry. The strategy includes not only sales and distribution of health benefits products on the Internet, but also implementation of advanced capabilities that improve service benefiting
customers, agents, brokers, and providers while optimizing administrative costs. These enhancements will also help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care through increased communications between patients and their physicians.



We intend to continue our expansion and will
focus on earnings per share, or EPS, growth through organic membership gains, strategic acquisitions and capital transactions, while pursuing our mission to improve the lives of the people we serve and the health of our communities.



We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished
to the SEC. Our Internet website iswww.wellpoint.com.We make available, free of charge or through our Internet website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. We also include on our Internet website our Corporate
Governance Guidelines, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct and the charter of each standing committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Standards of
Ethical Business Conduct that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. WellPoint, Inc. is an Indiana corporation incorporated on July 17, 2001.



Significant Events



Listed below are the more significant events that have occurred
over the last five years:





•











•On December 1, 2009, we sold our prescription benefits management, or PBM, business to Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, and received
$4.7 billion in cash. The pre-tax and after-tax gains on the sale were $3.8 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively. During the first quarter of 2010, we will make tax payments of approximately $1.2 billion relating to the PBM sale. We also entered
into a 10-year contract for Express Scripts to provide PBM services to our members. We expect this alliance to provide our members with more cost effective solutions as well as access to state-of-the-art PBM services. The results of operations of
our PBM business have been included in our consolidated results through November 30, 2009.



•On October 28, 2009, we announced that we entered into a member transition agreement with Health Care Service Corporation, or HCSC, which operates
as Blue Cross and Blue Shield in Illinois and Texas. Under this agreement, HCSC will offer guaranteed replacement coverage to our UniCare commercial group and individual members in those states. Starting on January 1, 2010, certain of our
membership began transitioning to HCSC as a result of this agreement. The member transition agreement did not have a material effect on our consolidated cash flows, financial condition or results of operations.



•On April 9, 2009, we completed our acquisition of DeCare Dental, LLC, or DeCare, a wholly-owned subsidiary of DeCare International. DeCare is
one of the country’s largest administrators of dental benefit plans and provides services directly and through partnerships and administrative agreements with ten dental insurance brands, primarily as a third party administrator. DeCare manages
benefits for over four million people and is expected to provide our customers with innovative dental products and enhanced customer service.



•During 2008 and 2009, we worked with The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, to resolve issues identified as a result of our internal
compliance audits and findings from a 2008 CMS audit. Our work included detailed action plans to remediate such findings. In addition, we engaged an independent third party to provide CMS with on-going assessments regarding our compliance, including
verification of systems, processes and procedures.



On January 12, 2009, CMS notified us that we were suspended from marketing to and enrolling new members in our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D health benefit products until remediation efforts
had been fully implemented and confirmed. On September 9, 2009, CMS notified us that the sanctions had been lifted. We began marketing our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D products on October 1, 2009 and began enrolling new members
on November 15, 2009 for the 2010 contract year. However, we are not currently eligible to receive auto-enrollment or reassignment of Medicare Part D Low Income Subsidy, or LIS, beneficiaries. We continue to work with CMS to demonstrate that
our operations related to the Medicare Part D LIS programs have been corrected so that we will again be allowed to participate in the Medicare Part D LIS auto-assignment process.



•During the year ended December 31, 2008, we settled disputes with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, relating to certain tax years and industry
issues which we had been discussing with the IRS for several years. As a result of the settlements, we recorded additional tax benefits that had previously been denied by the IRS. In addition, tax litigation in the U.S. Tax Court concluded adversely
to us during 2008. The case has been appealed to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals and oral arguments are scheduled for February 2010.



•On August 1, 2007, we completed our acquisition of Imaging Management Holdings, LLC, whose sole business is the holding company parent of American
Imaging Management, Inc., or AIM. AIM is a leading radiology benefit management and technology company and provides services to us as well as other customers nationwide, including several other Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensees. The acquisition
supports our strategy to become the leader in affordable quality care by incorporating AIM’s services and technology for more effective and efficient use of radiology services by our members. The purchase price for the acquisition was
approximately $300.0 million in cash.







•On December 28, 2005 (December 31, 2005 for accounting purposes) we completed our acquisition of WellChoice, Inc., or WellChoice. Under the terms
of the merger agreement, the stockholders of WellChoice received consideration of $38.25 in cash and 0.5191 of a share of WellPoint common stock for each share of WellChoice common stock outstanding. In addition, WellChoice stock options and other
awards were converted to WellPoint awards in accordance with the merger agreement. The purchase price including cash, fair value of stock and stock awards and estimated transaction costs was approximately $6.5 billion. WellChoice merged with
and into WellPoint Holding Corp., a direct and wholly-owned subsidiary of WellPoint, with WellPoint Holding Corp. as the surviving entity in the merger.



•On July 11, 2005, we announced that an agreement was reached with representatives of more than 700,000 physicians nationwide involved in two
multi-district class-action lawsuits against us and other health benefits companies. As part of the agreement, we agreed to pay $135.0 million to physicians and to contribute $5.0 million to a not-for-profit foundation whose mission is to
promote higher quality health care and to enhance the delivery of care to the disadvantaged and underserved. In addition, we paid $61.3 million in legal fees, including interest, on October 6, 2007. As a result of the agreement, we incurred a
pre-tax expense of $103.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, which represented the final settlement amount of the agreement that was not previously accrued. Appeals of the settlement initially filed by certain physicians have been
resolved. Final cash payments under the agreement totaling $209.5 million, including accrued interest, were made on October 5 and 6, 2006.



•On June 9, 2005, we completed our acquisition of Lumenos, Inc., or Lumenos, for approximately $185.0 million in cash paid to the stockholders of
Lumenos. Lumenos was recognized as a pioneer and market leader in consumer-driven health programs.



•On April 25, 2005, our Board of Directors approved a two-for-one split of shares of common stock, which was effected in the form of a 100% common
stock dividend. All shareholders of record on May 13, 2005 received one additional share of WellPoint common stock for each share of common stock held on that date. The additional shares of common stock were distributed to shareholders of
record in the form of a stock dividend on May 31, 2005. All applicable historical weighted average share and per share amounts and all references to stock compensation data and market prices of our common stock for all periods presented in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K have been adjusted to reflect this two-for-one stock split.



Industry Overview









Recently, economic factors and greater consumer awareness have resulted in the increasing
popularity of products that offer larger, more extensive networks, more member choice related to coverage, physicians and hospitals, and a desire for greater flexibility for customers to assume larger deductibles and co-payments in return for lower
premiums. CDHPs, which are relatively high deductible PPO products and which are often paired with some type of member health care expenditure account that can be used at the member’s discretion to help fund member out-of-pocket costs, help to
meet this demand. CDHPs also usually incorporate member education, wellness, and care management programs, to help customers make better informed health care decisions. We believe we are well-positioned in each of our regions to respond to these
market preferences.



Each of
the BCBS companies, of which there were 39 independent primary licensees as of December 31, 2009, works cooperatively in a number of ways that create significant market advantages, especially when competing for very large multi-state employer
groups. As a result of this cooperation, each BCBS company is able to take advantage of other BCBS licensees’ substantial provider networks and discounts when any BCBS member works or travels outside of the state in which their policy is
written. This program is referred to as BlueCard®, and is a source of revenue for providing member services in
our states for individuals who are customers of BCBS plans not affiliated with us.



Competition



The managed care industry is highly competitive, both nationally and in our regional markets. Competition continues to be intense due to aggressive marketing, business consolidations, a proliferation of
new products and increased quality awareness and price sensitivity among customers.



Health benefits industry participants compete for customers mainly on the following factors:



•quality of service;



•access to provider networks;



•access to care management and wellness programs, including health information;



•innovation, breadth and flexibility of products and benefits;



•reputation (including National Committee on Quality Assurance, or NCQA, accreditation status);



•brand recognition;



•price; and



•financial stability.



Over the last few years, a health plan’s ability to interact with employers, members and other third parties (including health care
professionals) via the Internet has become a more important competitive factor. During the last several years, we have made significant investments in technology to enhance our electronic interaction with providers, employers, members and third
parties.



We believe our exclusive right to market
products under the most recognized brand in the industry, BCBS, in our most significant markets provides us with an advantage over our competition. In addition, our provider networks in our regions enable us to achieve cost-efficiencies and service
levels enabling us to offer a broad range of health benefits to our customers on a more cost-effective basis than many of our competitors. We strive to distinguish our products through provider access, service, care management, product value and
brand recognition.



To build our provider
networks, we compete with other health benefits plans for the best contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers. We believe that physicians and other providers primarily consider member volume, reimbursement rates, timeliness of
reimbursement and administrative service capabilities along with the reduction of non-value added administrative tasks when deciding whether to contract with a health benefits plan.







At the sales and distribution level, we compete for qualified agents and brokers to
recommend and distribute our products. Strong competition exists among insurance companies and health benefits plans for agents and brokers with demonstrated ability to secure new business and maintain existing accounts. We believe that quality and
price of our products, support services, reputation and prior relationships, along with a reasonable commission structure are the factors agents and brokers consider in choosing whether to market our products. We believe that we have good
relationships with our agents and brokers, and that our products, support services and commission structure compare favorably to our competitors in all of our regions. Typically we are the lead competitor in each of our markets and thus a closely
watched target by other insurance competitors.



Reportable
Segments



We manage our operations through
three reportable segments: Commercial, Consumer, and Other. Segment disclosures for 2007 have been reclassified to conform to the 2009 and 2008 presentation.



Our Commercial and Consumer segments both offer a diversified mix of managed care products, including PPOs, HMOs, traditional indemnity
benefits and POS plans, as well as a variety of hybrid benefit plans including CDHPs, hospital only and limited benefit products.



Our Commercial segment includes Local Group (including UniCare), National Accounts and certain other ancillary business operations (dental,
vision, life and disability and workers’ compensation). Business units in the Commercial segment offer fully-insured products and provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing,
underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services.



Our Consumer segment includes Senior, State-Sponsored and Individual businesses. Senior business includes
services such as Medicare Part D, Medicare Advantage, and Medicare Supplement, while State-Sponsored business includes our managed care alternatives for the Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Plan programs.



Our Other segment includes the Comprehensive Health Solutions
Business unit, or CHS, that brings together our resources focused on optimizing the quality of health care and cost of care management. CHS included our PBM business until its sale to Express Scripts on December 1, 2009, and also includes
provider relations, care and disease management, employee assistance programs, including behavioral health, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal health care guidance. Our Other segment also includes results from our Federal
Government Solutions, or FGS, business. FGS business includes the Federal Employee Program, or FEP, and National Government Services, Inc., or NGS, which acts as a Medicare contractor in several regions across the nation. The Other segment also
includes other businesses that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for an operating segment as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, segment reporting guidance, as well as intersegment sales and expense eliminations and
corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments.



For additional information regarding the operating results of our segments, see the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 19 to our audited
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, included in this Form 10-K.



Products and Services



A general description of our products and services is provided below:



Preferred Provider Organization.PPO products offer the member an option to
select any health care provider, with benefits reimbursed by us at a higher level when care is received from a participating network provider. Coverage is subject to co-payments or deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually
limited by out-of-pocket maximums.







Consumer-Driven Health Plans.CDHPs provide consumers with
increased financial responsibility, choice and control regarding how their health care dollars are spent. Generally, CDHPs combine a high-deductible PPO plan with an employer-funded and/or employee-funded personal care account, which may result in
tax benefits to the employee. Some or all of the dollars remaining in the personal care account at year-end can be rolled over to the next year for future health care needs.



Traditional Indemnity.Indemnity products offer the member an option to select
any health care provider for covered services. Coverage is subject to deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.



Health Maintenance Organization.HMO products include comprehensive managed care
benefits, generally through a participating network of physicians, hospitals and other providers. A member in one of our HMOs must typically select a primary care physician, or PCP, from our network. PCPs generally are family practitioners,
internists or pediatricians who provide necessary preventive and primary medical care, and are generally responsible for coordinating other necessary health care services. We offer HMO plans with varying levels of co-payments, which result in
different levels of premium rates.



Point-of-Service.POS products blend the characteristics of HMO, PPO and indemnity plans. Members can have comprehensive HMO-style benefits through participating network providers with minimum out-of-pocket
expenses (co-payments) and also can go directly, without a referral, to any provider they choose, subject to, among other things, certain deductibles and coinsurance. Member cost sharing is limited by out-of-pocket maximums.



Administrative Services.In
addition to fully-insured products, we provide administrative services to large group employers that maintain self-funded health plans. These administrative services include underwriting, actuarial services, medical management, claims processing and
other administrative services for self-funded employers. Self-funded health plans are also able to use our provider networks and to realize savings through our negotiated provider arrangements, while allowing employers the ability to design certain
health benefit plans in accordance with their own requirements and objectives. We also underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans.



BlueCard.BlueCard host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which a WellPoint
subsidiary is the Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer sponsored health plan serviced by a non-WellPoint controlled BCBS licensee, who is the “home” plan. We perform certain administrative functions
for BlueCard host members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard members’ home plans. Other administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan.



Senior Plans.We
offer a wide variety of senior plans, products and options such as Medicare supplement plans, Medicare Advantage (including private fee-for-service plans) and Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans, or Medicare Part D. Medicare supplement plans
typically pay the difference between health care costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a
Medicare Part D benefit. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and dual eligible (Medicare and Medicaid) beneficiaries. In September 2005, we were awarded contracts to offer Medicare Part D to eligible Medicare beneficiaries in
all 50 states. We began offering these plans to customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country. We served as the exclusive point of sale facilitated enrollment provider as defined by CMS for 2009, 2008 and 2007. On
January 12, 2009, CMS notified us that we were suspended from marketing to and enrolling new members in our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D health benefit products until remediation efforts had been fully implemented and confirmed. On
September 9, 2009, CMS notified us that the sanctions had been lifted. We began marketing our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D products on October 1, 2009 and began enrolling new members on November 15, 2009 for the 2010
contract year. However,







we are not currently eligible to receive auto-enrollment or reassignment of Medicare Part D Low Income Subsidy, or LIS, beneficiaries. We continue to work with CMS to demonstrate that our
operations related to the Medicare Part D LIS programs have been corrected so that we will again be allowed to participate in the Medicare Part D LIS auto-assignment process.



Individual Plans.We offer a full range of health insurance plans
with a variety of options and deductibles for individuals under age 65 who are not covered by employer-sponsored coverage. Some of our products target certain demographic populations such as the uninsured, “young invincibles,” (individuals
between the ages of 19 and 29), families and those transitioning between jobs or early retirees.



Medicaid Plans and Other State-Sponsored Programs.We have contracts to serve members enrolled in Medicaid,
State Children’s Health Insurance programs and other publicly funded health care programs for low income and/or high medical risk individuals. We provide services in California, Indiana, Kansas, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, South
Carolina, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia and Wisconsin.



Pharmacy Products.Until December 1, 2009, we offered pharmacy and PBM services directly to our members through our PBM subsidiaries. Subsequent to the December 1, 2009 sale of our PBM subsidiaries,
these services are now managed for us by Express Scripts under our ten-year contract. Pharmacy services incorporate features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy network and maintenance of a prescription drug database and mail order capabilities.
PBM services include management of drug utilization through outpatient prescription drug formularies, retrospective review and drug education for physicians, pharmacists and members. Two of our PBM subsidiaries were licensed pharmacies and made
prescription dispensing services available through mail order for PBM clients. Our PBM companies also included Precision Rx Specialty Solutions, a full service specialty pharmacy designed to help improve quality and cost of care by coordinating a
relatively new class of prescription medications commonly referred to as biopharmaceuticals, also known as specialty medications.



Life Insurance.We offer an array of competitive individual and group life insurance benefit products to both
large and small group customers in conjunction with our health plans. The life products include term life and accidental death and dismemberment.



Disability.We offer short-term and long-term disability programs, usually in conjunction with our health
plans.



Behavioral
Health.We offer specialized behavioral health plans and benefit management. These plans cover mental health and substance abuse treatment services on both an inpatient and an outpatient basis. We have implemented employee
assistance and behavioral managed care programs for a wide variety of businesses throughout the United States. These programs are offered through our subsidiaries.



Radiology Benefit Management.We offer outpatient diagnostic imaging management
services to health plans. These services include utilization management for advanced diagnostic imaging procedures, network development and optimization, patient safety, claims adjudication and provider payment.



Personal Health Care Guidance.We
offer leading analytics-driven personal health care guidance. These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs.



Dental.Our dental plans include
networks in certain states in which we operate. Many of the dental benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both an insured and self-funded basis. Additionally, we offer managed dental services to other
health care plans to assist those other health care plans in providing dental benefits to their customers.



Vision Services.Our vision plans include networks within the states we operate. Many of the vision benefits
are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both an insured and self-funded basis.







Long-Term Care Insurance.We offer long-term care insurance
products to our California members through a subsidiary. The long-term care products include tax-qualified and non-tax qualified versions of a skilled nursing home care plan and comprehensive policies covering skilled, intermediate and custodial
long-term care and home health services.



Medicare Administrative Operations.



Customer Types



Our products are generally developed and marketed with an emphasis on the differing needs of our various customers. In particular, our
product development and marketing efforts take into account the differing characteristics between the various customers served by us, including individuals, employers, seniors and Medicaid recipients, as well as the unique needs of educational and
public entities, labor groups, federal employee health and benefit programs, national employers and state-run programs servicing low-income, high-risk and under-served markets. Each business unit is responsible for product design, pricing,
enrolling, underwriting and servicing customers in specific customer types. We believe that one of the keys to our success has been our focus on distinct customer types, which better enables us to develop benefit plans and services that meet our
customers’ unique needs.



Overall, we seek to
establish pricing and product designs to achieve an appropriate level of profitability for each of our customer categories balanced with competitive objectives. Our customer definitions were revised in the first quarter of 2008 in accordance with
our new organizational structure. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the 2009 and 2008 presentation. As of December 31, 2009, our medical membership customer types included the following categories:



•Local Group consists of those employer customers with less than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state, as well as customers
with more than 5% of eligible employees located outside of the headquarter state with up to 2,500 eligible employees. In addition, Local Group includes UniCare local group members. These groups are generally sold through brokers or consultants
working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force. Local Group insurance premiums may be based on claims incurred by the group or sold on a self-insured basis. The customer’s buying decision is typically based upon the size and
breadth of our networks, customer service, the quality of our medical management services, the administrative cost included in our quoted price, our financial stability, reputation and our ability to effectively service large complex accounts. Local
Group accounted for 47% of our medical members at December 31, 2009.



•Individual consists of individual customers under age 65 (including UniCare) and their covered dependents. Individual policies are generally sold
through independent agents and brokers, our in-house sales force or via the Internet. Individual business is sold on a fully-insured basis and is usually







medically underwritten at the point of initial issuance. Individual customers are generally more sensitive to product pricing and, to a lesser extent, the configuration of the network, and the
efficiency of administration. Account turnover is generally higher with Individual as compared to Local Groups. Individual business accounted for 6% of our medical members at December 31, 2009.



•National Accounts generally consist of multi-state employer groups primarily headquartered in a WellPoint service area with at least 5% of the eligible
employees located outside of the headquarter state and with more than 2,500 eligible employees. Some exceptions are allowed based on broker relationships. Service area is defined as the geographic area in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products.
National Accounts are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer working with our in-house sales force. We have a significant advantage when competing for very large National Accounts due to the size and
breadth of our networks and our ability to access the national provider networks of BCBS companies and take advantage of their provider discounts in their local markets. National Accounts represented 20% of our medical members at December 31,
2009.



•BlueCard host customers represent enrollees of Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield plans not owned by WellPoint who receive health care services in our BCBSA
licensed markets. BlueCard membership consists of estimated host members using the national BlueCard program. Host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which a WellPoint subsidiary is the Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield
licensee and who are covered under an employer-sponsored health plan issued by a non-WellPoint controlled BCBSA licensee (i.e., the “home plan”). We perform certain administrative functions for BlueCard members, for which we receive
administrative fees from the BlueCard members’ home plans. Other administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan. Host members are computed using, among other
things, the average number of BlueCard claims received per month. BlueCard host membership accounted for 14% of our medical members at December 31, 2009.



•Senior customers are Medicare-eligible individual members age 65 and over who have enrolled in Medicare Advantage, a managed care alternative for the
Medicare program, or who have purchased Medicare Supplement benefit coverage. Medicare Supplement policies are sold to Medicare recipients as supplements to the benefits they receive from the Medicare program. Rates are filed with and in some cases
approved by state insurance departments. Most of the premium for Medicare Advantage is paid directly by the Federal government on behalf of the participant who may also be charged a small premium. Medicare Supplement and Medicare Advantage products
are marketed in the same manner, primarily through independent agents and brokers. Senior business accounted for 4% of our medical members at December 31, 2009.



•State-Sponsored membership represents eligible members with State-Sponsored managed care alternatives in Medicaid and State Children’s Health
Insurance Plan programs. Total State-Sponsored program business accounted for 5% of our medical members at December 31, 2009.



•FEP members consist of United States government employees and their dependents within our geographic markets through our participation in the national
contract between the BCBSA and the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. FEP business accounted for 4% of our medical members at December 31, 2009.



In addition to reporting our medical membership by customer type, we report by funding arrangement according to the level of
risk that we assume in the product contract. Our two principal funding arrangement categories are fully-insured and self-funded. Fully-insured products are products in which we indemnify our policyholders against costs for health benefits.
Self-funded products are offered to customers, generally larger employers, who elect to retain most or all of the financial risk associated with their employees’ health care costs. Some self-funded customers choose to purchase stop-loss
coverage to limit their retained risk.







The following tables set forth our medical membership by customer type and funding
arrangement:



December 3120092008(In thousands)Customer Type:Local Group15,64316,632Individual2,1312,272National:National Accounts6,8136,720BlueCard4,7444,736Total National11,55711,456Senior1,2151,304State-Sponsored1,7331,992FEP1,3911,393Total medical membership by customer type33,67035,049Funding Arrangement:Self-Funded18,23618,520Fully-Insured15,43416,529Total medical membership by funding arrangement33,67035,049



For additional information regarding the change in medical membership between years, see the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this
Form 10-K.



In addition to the above medical
membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business. Examples of these other products or services include life, disease management and wellness, personal
health care guidance, radiology benefit management, vision, and dental. We also provide some of these other products to unaffiliated BCBS or other health plans which contract with us for certain services.



Networks and Provider Relations



Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and professionals
that provide health care services to our members are guided by regional and national standards for network development, reimbursement and contract methodologies.



We attempt to provide market-based hospital reimbursement along industry standards. We also seek to ensure that
physicians in our network are paid in a timely manner at appropriate rates. We use multi-year contracting strategies, including case or fixed rates, to limit our exposure to medical cost inflation and increase cost predictability. We seek to
maintain broad provider networks to ensure member choice, based on both price and access needs, while implementing programs designed to improve the quality of care received by our members.



It is generally our philosophy not to delegate full financial
responsibility to our physician providers in the form of capitation-based reimbursement. However, in certain markets we believe capitation can be a useful method to lower costs and reduce underwriting risk, and we therefore have some capitation
contracts.



Depending on the consolidation and
integration of physician groups and hospitals, reimbursement strategies vary across markets. Fee-for-service is our predominant reimbursement methodology for physicians. Physician fee schedules are developed at the state level based on an assessment
of several factors and conditions, including







CMS resource-based relative value system, or RBRVS, changes, medical practice cost inflation and physician supply. We utilize CMS RBRVS fee schedules as a reference point for fee schedule
development and analysis. The RBRVS structure was developed and is maintained by CMS, and is used by the Medicare program and other major payers. In addition, we have implemented and continue to expand physician incentive contracting, which
recognizes clinical quality and performance as a basis for reimbursement.



Our hospital contracts provide for a variety of reimbursement arrangements depending on local market dynamics and current hospital utilization efficiency. Most hospitals are reimbursed a fixed amount per
day or per case for inpatient covered services. Some hospitals, primarily sole community hospitals, are reimbursed on a discount from approved charge basis for covered services. Our “per case” reimbursement methods utilize many of the same
attributes contained in Medicare’s Diagnosis Related Groups, or DRG, methodology. Hospital outpatient services are reimbursed by fixed case rates, fee schedules or percent of approved charges. Our hospital contracts recognize unique hospital
attributes, such as academic medical centers or community hospitals, and the volume of care performed for our members. To improve predictability of expected cost, we frequently use a multi-year contracting approach and have been transitioning to
case rate payment methodologies. Many of our hospital contracts have reimbursement linked to improved clinical performance, patient safety and medical error reduction.



Medical Management Programs



Our medical management programs include a broad array of activities that facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our
members and promote cost effective medical care. These medical management activities and programs are administered and directed by physicians and trained nurses. One of the goals of our medical management strategies is to ensure that the care
delivered to our members is supported by appropriate medical and scientific evidence.



Precertification.A traditional medical management program involves assessment of the appropriateness of certain hospitalizations and other medical services prior to the
service being rendered. For example, precertification is used to determine whether a set of hospital and medical services is being appropriately applied to the member’s clinical condition, in accordance with criteria for medical necessity as
that term is defined in the member’s benefits contract. Most of our health plans have implemented precertification programs for certain high cost radiology studies, addressing an area of historically significant cost trends. As previously
described in Significant Transactions, on August 1, 2007, we completed our acquisition of AIM. We continue to incorporate AIM’s services and technology for more effective and efficient use of diagnostic imaging services by our members.



Concurrent
review.Another traditional medical management strategy we use is concurrent review, which is based on nationally recognized criteria developed by third-party medical specialists. With concurrent review, the requirements
and intensity of services during a patient’s hospital stay are reviewed, at times by an onsite skilled nurse professional in collaboration with the hospital’s medical and nursing staff, in order to coordinate care and determine the most
effective transition of care from the hospital setting.



Formulary management.We have developed formularies, which are selections of drugs based on clinical quality and effectiveness. A pharmacy and therapeutics committee of physicians uses scientific and clinical
evidence to ensure that our members have access to the appropriate drug therapies. This function remained with us after the sale of our PBM business.



Medical policy.A medical policy group comprised of physician leaders from various areas of the country,
working in cooperation with academic medical centers, practicing community physicians and medical specialty organizations such as the American College of Radiology and national organizations such as the Centers for Disease Control and the American
Cancer Society, determines our national policy for the application of new medical technologies and treatments.







Quality programs.We are actively engaged with our hospital
and physician networks to enable them to improve medical and surgical care and achieve better outcomes for our members. We endorse, encourage and incent hospitals and physicians to support national initiatives to improve the quality of clinical
care, patient outcomes and to reduce medication errors and hospital infections. We have demonstrated our leadership in developing hospital quality programs.



External review procedures.We work with outside experts through a process of external review to provide our
members scientifically and clinically, evidenced-based medical care. When we receive member concerns, we have formal appeals procedures that ultimately allow coverage disputes related to medical necessity decisions under the benefits contract to be
settled by independent expert physicians.



Service management.In HMO and POS networks, primary care physicians serve as the overall coordinators of members’ health care needs by providing an array of preventive health services and overseeing
referrals to specialists for appropriate medical care. In PPO networks, patients have access to network physicians without a primary care physician serving as the coordinator of care.



Anthem Care Compare.We educate members about high-quality, cost-effective
procedures that are covered by their benefit plans. Members are able to access via the internet a comparison of the cost of care, quality ratings and benefit levels for common services at specified facilities, including the facility and professional
and ancillary service costs. This allows members to make an educated decision about quality and cost before choosing a provider for these common procedures.



Personal Health Care Guidance.These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care,
enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. Examples of services include member and physician messaging, providing access to evidence-based medical guidelines, physician quality profiling, and other
consulting services.



Care Management Programs



We continue to expand our360º Healthsuite of
integrated care management programs and tools, offered through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Health Management Corporation.360º Healthoffers the following programs, among others, that have been proven to increase quality and reduce
medical costs for our members:



ConditionCareandFutureMomsare care management and maternity management programs that serve as excellent adjuncts to physician care. A dedicated nurse and added support from our team of dietitians, exercise physiologists, pharmacists, health
educators and other health professionals help participants understand their condition, their doctor’s orders and how to become a better self-manager of their condition.



24/7 NurseLineoffers access to qualified, registered nurses anytime. This allows our members to make
informed decisions about the appropriate level of care and avoid unnecessary worry. This program also includes a robust audiotape library, accessible by phone, with more than 400 health topics, as well as on-line health education topics designed to
educate members about symptoms and treatment of many common health concerns.



ComplexCareis an advanced care management program that reaches out to participants with multiple health care issues who are at risk for frequent and high levels of medical care in order to offer
support and assistance in managing their health care needs.ComplexCareidentifies candidates through claims analysis using predictive modeling techniques, the use of health risk assessment data, utilization management reports and referrals
from a physician or one of our other programs, such as the24/7 NurseLine.



MyHealth Advantageutilizes integrated information systems and sophisticated data analytics to help our members improve their compliance with evidence-based care guidelines, providing personal care
notes that alert members to potential gaps in care, enable more prudent health care choices, and assist in the realization of member out-of-pocket cost savings.







MyHealth Coachprovides our members with a professional guide who helps them navigate
the health care system and make better decisions about their well-being.MyHealth Coachproactively reaches out to people who are at risk for serious health issues or have complex health care needs. Our health coaches help participants
understand and manage chronic conditions, handle any health and wellness related services they need and make smart lifestyle choices.



HealthyLifestyleshelps employees transform unhealthy habits into positive ones by focusing on behaviors that can have a positive
effect on their health and their employer’s financial well-being.HealthyLifestylesprograms include smoking cessation, weight management, stress management, physical activity and diet and nutrition.



MyHealth@Anthemis our secure web-based solution,
complementing other programs by reinforcing telephonic coaching and mail campaigns. The website engages participants in regularly assessing their health status, gives them feedback about their progress, and tracks important health measures such as
blood pressure, weight and blood glucose levels.



Employee Assistance Programsprovide many resources that allow members to balance work and personal life by providing quick and easy access to confidential resources to help meet the challenges of daily life. Examples of services
available in person as well as via telephone or internet are counseling for child care, health and wellness, financial issues, legal issues, adoption and daily living.



Health Care Quality Initiatives



Increasingly, the health care industry is able to define quality health care based on preventive health measurements, outcomes of care and
optimal care management for chronic disease. A key to our success has been our ability to work with our network physicians and hospitals to improve the quality and outcomes of the health care services provided to our members. Our ability to promote
quality medical care has been recognized by the NCQA, the largest and most respected national accreditation program for managed care health plans.



Several quality health care measures, including the Health Plan Employer Data and Information Set, or HEDIS, have been incorporated into the
oversight certification by NCQA. HEDIS measures range from preventive services, such as screening mammography and pediatric immunization, to elements of care, including decreasing the complications of diabetes and improving treatment for patients
with heart disease. For the HMO and POS plans, NCQA’s highest accreditation is granted only to those plans that demonstrate levels of service and clinical quality that meet or exceed NCQA’s rigorous requirements for consumer protection and
quality improvement. Plans earning this accreditation level must also achieve HEDIS results that are in the highest range of national or regional performance. For the PPO plans, NCQA’s highest accreditation is granted to those plans that have
excellent programs for quality improvement and consumer protection and that meet or exceed NCQA’s standards. Overall, our managed care plans have been rated “Excellent”, the highest accreditation, by NCQA.



We have committed to measuring our progress in improving the
quality of care that our members and our communities receive through our proprietary Member Health Index, or MHI, and State Health Index, or SHI. The MHI is comprised of 20 clinically relevant measures for our health plan members and combines
prevention, care management, clinical outcome and patient safety metrics. The SHI measures the health of all the residents in our BCBSA licensed states, not just our members, using public data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.



Our wholly-owned clinical research and health
outcomes research subsidiary, HealthCore, has supported biopharmaceutical manufacturers, health professionals, and health plans by enabling more effective medical management and increased physician adherence to evidence based care, and creating new
knowledge on the value of clinical therapies, resulting in better care decisions.







Our wholly-owned radiology management subsidiary, AIM, has supported
quality by implementing utilization management programs for advanced imaging procedures that are based on widely accepted clinical guidelines. These programs promote the most appropriate use of these procedures to improve the quality of overall
health care delivered to our members and members of other health plans that are covered under AIM’s programs. In addition to utilization management, AIM has also implemented itsOptiNet®program, which promotes more informed selection of diagnostic imaging facilities by providing cost and facility information to physicians at the point
that a procedure is ordered. AIM also provides education on radiation exposure associated with advanced diagnostic procedures to members and physicians.



Our wholly-owned analytics-driven personal health care guidance subsidiary, Resolution Health Inc., has supported quality by helping our
members take action to get healthy, stay healthy and better manage chronic illness. Our analysis of an individual member’s health data identifies opportunities to improve health care quality and safety; we then send personalized messages to the
member, their doctor and care manager to take action. For example, our drug safety messages inform a member’s doctor, pharmacist or care manager of potentially dangerous drug-drug, drug-condition, drug-age, or drug-dose interactions identified
in our Drug Safety Scan. This helps improve safety, drug effectiveness and medication adherence.



Pricing and Underwriting of Our Products



We price our products based on our assessment of current health care claim costs and emerging health care cost trends, combined with charges for administrative expenses, risk and profit. We continually
review our product designs and pricing guidelines on a national and regional basis so that our products remain competitive and consistent with our profitability goals and strategies.



In applying our pricing to each employer group and customer, we maintain consistent, competitive, strict
underwriting standards. We employ our proprietary accumulated actuarial data in determining underwriting and pricing parameters. Where allowed by law and regulation, we underwrite individual policies based upon the medical history of the individual
applying for coverage, small groups based upon case specific underwriting procedures and large groups based on each group’s aggregate claim experience. Also, we employ credit underwriting procedures with respect to our self-funded products.



In most circumstances, our pricing and
underwriting decisions follow a prospective rating process in which a fixed premium is determined at the beginning of the contract period. For fully-insured business, any deviation, favorable or unfavorable, from the medical costs assumed in
determining the premium is our responsibility. Some of our larger groups employ retrospective rating reviews, where positive experience is partially refunded to the group, and negative experience is charged against a rate stabilization fund
established from the group’s favorable experience, or charged against future favorable experience.



BCBSA Licenses



We have filed for registration of and maintain several service marks, trademarks and trade names at the federal level and in various states in which we operate. We have the exclusive right to use the BCBS
names and marks for our health benefits products in California (Blue Cross only), Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as BCBS in 10 New
York City metropolitan and surrounding counties, and as Blue Cross or BCBS in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas we do
business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield (in our New York service areas).



Our license agreements require an annual fee to be paid to the BCBSA. Through 2007, the fee was based upon enrollment and net revenue as
defined by BCBSA. Beginning in 2008, the fee was based on enrollment only. BCBSA is a national trade association of Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensees, the primary function of







which is to promote and preserve the integrity of the BCBS names and marks, as well as provide certain coordination among the member companies. Each BCBSA licensee is an independent legal
organization and is not responsible for obligations of other BCBSA member organizations. We have no right to market products and services using the BCBS names and marks outside of the states in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products.



We believe that the BCBS names and marks are
valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace. The license agreements, which have a perpetual term, contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the BCBS names and marks. Upon
termination of the license agreements, we would cease to have the right to use the BCBS names and marks in one or more of the states in which we are authorized to use the marks and the BCBSA could thereafter issue licenses to use the BCBS names and
marks in those states to another entity. Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA
ownership limits on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency, the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution.



The license agreements with the BCBSA contain certain
requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the BCBS names and marks, including:



•minimum capital and liquidity requirements;



•enrollment and customer service performance requirements;



•participation in programs that provide portability of membership between plans;



•disclosures to the BCBSA relating to enrollment and financial conditions;



•disclosures as to the structure of the BCBS system in contracts with third parties and in public statements;



•plan governance requirements;



•a requirement that at least 80% (or, in the case of Blue Cross of California, substantially all) of a licensee’s annual combined net revenue
attributable to health benefit plans within its service area must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the BCBS names and marks;



•a requirement that at least 662/3% of a licensee’s annual combined national revenue attributable to health benefit plans must be sold, marketed, administered or underwritten under the BCBS names
and marks;



•a requirement that neither a plan nor any of its licensed affiliates may permit an entity other than a plan or a licensed affiliate to obtain control
of the plan or the licensed affiliate or to acquire a substantial portion of its assets related to licensable services;



•a requirement that limits beneficial ownership of our capital stock to less than 10% for institutional investors and less than 5% for non-institutional
investors;



•a requirement that we divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms;



•a requirement that we guarantee certain contractual and financial obligations of our licensed affiliates; and



•a requirement that we indemnify the BCBSA against any claims asserted against it resulting from the contractual and financial obligations of any
subsidiary that serves as a fiscal intermediary providing administrative services for Medicare Parts A and B.



We believe that we and our licensed affiliates are currently in compliance with these standards. The standards under the license agreements
may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA.







Regulation



General



Our operations are subject to comprehensive and detailed state, federal and international regulation throughout the jurisdictions in which we
do business. Supervisory agencies, including state health, insurance and corporation departments, have broad authority to:



•grant, suspend and revoke licenses to transact business;



•regulate many aspects of our products and services;



•monitor our solvency and reserve adequacy; and



•scrutinize our investment activities on the basis of quality, diversification and other quantitative criteria.



To carry out these tasks, these regulators periodically examine
our operations and accounts.



Regulation of
Insurance Company and HMO Business Activity



The federal government, as well as the governments of the states in which we conduct our operations, have adopted laws and regulations that govern our business activities in various ways. Further, pending health care reform legislation may
result in increased federal regulation that could have a significant impact on our business. These laws and regulations, which vary significantly by state, may restrict how we conduct our businesses and may result in additional burdens and costs to
us. Areas of governmental regulation include but are not limited to:



•licensure;



•premium rates;



•underwriting and pricing;



•benefits;



•eligibility requirements;



•guaranteed renewability;



•service areas;



•market conduct;



•sales and marketing activities;



•quality assurance procedures;



•plan design and disclosures, including mandated benefits;



•underwriting, marketing and rating restrictions for small group products;



•utilization review activities;



•prompt payment of claims;



•requirements that pharmacy benefit managers pass manufacturers’ rebates to customers;



•member rights and responsibilities;



•collection, access or use of protected health information;



•data reporting, including financial data and standards for electronic transactions;



•payment of dividends;



•provider rates of payment;







•surcharges on provider payments;



•provider contract forms;



•provider access standards;



•premium taxes and assessments for the uninsured and/or underinsured;



•member and provider complaints and appeals;



•financial condition (including reserves and minimum capital or risk based capital requirements and investments);



•reimbursement or payment levels for government funded business; and



•corporate governance.



These laws and regulations are subject to amendments and changing interpretations in each jurisdiction.



Our Medicare plans, Medicaid plans and other State-Sponsored
programs are subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations.



States generally require health insurers and HMOs to obtain a certificate of authority prior to commencing operations. If we were to establish a health insurance company or an HMO in any jurisdiction
where we do not presently operate, we generally would have to obtain such a certificate. The time necessary to obtain such a certificate varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Each health insurer and HMO must file periodic financial and operating
reports with the states in which it does business. In addition, health insurers and HMOs are subject to state examination and periodic license renewal. The health benefits business also may be adversely impacted by court and regulatory decisions
that expand the interpretations of existing statutes and regulations. It is uncertain whether we can recoup, through higher premiums or other measures, the increased costs of mandated benefits or other increased costs caused by potential
legislation, regulation or court rulings.



HIPAA and Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act



The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes obligations for issuers of health insurance coverage and health benefit plan sponsors. This law requires guaranteed renewability of health care
coverage for most group health plans and certain individuals. Also, the law limits exclusions based on preexisting medical conditions.



The Administrative Simplification provisions of HIPAA imposed a number of requirements on covered entities (including insurers, HMOs, group
health plans, providers and clearinghouses). These requirements include uniform standards of common electronic health care transactions; privacy and security regulations; and unique identifier rules for employers, health plans and providers.
Recently, additional federal privacy and security requirements, including breach notification, improved enforcement and additional limitations on use and disclosure of protected health information were passed through the HITECH provisions of the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and corresponding implementing regulations. Additional implementing regulations relating to HITECH are expected in 2010.



The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally places restrictions on the disclosure of non-public information to
non-affiliated third parties, and requires financial institutions, including insurers, to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal information is used, including an opportunity to “opt out” of certain
disclosures. State departments of insurance and certain federal agencies adopted implementing regulations as required by federal law. A number of states have adopted data security laws and/or regulations, regulating data security and/or requiring
security breach notification, which may apply to us in certain circumstances. Federal laws and regulations concerning health care and health insurance may be subject to significant change. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form
10-K.







Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974



The provision of services to certain employee welfare benefit
plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, a complex set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation and enforcement by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Labor. ERISA
regulates certain aspects of the relationships between us, the employers who maintain employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Some of our administrative services and other activities may also be subject to
regulation under ERISA. In addition, certain states require licensure or registration of companies providing third party claims administration services for benefit plans. We provide a variety of products and services to employee welfare benefit
plans that are covered by ERISA. Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws and the question of whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law has been, and will continue to be, interpreted by many courts.



HMO and Insurance Holding Company Laws



We are regulated as an insurance holding company and are subject
to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company and HMO subsidiaries are domiciled. These acts contain certain reporting requirements as well as restrictions on transactions between an insurer or HMO and its
affiliates. These holding company laws and regulations generally require insurance companies and HMOs within an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of each state where they are domiciled and to file with those
states’ insurance departments certain reports describing capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. In addition, various notice and reporting requirements generally
apply to transactions between insurance companies and HMOs and their affiliates within an insurance holding company system, depending on the size and nature of the transactions. Some insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior
regulatory approval or, in certain circumstances, prior notice of certain material intercompany transfers of assets as well as certain transactions between insurance companies, HMOs, their parent holding companies and affiliates. Among other
provisions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.



Additionally, the holding company acts of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled restrict the ability of any person to obtain
control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of an insurance holding company, which controls an insurance company
or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance holding company. “Control” is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the
direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person.



Guaranty Fund Assessments



Under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for amounts paid by guaranty
funds for policyholder losses incurred when an insurance company becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty association laws currently provide for assessments based upon the amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within such
state (with a minimum amount payable even if no premium is received). Under many of these guaranty association laws, assessments against insurance companies that issue policies of accident or sickness insurance are made retrospectively.



While the amount and timing of any future assessments cannot
be predicted with certainty, we believe that future guaranty association assessments for insurer insolvencies will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources.







Risk-Based Capital Requirements



The states of domicile of our regulated subsidiaries have
statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other insurance companies and HMOs based on the RBC Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to assess the capital adequacy of life and health insurers and HMOs, taking into
account the risk characteristics of a company’s investments and products. The RBC Model Act sets forth the formula for calculating the RBC requirements, which are designed to take into account asset risks, insurance risks, interest rate risks
and other relevant risks with respect to an individual company’s business. In general, under these laws, an insurance company or HMO must submit a report of its RBC level to the insurance department or insurance commissioner of its state of
domicile for each calendar year.



The law requires
increasing degrees of regulatory oversight and intervention as a company’s RBC declines. The RBC Model Act provides for four different levels of regulatory attention depending on the ratio of a company’s total adjusted capital (defined as
the total of its statutory capital, surplus and asset valuation reserve) to its risk-based capital. The level of regulatory oversight ranges from requiring the company to inform and obtain approval from the domiciling insurance commissioner of a
comprehensive financial plan for increasing its RBC, to mandatory regulatory intervention requiring a company to be placed under regulatory control in a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding. As of December 31, 2009, the RBC levels of our
insurance and HMO subsidiaries exceeded all RBC thresholds.



Employees



At December 31,
2009, we had approximately 40,500 employees. As of December 31, 2009, a small portion of employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements: 170 employees in the Sacramento, California area with the Office and Professional Employees
International Union, Local 29; 53 employees in the greater Detroit, Michigan area with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, Local No. 614; 13 employees in the New York city metropolitan
area with the Office and Professional Employees International Union, Local 153; and 29 employees in Milwaukee, Wisconsin with the Office and Professional Employees International Union, Local 9. Our employees are an important asset, and we seek to
develop them to their full potential. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.



