ITEM 1. BUSINESS.



General





Our mission is to improve the lives of the people we serve and the health of our communities. We strive to achieve our mission by creating
the best health care value in our industry, excelling at day-to-day execution, and capitalizing on new opportunities to drive growth. By delivering on our mission, we expect to create greater value for our customers and shareholders.



We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans
to the large and small employer, individual, Medicaid and senior markets. Our managed care plans include: preferred provider organizations, or PPOs; health maintenance organizations, or HMOs; point-of-service plans, or POS plans; traditional
indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including consumer-driven health plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only and limited benefit products. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims
processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services. We provide an array of specialty and other insurance
products and services such as behavioral health benefit services, dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management, analytics-driven personal health care guidance and long-term care insurance. We also provide
services to the Federal Government in connection with the Federal Employee Program, or FEP, and various Medicare programs. Finally, we sell contact lenses, eyeglasses and other ocular products through our 1-800 CONTACTS, Inc., or 1-800 CONTACTS,
business.



On December 24, 2012, we completed
our acquisition of Amerigroup, one of the nation’s leading managed care companies focused on meeting the health care needs of financially vulnerable Americans. This acquisition furthers our goal of creating better health care quality at more
affordable prices for our customers. Amerigroup also advances our capabilities in effectively and efficiently serving the growing Medicaid population, including the expanding dual eligibles (those enrolled in both Medicare and Medicaid plans),
seniors, persons with disabilities and long-term services and support markets.



On June 20, 2012, we completed our acquisition of 1-800 CONTACTS, the largest direct-to-consumer retailer of contact lenses in the United States, whose model is built on providing a superior customer
experience and a wide selection of ocular products at affordable prices. The acquisition strategically aligns with our efforts







to capitalize on new opportunities for growth to diversify our revenue stream into complementary and higher-margin specialty businesses.



On August 22, 2011, we completed our acquisition of CareMore. CareMore is a senior focused health care
delivery Medicare Advantage program designed to deliver proactive, integrated, individualized health care. CareMore’s market leading programs and services provide members with quality care through a hands-on approach to care coordination,
convenient neighborhood care centers and exercise facilities and intensive treatment of chronic conditions. We believe this approach enhances our ability to create better health outcomes for seniors by engaging members both on the front end of our
relationship, through comprehensive health screenings and enhanced preventive care, and throughout the spectrum of their health care needs. The acquisition of CareMore supports our strategic plans to capitalize on new opportunities for growth in the
changing marketplace and to create the best health care value in our industry. Prior to our acquisition, CareMore provided services in select California, Arizona and Nevada markets. During 2012, we expanded our CareMore business in select New York
and Virginia markets and will continue to review opportunities to expand to other markets in the future.





Economic factors and greater consumer awareness have resulted in the increasing popularity of products that offer larger, more extensive
networks, more member choice related to coverage, physicians and hospitals, and a desire for greater flexibility for customers to assume larger deductibles and co-payments in return for lower premiums. CDHPs, which are relatively high deductible PPO
products and are often paired with some type of member tax-advantaged health care expenditure account that can be used at the member’s discretion to help fund member out-of-pocket costs, help to meet this demand. CDHPs also usually incorporate
member education, wellness, and care management programs to help customers make better informed health care decisions. We believe we are well-positioned in each of our regions to respond to these market preferences.



For our fully-insured products, we charge a premium and
assume all of the health care risk. Under self-funded and partially-insured products, we charge a fee for services, and the employer or plan sponsor reimburses us for all or most of the health care costs.



Our medical membership includes seven different customer
types:



•Local Group



•Individual







•National Accounts



•BlueCard®



•Senior (Medicare programs)



•State-Sponsored (Medicaid programs)



•FEP



BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA. Non-BCBS-branded business refers to members
in our non-BCBS-branded Amerigroup, UniCare and CareMore plans. In addition to the above medical membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business.



Our products are generally developed and marketed
with an emphasis on the differing needs of our customers. In particular, our product development and marketing efforts take into account the differing characteristics between the various customers served by us, as well as the unique needs of
educational and public entities, labor groups, federal employee health and benefit programs, national employers and state-run programs servicing low-income, high-risk and under-served markets. Each business unit is responsible for product design,
pricing, enrolling, underwriting and servicing customers in specific customer types. Overall, we seek to establish pricing and product designs to achieve an appropriate level of profitability for each of our customer categories balanced with the
competitive objective to grow market share. We believe that one of the keys to our success has been our focus on these distinct customer types, which better enables us to develop benefit plans and services that meet our customers’ unique needs.



We market our products through an extensive
network of independent agents and brokers for Individual and Senior customers, as well as for certain Local Group customers with a smaller employee base. Products for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are
generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer and working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force.



Each of the BCBS member companies, of which there were 38 independent primary licensees as of December 31, 2012,
works cooperatively in a number of ways that create significant market advantages, especially when competing for very large multi-state employer groups. As a result of this cooperation, each BCBS member company is able to take advantage of other
BCBS licensees’ substantial provider networks and discounts when any BCBS member works or travels outside of the state in which their policy is written. This program is referred to as BlueCard®, and is a source of revenue when we provide member services in the states where we are the BCBS licensee to individuals who are customers of BCBS plans not affiliated
with us. This program also provides a national provider network for our members when they travel to other states.



For additional information describing each of our customer types, detailed marketing efforts and changes in medical membership over the
last three years, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Form 10-K.



Our results of operations depend in large part on accurately
predicting health care costs and our ability to manage future health care costs through adequate product pricing, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts.



The aging of the population and other demographic
characteristics and advances in medical technology continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit
programs by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality initiatives and financial incentives. Our leading market share and high business retention rates enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in
preventive and







early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management
of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses. In addition, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative costs continues to be a driver of our overall profitability.



Our future results of operations will also be impacted by
certain external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. In 2010, the U.S. Congress passed and the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, as well as the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act of 2010, or HCERA, or collectively, Health Care Reform, which represents significant changes to the U.S. health care system. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time
by increasing the eligibility thresholds for most state Medicaid programs and providing certain other individuals and small businesses with tax credits to subsidize a portion of the cost of health insurance coverage. As a result of the complexity of
the law, its impacts on health care in the United States and the continuing modification and interpretation of Health Care Reform’s rules, we cannot currently estimate the ultimate impact of Health Care Reform on our business, cash flows,
financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion, see “Regulation,” herein and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.



In addition to the external forces discussed in the preceding
paragraph, our results of operations are impacted by levels and mix of membership. In recent years, we experienced significant membership declines due to unfavorable economic conditions driving increased unemployment. We expect unemployment levels
will remain high throughout 2013, which will likely impact our ability to maintain current membership levels. In addition, we believe the self-insured portion of our group membership base will continue to increase as a percentage of total group
membership. These membership trends could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Form 10-K.





We continue to enhance interactions with customers, brokers, agents, employees and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology and improving internal operations. Our approach includes not only sales
and distribution of health benefits products on the Internet, but also implementation of advanced capabilities that improve service benefiting customers, agents, brokers, and providers while optimizing administrative costs. These enhancements can
also help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care through increased communications between patients and their physicians.



We intend to continue pursuing our mission to improve the lives of the people we serve and the health of our communities, while driving
growth in both existing and new markets, including expansion of CareMore, 1-800 CONTACTS and Amerigroup. At the same time, we will focus on earnings per share, or EPS, growth through organic membership gains, improvements in our operating cost
structure, strategic acquisitions and efficient use of capital.







Significant Transactions



The more significant transactions that have occurred over the
last five years that have impacted or will impact our capital structure or that have or will influence how we conduct our business operations include:



•Acquisition of Amerigroup, as previously described, and the related debt issuance (2012)



•Acquisition of 1-800 CONTACTS, as previously described (2012)



•Use of Capital—Board of Directors declaration of dividends on common stock (2012 and 2011) and authorization for repurchases of our common stock
(2012 and prior)



•Acquisition of CareMore, as previously described (2011)



•Sale of our pharmacy benefits management, or PBM, business to Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts (2009)



•Acquisition of DeCare Dental, LLC, or DeCare (2009)



For additional information regarding certain of these
transactions, see Note 3, “Business Combinations,” Note 13, “Debt,” and Note 15, “Capital Stock,” to our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012, included in
this Form 10-K.



Competition



The managed care industry is highly competitive, both
nationally and in our regional markets. Competition continues to be intense due to aggressive marketing, business consolidations, a proliferation of new products and increased quality awareness and price sensitivity among customers.



Health benefits industry participants compete for customers
mainly on the following factors:



•quality of service;



•access to provider networks;



•access to care management and wellness programs, including health information;



•innovation, breadth and flexibility of products and benefits;



•reputation (including National Committee on Quality Assurance, or NCQA, accreditation status);



•brand recognition;



•price; and



•financial stability.



Over the last few years, a health plan’s ability to interact with employers, members and other third parties (including health care
professionals) via the Internet has become a more important competitive factor and we have made significant investments in technology to enhance our electronic interaction with providers, employers, members and third parties.



We believe our exclusive right to market products under the
most recognized brand in the industry, BCBS, in our most significant markets provides us with an advantage over our competition. Our provider networks in our markets enable us to achieve efficiencies and distinctive service levels enabling us to
offer a broad range of health benefits to our customers on a more cost-effective basis than many of our competitors. We strive to distinguish our products through provider access, service, care management, product value and brand recognition.







To build our provider networks, we compete with other health benefits plans for the best
contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers. We believe that physicians and other providers primarily consider member volume, reimbursement rates, timeliness of reimbursement and administrative service capabilities along with the
reduction of non-value added administrative tasks when deciding whether to contract with a health benefits plan.



At the sales and distribution level, we compete for qualified agents and brokers to recommend and distribute our products. Strong
competition exists among insurance companies and health benefits plans for agents and brokers with demonstrated ability to secure new business and maintain existing accounts. We believe that quality and price of our products, support services,
reputation and prior relationships, along with a reasonable commission structure are the factors agents and brokers consider in choosing whether to market our products. We believe that we have good relationships with our agents and brokers, and that
our products, support services and commission structure compare favorably to our competitors in all of our markets. Typically we are the lead competitor in each of our markets and, thus, are a closely watched target by other insurance competitors.



Reportable Segments



We currently manage our operations through three reportable
segments: Commercial, Consumer, and Other. We regularly evaluate the appropriateness of our reportable segments, particularly in light of organizational changes, merger and acquisition activity and changing laws and regulations. Therefore, these
reportable segments may change in the future.



Our
Commercial and Consumer segments both offer a diversified mix of managed care products, including PPOs, HMOs, traditional indemnity benefits and POS plans, as well as a variety of hybrid benefit plans including CDHPs, hospital only and limited
benefit products.



Our Commercial segment includes
Local Group (including UniCare), National Accounts and certain other ancillary business operations (dental, vision, life and disability and workers’ compensation). Business units in the Commercial segment offer fully-insured products and
provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and
other administrative services. Our Commercial segment also includes the operations of our 1-800 CONTACTS business.



Our Consumer segment includes Senior, State-Sponsored and Individual businesses. Our Senior business includes services such as Medicare
Advantage (including private fee-for-service plans and special needs plans), Medicare Part D, and Medicare Supplement, while our State-Sponsored business includes our managed care alternatives through publicly funded health care programs, including
Medicaid, state Children’s Health Insurance Programs, or CHIP, and Medicaid expansion programs (including those programs managed by Amerigroup). Individual business includes individual customers under age 65 and their covered dependents.



Our Other segment includes the Comprehensive
Health Solutions Business unit, or CHS, that brings together our resources focused on optimizing the quality of health care, the clinical consumer experience and cost of care management. CHS includes provider relations, care and disease management,
employee assistance programs, including behavioral health, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven, evidence based personal health care guidance. Our Other segment also includes results from our Federal Government Solutions, or FGS,
business. FGS business includes FEP and National Government Services, Inc., or NGS, which acts as a Medicare contractor in several regions across the nation. The Other segment also includes other businesses that do not meet the quantitative
thresholds for an operating segment as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance for disclosure about segments of an enterprise and related information, as well as intersegment sales and expense eliminations and corporate
expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments.







Through our participation in various federal government programs, we generated approximately
23.6%, 23.5% and 21.9% of our total consolidated revenues from agencies of the U.S. government for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. These revenues are contained in the Consumer and Other segments. An immaterial amount of our
total consolidated revenues are derived from activities outside of the U.S.



For additional information regarding the operating results of our segments, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
and Note 20, “Segment Information,” to our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012, included in this Form 10-K.



Products and Services



A general description of our products and services is
provided below:



Preferred Provider
Organization:PPO products offer the member an option to select any health care provider, with benefits reimbursed by us at a higher level when care is received from a participating network provider. Coverage is subject to
co-payments or deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.



Consumer-Driven Health Plans:CDHPs provide consumers with increased financial responsibility, choice and
control regarding how their health care dollars are spent. Generally, CDHPs combine a high-deductible PPO plan with an employer-funded and/or employee-funded personal care account, which may result in tax benefits to the employee. Some or all of the
dollars remaining in the personal care account at year-end can be rolled over to the next year for future health care needs.



Traditional Indemnity:Indemnity products offer the member an option to select any health care provider for
covered services. Coverage is subject to deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums.



Health Maintenance Organization:HMO products include comprehensive managed care benefits, generally through
a participating network of physicians, hospitals and other providers. A member in one of our HMOs must typically select a primary care physician, or PCP, from our network. PCPs generally are family practitioners, internists or pediatricians who
provide necessary preventive and primary medical care, and are generally responsible for coordinating other necessary health care services. We offer HMO plans with varying levels of co-payments, which result in different levels of premium rates.



Point-of-Service:POS products blend the characteristics of HMO, PPO and indemnity plans. Members can have
comprehensive HMO-style benefits through participating network providers with minimum out-of-pocket expenses (co-payments) and also can go directly, without a referral, to any provider they choose, subject to, among other things, certain deductibles
and coinsurance. Member cost sharing is limited by out-of-pocket maximums.



Administrative Services:In addition to fully-insured products, we provide administrative services to large group employers that maintain self-funded health plans. These
administrative services include underwriting, actuarial services, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs, claims processing and other administrative services for self-funded employers. Self-funded health plans are also able
to use our provider networks and to realize savings through our negotiated provider arrangements, while allowing employers the ability to design certain health benefit plans in accordance with their own requirements and objectives. We also
underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans.



BlueCard®:BlueCard®host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which a WellPoint subsidiary is the Blue
Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer sponsored health plan serviced by a non-WellPoint controlled BCBS licensee, who is the “home” plan. We







perform certain administrative functions for BlueCard®host members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard®members’ home plans. Other
administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan.



Senior Plans:We offer a wide variety of senior plans, products and options such as Medicare supplement
plans, Medicare Advantage (including private fee-for-service plans and special needs plans) and Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans, or Medicare Part D. Medicare supplement plans typically pay the difference between health care costs incurred by
a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. In addition, our Medicare Advantage special
needs plans provide tailored benefits to Medicare beneficiaries who have chronic diseases and also cover certain dual eligible customers, which represent low-income seniors and persons under age 65 with disabilities who are enrolled in both Medicare
and Medicaid plans. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and dual eligible (Medicare and Medicaid) beneficiaries. We offer these plans to customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country, including
Amerigroup and CareMore.



Individual
Plans:We offer a full range of health insurance plans with a variety of options and deductibles for individuals under age 65 who are not covered by employer-sponsored coverage. Some of our products target certain
demographic populations such as uninsured younger individuals between the ages of 19 and 29, families, those transitioning between jobs or early retirees.



Medicaid Plans and Other State-Sponsored
Programs:We have contracts to serve members enrolled in publicly funded health care programs, including Medicaid, CHIP, and Medicaid expansion programs. The Medicaid program makes federal matching funds available to all
states for the delivery of health care benefits for low income and/or high medical risk individuals. These programs are managed by the individual states based on broad federal guidelines. CHIP is a state and federally funded program that provides
health care coverage to children not otherwise covered by Medicaid or other insurance programs. Our Medicaid plans also cover certain dual eligible customers, as previously described above, who also receive Medicare benefits. We provide services in
California, Indiana, Kansas, Massachusetts, New York, South Carolina, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia and Wisconsin. Effective with the Amerigroup acquisition, we now provide Medicaid and other State-Sponsored services in the additional states of
Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Tennessee, Ohio, New Mexico and Washington, and we began providing Medicaid services as Amerigroup in Kansas beginning January 1, 2013.



Pharmacy Products:We market
and sell an integrated prescription drug product to both fully-insured and self-funded customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country. This comprehensive product includes features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy
network and maintenance of a prescription drug database and mail order capabilities. Since December 1, 2009, we have delegated certain functions and administrative services related to our integrated prescription drug products to Express
Scripts, under a ten year contract, excluding Amerigroup and certain self-insured members, which have exclusive agreements with different PBM services providers. Express Scripts manages the network of pharmacy providers, operates mail order
pharmacies and processes prescription drug claims on our behalf, while we sell and support the product for clients, make formulary decisions and set drug benefit design strategy and provide front line member support.



Life Insurance:We offer an
array of competitive individual and group life insurance benefit products to both large and small group customers in conjunction with our health plans. The life products include term life and accidental death and dismemberment.



Disability:We offer short-term
and long-term disability programs, usually in conjunction with our health plans.



Behavioral Health:We offer specialized behavioral health plans and benefit management. These plans cover mental health and substance abuse treatment services on both an inpatient and an outpatient
basis. We have







implemented employee assistance and behavioral managed care programs for a wide variety of businesses throughout the United States. These programs are offered through our subsidiaries.



Radiology Benefit
Management:We offer outpatient diagnostic imaging management services to health plans. These services include utilization management for advanced diagnostic imaging procedures, network development and optimization,
patient safety, claims adjudication and provider payment.



Personal Health Care Guidance:We offer leading evidence-based and analytics-driven personal health care guidance. These services help improve the quality, coordination and
safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs.



Dental:Our dental plans include networks in certain states in which we operate. Many of the dental benefits
are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. Our members also have access to additional dental providers through our participation in the National Dental GRID, a national
dental network developed by and for BCBS plans. The National Dental GRID includes dentists in all 50 states and provides multi-state customers with a national solution providing in-network discounts across the country. Additionally, we offer managed
dental services to other health care plans to assist those other health care plans in providing dental benefits to their customers.



Vision Services and Products:Our vision plans include networks within the states where we operate. Many of
the vision benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. In addition to vision plans, we sell contact lenses, eyeglasses and other ocular products through our 1-800
CONTACTS business.



Long-Term Care
Insurance:We offer long-term care insurance products to our California members through a subsidiary. The long-term care products include tax-qualified and non-tax qualified versions of a skilled nursing home care plan and
comprehensive policies covering skilled, intermediate and custodial long-term care and home health services.



Medicare Administrative Operations:Through our subsidiary, NGS, we serve as a fiscal intermediary, carrier
and Medicare administrative contractor providing administrative services for the Medicare program, which generally provides coverage for persons who are 65 or older and for persons who are disabled or with end-stage renal disease. Part A of the
Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other health care facilities. Part B of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by physicians, physical and occupational
therapists and other professional providers, as well as certain durable medical equipment and medical supplies.



Networks and Provider Relations



Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and professionals that render health care services to our members are guided by local, regional and national standards for network development, reimbursement
and contract methodologies. While following industry standards, we are simultaneously seeking to lead and transform in the areas of payment innovation and payment for value. A key element of this transformation involves the engagement of members,
providers and ourself in shared decision making, shared accountability and shared risk. It requires a transition away from traditional fee-for-service models to a more sustainable value-based system.



We establish “market-based” hospital reimbursement
payments that we believe are fair, but aggressive, and among the most competitive in the market. We also seek to ensure that physicians in our network are paid in a timely manner at appropriate rates. In many instances, we deploy multi-year
contracting strategies, including case or fixed rates, to limit our exposure to medical cost inflation and to increase cost predictability. We seek to maintain broad provider networks to ensure member choice, based on both price and access needs,
while







implementing programs designed to improve the quality of care received by our members. Increasingly, we are supplementing our broad based networks with smaller,or more cost-effective networks,
that are designed to be attractive to a more price-sensitive customer segment.





It is generally our philosophy not to delegate full financial responsibility to our physician providers in the form of capitation-based
reimbursement. However, in certain markets we believe capitation can be a useful method to lower costs and reduce underwriting risk, and we therefore have some capitation contracts.



Our hospital contracts provide for a variety of reimbursement arrangements depending on local market dynamics
and current hospital utilization efficiency. Most hospitals are reimbursed a fixed amount per day or reimbursed a per-case amount, per admission, for inpatient covered services. A small percentage of hospitals, primarily rural, sole community
hospitals, are reimbursed on a discount from approved charge basis for covered services. Our “per-case” reimbursement methods utilize many of the same attributes contained in Medicare’s Diagnosis Related Groups, or DRG, methodology.
Hospital outpatient services are reimbursed by fixed case rates, fee schedules or percent of approved charges. Our hospital contracts recognize unique hospital attributes, such as academic medical centers or community hospitals, and the volume of
care performed for our members. To improve predictability of expected cost, we frequently use a multi-year contracting approach and have been transitioning to case rate payment methodologies. Many of our hospital contracts include a “pay for
performance” component where reimbursement levels are linked to improved clinical performance, patient safety and medical error reduction.









physicians regardless of where they practice or how they are organized. We have arrangements in place with both independent and hospital employed primary care physicians as well as physicians who
practice as part of a small group and physicians who are part of an Accountable Care Organization, or ACO. We began an expansion of these programs in 2012 and intend to roll them out to all of our markets in 2013. Thereafter, through 2015, we will
continue to expand the breadth of our programs in each market by adding additional physicians to the program.



Medical Management Programs



Our medical management programs include a broad array of activities that facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost-effective medical care. These medical
management activities and programs are administered and directed by physicians and trained nurses. The goals of our medical management strategies are to ensure that the care delivered to our members is supported by appropriate medical and scientific
evidence, is received on a timely basis and occurs in the most appropriate location.



Precertification:A traditional medical management program involves assessment of the appropriateness of certain hospitalizations and other medical services prior to the
service being rendered. For example, precertification is used to determine whether a set of hospital and medical services is being appropriately applied to the member’s clinical condition, in accordance with criteria for medical necessity as
that term is defined in the member’s benefits contract. All of our health plans have implemented precertification programs for common high-tech radiology studies, including cardiac diagnostic testing, addressing an area of historically
significant cost trends. Through our American Imaging Management Specialty Health subsidiary we promote appropriate, safe and affordable member care in imaging as well as oncology, sleep management and specialty pharmacy benefits. These expanded
specialty benefit management solutions leverage clinical expertise and technology to engage our provider communities and members in more effective and efficient use of outpatient services.



Care Coordination:Another traditional medical management strategy we use is care
coordination, which is based on nationally recognized criteria developed by third-party medical specialists. With inpatient care coordination, the requirements and intensity of services during a patient’s hospital stay are reviewed, at times by
an onsite skilled nurse professional in collaboration with the hospital’s medical and nursing staff, in order to coordinate care and determine the most effective transition of care from the hospital setting. In addition, guidance for many
continued stay cases is reviewed with physician medical directors to ensure appropriate utilization of medical services. We also coordinate care for outpatient services to help ensure that patients with chronic conditions who receive care from
multiple physicians are able to manage the exchange of information between physicians and coordinate office visits to their physicians.



Case Management:We are also implementing a medical management strategy focused on identifying the small
percentage of the membership that will require a high level of intervention to manage their health care needs. The registered nurses and medical directors focus on members likely to be readmitted to the hospital and help them coordinate their care
through pharmacy compliance, post-hospital care, follow-up visits to see their physician and support in their home.



Formulary management:We have developed formularies, which are selections of drugs based on clinical quality
and effectiveness. A pharmacy and therapeutics committee of physicians uses scientific and clinical evidence to ensure that our members have access to the appropriate drug therapies.



Medical policy:A medical policy group comprised of physician leaders from
various areas of the country, working in cooperation with academic medical centers, practicing community physicians and medical specialty organizations such as the American College of Radiology and national organizations such as the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention and the American Cancer Society, determines our national policy for the application of new medical technologies and treatments.







Quality programs:We are actively engaged with our hospital
and physician networks to enable them to improve medical and surgical care and achieve better outcomes for our members. We endorse, encourage and incent hospitals and physicians to support national initiatives to improve the quality of clinical care
and patient outcomes and to reduce medication errors and hospital infections. We have demonstrated our leadership in developing hospital quality programs.



External review procedures:We work with outside experts through a process of external review to provide our
members scientifically and clinically, evidence-based medical care. When we receive member concerns, we have formal appeals procedures that ultimately allow coverage disputes related to medical necessity decisions under the benefits contract to be
settled by independent expert physicians.



Service management:In HMO and POS networks, primary care physicians serve as the overall
coordinators of members’ health care needs by providing an array of preventive health services and overseeing referrals to specialists for appropriate medical care. In PPO networks, patients have access to network physicians without a primary
care physician serving as the coordinator of care.



Anthem Care Comparison:Anthem Care Comparison, or ACC, is an innovative comparison tool that discloses price ranges and quality data for common services at contracted
providers, including the facility, professional and ancillary services. The price ranges include a bundle of related services typically performed at the time of the procedure, not just the procedure itself. Users can review cost data for
approximately 100 procedures in 48 states and Puerto Rico. ACC provides information on key quality factors such as the number of specific procedures performed, patient safety, facility complication rates, mortality rates and average length of
stay. We continue to work on enhancing and evolving the ACC program to assist members in making informed health care decisions.



Personal Health Care Guidance:These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health
care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. Examples of services include member and physician messaging, providing access to evidence-based medical guidelines, physician quality profiling, and other
consulting services.



Care Management Programs



We continue to expand our360º Healthsuite of
integrated care management programs and tools.360º Healthoffers the following programs, among others, that have been proven to increase quality and reduce medical costs for our members:



ConditionCareandFutureMomsare care
management and maternity management programs that serve as adjuncts to physician care. Skilled nurse professionals with added support from our team of dietitians, social workers, pharmacists, health educators and other health professionals help
participants understand their condition, their doctor’s orders and how to become a better self-manager of their condition.



24/7 NurseLineoffers access to qualified, registered nurses anytime. This allows our members to make informed decisions about the
appropriate level of care and avoid unnecessary worry. This program also includes a referral process to the nearest urgent care facility, a robust audiotape library, accessible by phone, with more than 400 health and wellness topics, as well as
on-line health education topics designed to educate members about symptoms and treatment of many common health concerns.



ComplexCareis an advanced care management program that reaches out to participants with multiple health care issues who are at
risk for frequent and high levels of medical care in order to offer support and assistance in managing their health care needs.ComplexCareidentifies candidates through claims analysis using predictive modeling techniques, the use of health
risk assessment data, utilization management reports and referrals from a physician or one of our other programs, such as the24/7 NurseLine.







MyHealth Advantageutilizes integrated information systems and
sophisticated data analytics to help our members improve their compliance with evidence-based care guidelines, providing personal care notes that alert members to potential gaps in care, enable more prudent health care choices, and assist in the
realization of member out-of-pocket cost savings. Key opportunities are also shared with physicians through
Availity®at the time of membership eligibility verification. Availity®is an electronic data interchange system that allows for the exchange of health information among providers over a
secure network.



MyHealth Coachprovides
our members with a professional guide who helps them navigate the health care system and make better decisions about their well-being.MyHealth Coachproactively reaches out to people who are at risk for serious health issues or have complex
health care needs. Our health coaches help participants understand and manage chronic conditions, handle any health and wellness related services they need and make smart lifestyle choices.



HealthyLifestyleshelps employees transform unhealthy habits into positive ones by focusing on behaviors
that can have a positive effect on their health and their employer’s financial well-being.HealthyLifestylesprograms include smoking cessation, weight management, stress management, physical activity and diet and nutrition.



MyHealth@Anthemis our secure web-based solution,
complementing other programs by reinforcing telephonic coaching and mail campaigns. The website engages participants in regularly assessing their health status, gives them feedback about their progress, and tracks important health measures such as
blood pressure, weight and blood glucose levels.



Employee Assistance Programsprovide many resources that allow members to balance work and personal life by providing quick and
easy access to confidential resources to help meet the challenges of daily life. Examples of services available in person as well as via telephone or internet are counseling for child care, health and wellness, financial issues, legal issues,
adoption and daily living.



Health Care Quality Initiatives



Increasingly, the health care industry is
able to define quality health care based on preventive health measurements, outcomes of care and optimal care management for chronic disease. A key to our success has been our ability to work with our network physicians and hospitals to improve the
quality and outcomes of the health care services provided to our members. Our ability to promote quality medical care has been recognized by the NCQA, the largest and most respected national accreditation program for managed care health plans.



Several quality health care
measures, including the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS®, have been incorporated
into the NCQA’s accreditation processes. HEDIS®measures range from preventive services, such as screening
mammography and pediatric immunization, to elements of care, including decreasing the complications of diabetes and improving treatment for patients with heart disease. For health plans, NCQA’s highest accreditation status of Excellent is
granted only to those plans that demonstrate levels of service and clinical quality that meet or exceed NCQA’s rigorous requirements for consumer protection and quality improvement. Plans earning this accreditation level must also achieve HEDIS®results that are in the highest range of national or regional performance. Details for each of our plans’
accreditation levels can be found atwww.ncqa.org.



We have committed to measuring our progress in improving the quality of care that our members and our communities receive through our proprietary Member Health Index, or MHI, and State Health Index, or
SHI. The MHI is comprised of 23 clinically relevant measures for our health plan members and combines prevention, care management, clinical outcome and patient safety metrics. The SHI measures the health of all the residents in our BCBSA licensed
states, not just our members, using public data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.







Our wholly-owned clinical research and health outcomes research subsidiary, HealthCore, has
supported biopharmaceutical manufacturers, health professionals, and health plans by enabling more effective medical management and increased physician adherence to evidence-based care, and creating new knowledge on the value of clinical therapies,
resulting in better care decisions.



Our wholly-owned specialty benefit management subsidiary, AIM, has supported quality by implementing clinical appropriateness and patient safety programs for advanced imaging procedures and specialty
pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs, covered under the medical benefit, that are based on widely accepted clinical guidelines. These programs promote the most appropriate use of these procedures to improve the quality of overall health care
delivered to our members and members of other health plans that are covered under AIM’s programs. In addition to its clinical appropriateness program, AIM has also implemented a network assessmentOptiNet®program, which promotes more informed selection of diagnostic imaging facilities by providing cost and facility
information to physicians at the point that a procedure is ordered. In 2011, we leveraged AIM’s network assessment information to proactively educate our members about imaging site choices based on site capabilities and cost differences. This
program is another example of how we facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost effective medical care. AIM also provides education on radiation exposure associated with advanced diagnostic procedures to
members and physicians to improve patient and provider safety.



Our wholly-owned analytics-driven personal health care guidance subsidiary, Resolution Health, Inc., has supported quality by helping our members take action to get healthy, stay healthy and better manage
chronic illness. Our analysis of an individual member’s health data identifies opportunities to improve health care quality and safety; we then send personalized messages to the member, their doctor and care manager to take action. For example,
our drug safety messages inform a member’s doctor, pharmacist or care manager of potentially dangerous drug-drug, drug-condition, drug-age, or drug-dose interactions identified in our Drug Safety Scan. This helps improve safety, drug
effectiveness and medication adherence.



Pricing and
Underwriting of Our Products



We price our
products based on our assessment of current health care claim costs and emerging health care cost trends, combined with charges for administrative expenses, risk and profit. We continually review our product designs and pricing guidelines on a
national and regional basis so that our products remain competitive and consistent with our profitability goals and strategies.



In applying our pricing to each employer group and customer, we maintain consistent, competitive, strict underwriting standards. We employ
our proprietary accumulated actuarial data in determining underwriting and pricing parameters. Where allowed by law and regulation, we underwrite individual policies based upon the medical history of the individual applying for coverage, small
groups based upon case specific underwriting procedures and large groups based on each group’s aggregate claim experience. Also, we employ credit underwriting procedures with respect to our self-funded products.



In most circumstances, our pricing and underwriting decisions
follow a prospective rating process in which a fixed premium is determined at the beginning of the contract period. For fully-insured business, any deviation, favorable or unfavorable, from the medical costs assumed in determining the premium is our
responsibility. Some of our larger groups employ retrospective rating reviews, where positive experience is partially refunded to the group, and negative experience is charged against a rate stabilization fund established from the group’s
favorable experience, or charged against future favorable experience.



BCBSA Licenses



We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive, and in certain areas, non-exclusive use of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in assigned geographic
territories.







BCBSA is a national trade association of Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensees, the primary function of which is to promote and preserve the integrity of the BCBS names and marks, as well as
provide certain coordination among the member companies. Each BCBSA licensee is an independent legal organization and is not responsible for obligations of other BCBSA member organizations. We have no right to market products and services using the
BCBS names and marks outside of the states in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products. We are required to pay an annual license fee to the BCBSA based on enrollment and also to comply with various operational and financial standards set forth in
the licenses.



We believe that we and our licensed
affiliates are currently in compliance with these standards. The standards under the license agreements may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K for additional details of
our licensing requirements and the impact if we were not to comply with these license agreements.



Regulation



General



Our operations are subject to comprehensive and detailed state, federal and international regulation throughout the jurisdictions in which we do business. As discussed below, the regulatory aspects of the
U.S. health care system have been and will continue to be significantly affected by Health Care Reform. Supervisory agencies, including state health, insurance and corporation departments, have broad authority to:



•grant, suspend and revoke licenses to transact business;



•regulate many aspects of our products and services;



•monitor our solvency and reserve adequacy;



•scrutinize our investment activities on the basis of quality, diversification and other quantitative criteria; and



•impose monetary sanctions for non-compliance with regulatory requirements.



To carry out these tasks, these regulators periodically examine our operations and accounts.



Regulation of Insurance Company and HMO Business Activity



The governments of the states in which we
conduct business, as well as the federal government, have adopted laws and regulations that govern our business activities in various ways. Further, federal Health Care Reform legislation has resulted in increased federal regulation that is likely
to have a significant impact on our business. These laws and regulations, which vary significantly from state to state and on the federal level, may restrict how we conduct our businesses and may result in additional burdens and costs to us. Areas
of governmental regulation include but are not limited to:



•medical loss ratios;



•tax deductibility of certain compensation;



•licensure;



•premium rates;



•benefits;



•eligibility requirements;



•guaranteed renewability;



•service areas;







•market conduct;



•sales and marketing activities, including use and compensation of brokers and other distribution channels;



•quality assurance procedures;



•plan design and disclosures, including mandated benefits;



•underwriting, marketing, pricing and rating restrictions for insurance products;



•utilization review activities;



•prompt payment of claims;



•member rights and responsibilities;



•collection, access or use of protected health information;



•data reporting, including financial data and standards for electronic transactions;



•payment of dividends;



•provider rates of payment;



•surcharges on provider payments;



•provider contract forms;



•provider access standards;



•premium taxes, assessments for the uninsured and/or underinsured and insolvency guaranty payments;



•member and provider complaints and appeals;



•financial condition (including reserves and minimum capital or risk based capital requirements and investments);



•reimbursement or payment levels for government funded business; and



•corporate governance.



These state and federal laws and regulations are subject to amendments and changing interpretations in each jurisdiction.



States generally require health insurers and HMOs to obtain a
certificate of authority prior to commencing operations. If we were to establish a health insurance company or an HMO in any jurisdiction where we do not presently operate, we generally would have to obtain such a certificate. The time necessary to
obtain such a certificate varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Each health insurer and HMO must file periodic financial and operating reports with the states in which it does business. In addition, health insurers and HMOs are subject to state
examination and periodic license renewal. The health benefits business also may be adversely impacted by court and regulatory decisions that expand the interpretations of existing statutes and regulations. It is uncertain whether we can recoup,
through higher premiums or other measures, the increased costs of mandated benefits or other increased costs caused by potential legislation, regulation or court rulings. See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.



Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act



The ACA, signed into law on March 23,
2010, has created significant changes and will continue to create significant changes for health insurance markets for the next several years. Specifically, many of the near-term changes were effective for certain groups and individuals on their
first renewal on or after September 23, 2010,







including a prohibition on lifetime limits, certain annual limits, member cost-sharing on specified preventive benefits, pre-existing condition exclusions for children, increased restrictions on
rescinding coverage and extension of coverage of dependents to the age of 26. Certain requirements for insurers were also effective in 2011, including changes to Medicare Advantage payments and the minimum medical loss ratio, or MLR, provision that
requires insurers to pay rebates to customers when insurers do not meet or exceed the specified MLR thresholds. Most of the provisions of ACA with more significant effects on the health insurance marketplace go into effect on January 1, 2014,
including a requirement that insurers guarantee the issuance of coverage to all individuals regardless of health status, strict rules on how health insurance is rated, the assessment of new taxes and fees (including annual fees on health insurance
companies), the creation of new insurance exchanges for individuals and small groups, and substantial expansions in eligibility for Medicaid.



Many of the details of the law require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services,
or HHS, the Department of Labor, CMS and the Department of the Treasury. In certain cases, these regulatory agencies were directed to consider recommendations from external groups, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or
NAIC. Some provisions have final rules available for review and comment, while some proposed regulations have yet to be released and others are in-process. We are evaluating each of these rules carefully; and, therefore, it continues to be too early
to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business. Some of the more significant considerations of ACA are described below:



•MLR regulations were issued by HHS in December 2011; however, significant changes could still occur to the MLR requirements through additional
regulatory guidance and/or modification of the regulation. The minimum MLR thresholds by line of business are as follows:



Line of Business%Large Group85Small Group80Individual80



New York state regulations
require us to meet a more restrictive MLR threshold of 82% for both Small Group and Individual lines of business. Certain other states have received approval from HHS to phase-in the MLR requirements in the Individual markets in those states and, as
a result, are currently using lower thresholds for determination of potential rebates. The minimum MLR thresholds disclosed above are based on definitions of an MLR calculation provided by HHS, or specific states, as applicable, and differ from our
calculation of “benefit expense ratio” based on premium revenue and benefit expense as reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Furthermore, the definitions of the lines of business differ under
the various state and federal regulations and may not correspond to our lines of business. Proposed changes to the definitions under the MLR regulation could also impact insurers differently depending upon their organizational structure or tax
status, which could result in a competitive advantage to some insurance providers that may not be available to us, resulting in an uneven playing field in the industry. Significant changes to the MLR requirements may occur through additional
regulatory action by HHS or other government bodies.



Approximately 74.4% and 28.5% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012. Approximately
76.0% and 31.3% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011.



•ACA requires states to establish health insurance exchanges by January 1, 2014 through which qualified individuals and qualified small employers
may access coverage. If a state fails to establish a health insurance exchange, the federal government will establish a health insurance exchange in that state. While states have some flexibility over the design and implementation of these
health insurance exchanges, during 2011 HHS released a series of proposed regulations outlining more detailed







requirements for the state establishment of exchanges. As of January 1, 2013, five states in which we conduct commercial or individual business have passed legislation or executive orders
establishing health insurance exchanges (California, Colorado, Connecticut, Nevada and New York).



•Regulations became effective in September 2011 that require filings for premium rate increases for small group and individual products above specified
thresholds, generally 10%, to be reviewed. The regulations provide for state insurance regulators to conduct the reviews, except for cases where a state does not have an “effective” rate review program, in which case HHS will conduct the
reviews for any rate filed.



•ACA includes three “risk adjuster” programs that will introduce new requirements beginning in 2014 depending on the risk mix of individuals
enrolled in the individual and small group markets. Among other things, these programs require insurers enrolling lower-risk individuals to pay into funds to compensate insurers enrolling higher-risk individuals. Details of these programs in
the form of proposed regulations have begun to emerge and will continue to be finalized during 2013. States will be given some flexibility to tailor their risk adjustment program.



•Depending on the laws in each state, health insurers are currently allowed to consider factors such as health status, gender and age in determining the
appropriate premium for products in the individual and small group markets. Some states have adopted rules that limit the variation between the highest and lowest premium for the identical insurance policy. The differential in pricing is commonly
referred to as “ratings bands”. The process of using these rating bands allows health insurers to appropriately price for products and to spread the risk more broadly across all policyholders. Beginning in 2014, the ACA precludes health
insurers from using health status and gender in the determination of the appropriate insurance premium. In addition, rating bands for age cannot vary by more than 3 to 1 and the rating bands for tobacco use cannot vary by more than 1.5 to 1. This
change will likely have a significant impact on the majority of individual and small group customers and could lead to adverse selection in the market.



•Medicare Advantage reimbursement rates will not increase as much as they would otherwise due to a new payment formula promulgated by ACA that is
expected to significantly reduce reimbursements in the future. We also expect further and ongoing regulatory guidance on a number of issues related to Medicare, including the Medicare Advantage MLR, evolving methodology for ratings and quality
bonus payments and potential action on an audit methodology to review data submitted under “risk adjuster” programs.



On June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision affirming that the majority of the provisions of the ACA were
constitutional. However, the provision of the ACA related to the mandatory expansion of state Medicaid programs was declared unconstitutional.



Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act



During 2010, the U.S. Congress passed and the President
signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a far-reaching overhaul of the framework for the U.S. financial services industry. Even though we are primarily a
health benefits company, our business has been impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act. Many of its provisions require the adoption of rules for implementation, including those that govern which non-bank financial companies may become subject to the
oversight of the Federal Reserve. These non-bank financial companies are defined as those that could pose a threat to the economy’s financial stability either due to the potential of material financial distress at the company or due to the
company’s ongoing activities. While we do not believe that we are considered a non-bank financial company for purposes of Federal Reserve oversight, future regulations or interpretations could change that result. Further, our investments in
derivative instruments are subject to new rules regarding the reporting and clearing of transactions and new margin requirements.







In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a Federal Insurance Office, with limited powers that
include information-gathering and subpoena authority. Although the Federal Insurance Office does not have authority over health insurance, it may have authority over other parts of our business, such as life insurance.



HIPAA and Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act



The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes obligations for issuers of health insurance coverage and health benefit plan sponsors. This law requires guaranteed renewability of health care coverage for most group health plans and certain individuals. Also, the
law limits exclusions based on preexisting medical conditions.



The Administrative Simplification provisions of HIPAA imposed a number of requirements on covered entities (including insurers, HMOs, group health plans, providers and clearinghouses). These requirements
include uniform standards of common electronic health care transactions; privacy and security regulations; and unique identifier rules for employers, health plans and providers. Additional federal privacy and security requirements, including breach
notification, improved enforcement and additional limitations on use and disclosure of protected health information were passed through the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH, Act provisions of the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and corresponding implementing regulations. CMS posted the Interim Final Rule with Comment, or IFC, adopting operating rules for two electronic transactions: eligibility for a health plan and health care claims
status. Based on the comments received on the IFC, CMS has decided not to change any of the policies established in the rule. Thus, the interim final rule became the final rule. The rule had a January 1, 2013 compliance date and we believe we
have effectively complied with the requirements of the new rule.



The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally places restrictions on the disclosure of non-public information to non-affiliated third parties, and requires financial institutions, including insurers, to
provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal information is used, including an opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures. State departments of insurance and certain federal agencies adopted implementing
regulations as required by federal law. In addition, a number of states have adopted data security laws and/or regulations, regulating data security and/or requiring security breach notification, which may apply to us in certain
circumstances.



Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974



The provision of
services to certain employee welfare benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, a complex set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation and enforcement by the Internal Revenue
Service and the Department of Labor. ERISA regulates certain aspects of the relationships between us, the employers that maintain employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Some of our administrative services and
other activities may also be subject to regulation under ERISA. In addition, certain states require licensure or registration of companies providing third party claims administration services for benefit plans. We provide a variety of products and
services to employee welfare benefit plans that are covered by ERISA. Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws and the question of whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law has been, and will continue to be, interpreted
by many courts.



HMO and Insurance Holding
Company Laws, including Risk-Based Capital Requirements



We are regulated as an insurance holding company and are subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company and HMO subsidiaries are domiciled. These acts contain
certain reporting requirements as well as restrictions on transactions between an insurer or HMO and its affiliates. These holding company laws and regulations generally require insurance companies and HMOs within an insurance holding company system
to register with the insurance department of each state where they are domiciled and to







file with those states’ insurance departments certain reports describing capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations.
In addition, various notice and reporting requirements generally apply to transactions between insurance companies and HMOs and their affiliates within an insurance holding company system, depending on the size and nature of the transactions. Some
insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval or, in certain circumstances, prior notice of certain material intercompany transfers of assets as well as certain transactions between insurance companies, HMOs, their
parent holding companies and affiliates. Among other provisions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.



Additionally, the holding company acts of the states in which
our subsidiaries are domiciled restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting
security of an insurance holding company, which controls an insurance company or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would “control” the insurance holding company. “Control”
is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of
another person.



The states of domicile of our
regulated subsidiaries have statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other insurance companies and HMOs based on the RBC Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to assess the capital adequacy of life and health
insurers and HMOs, taking into account the risk characteristics of a company’s investments and products. In general, under these laws, an insurance company or HMO must submit a report of its RBC level to the insurance department or insurance
commissioner of its state of domicile for each calendar year. The law requires increasing degrees of regulatory oversight and intervention as a company’s RBC declines. As of December 31, 2012, the RBC levels of our insurance and HMO
subsidiaries exceeded all RBC thresholds.



Guaranty Fund Assessments



Under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for amounts paid by guaranty funds for
policyholder losses incurred when an insurance company becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty association laws currently provide for assessments based upon the amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within such state
(with a minimum amount payable even if no premium is received). Under many of these guaranty association laws, assessments against insurance companies that issue policies of accident or sickness insurance are made retrospectively. Some states permit
insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets or through future policyholder assessments.



While the amount and timing of any future assessments cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that future guaranty association
assessments for insurer insolvencies will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources with the exception of potential exposure related to the Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Company and its subsidiary American
Network Insurance Company insolvency as discussed in Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies”, to our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012, included in this Form 10-K.



Employees



At December 31, 2012, we had approximately 43,500 employees. Our employees are an important asset, and we
seek to develop them to their full potential. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good.



Available Information



We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide
certain







information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website iswww.wellpoint.com. We have included our Internet website address throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K as textual reference only. The information contained on our Internet website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We make available, free of charge, by mail or through our Internet website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. We also include on our Internet website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Standards of
Ethical Business Conduct and the charter of each standing committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct that are required
to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. WellPoint, Inc. is an Indiana corporation incorporated on July 17, 2001.



