ITEM 1.Business



General



Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the “Company” or
    “ITW”) was founded in 1912 and incorporated in 1915.
    The Company is a multinational manufacturer of a diversified
    range of industrial products and equipment with approximately
    840 operations in 57 countries. These 840 businesses are
    internally reported as 60 operating segments to senior
    management. The Company’s 60 operating segments have been
    aggregated into the following eight external reportable segments:



Transportation:Businesses in this
    segment produce components, fasteners, fluids and polymers, as
    well as truck remanufacturing and related parts and service.



In the Transportation segment, products and services include:



•metal and plastic components, fasteners and assemblies for
    automobiles and light trucks;•fluids and polymers for auto aftermarket maintenance and
    appearance;•fillers and putties for auto body repair;•polyester coatings and patch and repair products for the marine
    industry; and•truck remanufacturing and related parts and service.



Industrial Packaging:Businesses in
    this segment produce steel, plastic and paper products and
    equipment used for bundling, shipping and protecting goods in
    transit.



In the Industrial Packaging segment, products include:



•steel and plastic strapping and related tools and equipment;•plastic stretch film and related equipment;•paper and plastic products that protect goods in
    transit; and•metal jacketing and other insulation products.



Food Equipment:Businesses in this
    segment produce commercial food equipment and related service.



In the Food Equipment segment, products and services include:



•warewashing equipment;•cooking equipment, including ovens, ranges and broilers;•refrigeration equipment, including refrigerators, freezers and
    prep tables;•food processing equipment, including slicers, mixers and scales;•kitchen exhaust, ventilation and pollution control
    systems; and•food equipment service, maintenance and repair.



Power Systems &
    Electronics:Businesses in this segment
    produce equipment and consumables associated with specialty
    power conversion, metallurgy and electronics.



In the Power Systems & Electronics segment, products
    include:



•arc welding equipment;•metal arc welding consumables and related accessories;•metal solder materials for PC board fabrication;•equipment and services for microelectronics assembly;•electronic components and component packaging; and•airport ground support equipment.



Construction Products:Businesses in
    this segment produce tools, fasteners and other products for
    construction applications.



In the Construction Products segment, products include:



•fasteners and related fastening tools for wood and metal
    applications;





•anchors, fasteners and related tools for concrete applications;•metal plate truss components and related equipment and
    software; and•packaged hardware, fasteners, anchors and other products for
    retail.



Polymers & Fluids:Businesses
    in this segment produce adhesives, sealants, lubrication and
    cutting fluid, and hygiene products.



In the Polymers & Fluids segment, products include:



•adhesives for industrial, construction and consumer purposes;•chemical fluids that clean or add lubrication to machines;•epoxy and resin-based coating products for industrial
    applications;•hand wipes and cleaners for industrial applications; and•pressure-sensitive adhesives and components for
    telecommunications, electronics, medical and transportation
    applications.



Decorative Surfaces:Businesses in this
    segment produce decorative surfacing materials for furniture,
    office and retail space, countertops, flooring and other
    applications.



In the Decorative Surfaces segment, products include:



•decorative high-pressure laminate for furniture, office and
    retail space, and countertops;•high-pressure laminate flooring; and•high-pressure laminate worktops.



All Other:This segment includes all
    other operating segments.



In the All Other segment, products include:



•equipment and related software for testing and measuring of
    materials and structures;•plastic reclosable packaging for consumer food storage;•plastic reclosable bags for storage of clothes and home goods;•plastic consumables that multi-pack cans and bottles and related
    equipment;•plastic fasteners and components for appliances, furniture and
    industrial uses;•metal fasteners and components for appliances and industrial
    applications;•swabs, wipes and mats for clean room usage;•foil, film and related equipment used to decorate consumer
    products;•product coding and marking equipment and related consumables;•paint spray and adhesive dispensing equipment;•static and contamination control equipment; and•line integration, conveyor systems and line automation for the
    food and beverage industries.



80/20
    Business Process



A key element of the Company’s business strategy is its
    continuous 80/20 business process for both existing businesses
    and new acquisitions. The basic concept of this 80/20 business
    process is to focus on what is most important (the 20% of the
    items which account for 80% of the value) and to spend less time
    and resources on the less important (the 80% of the items which
    account for 20% of the value). The Company’s operations use
    this 80/20 business process to simplify and focus on the key
    parts of their business, and as a result, reduce complexity that
    often disguises what is truly important. The Company’s 840
    operations utilize the 80/20 process in various aspects of their
    business. Common applications of the 80/20 business process
    include:



•Simplifying product lines by reducing the number of products
    offered by combining the features of similar products,
    outsourcing products or, as a last resort, eliminating low-value
    products.•Segmenting the customer base by focusing on the 80/20 customers
    separately and finding alternative ways to serve the 20/80
    customers.•Simplifying the supplier base by partnering with 80/20 suppliers
    and reducing the number of 20/80 suppliers.•Designing business processes, systems and measurements around
    the 80/20 activities.







The result of the application of this 80/20 business process is
    that the Company has over time improved its long-term operating
    and financial performance. These 80/20 efforts can result in
    restructuring projects that reduce costs and improve margins.
    Corporate management works closely with those businesses that
    have operating results below expectations to help those
    businesses better apply this 80/20 business process and improve
    their results.



Discontinued
    Operations



In August 2008, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized
    the divestiture of the Click Commerce industrial software
    business which was previously reported in the All Other segment.
    In the second quarter of 2009, the Company completed the sale of
    the Click Commerce business.



In 2006, the Company divested a construction business. In 2007,
    the Company divested an automotive machinery business and a
    consumer packaging business. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the
    Company classified an automotive components business and a
    second consumer packaging business as held for sale. The second
    consumer packaging business was sold in 2008. The Company
    completed the divestiture of the automotive components business
    in 2009.



Additionally, in August 2008, the Company’s Board of
    Directors authorized the divestiture of the Decorative Surfaces
    segment which was subsequently classified as a discontinued
    operation. In May 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors
    rescinded its earlier resolution to divest the Decorative
    Surfaces segment and, accordingly, all periods presented have
    been restated to present the Decorative Surfaces segment as a
    continuing operation.



Current
    Year Developments



Refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



Financial
    Information about Segments and Markets



Segment and operating results of the segments are included in
    Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Segment
    Information note in Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data.



The principal end markets served by the Company’s eight
    segments by percentage of revenue are as follows:



PowerTranspor-IndustrialFoodSystems &ConstructionPolymersDecorativeAllTotalEnd Markets ServedtationPackagingEquipmentElectronicsProducts& FluidsSurfacesOtherCompanyCommercial Construction1%8%—%6%26%11%55%1%10%Residential Construction—2—147215—7Renovation Construction————24128—5General Industrial32914613112518Automotive OEM/Tiers56——2—4—410Automotive Aftermarket28——1—7—15Food Institutional/Restaurant——47——1——6Food Service——32——2—25Food Retail—115————33Consumer Durables12—1—3—143Food & Beverage—121——3—165Electronics—1—16—5—54Primary Metals—20—112—13Other112542612812816100%100%100%100%100%100%100%100%100%





The Company’s businesses primarily distribute their
    products directly to industrial manufacturers and through
    independent distributors.





Backlog



Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in the
    Company’s businesses as relatively short delivery periods
    and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic of most of its
    products. Backlog by segment as of December 31, 2009 and
    2008 is summarized as follows:



In Thousands20092008Transportation$231,000$237,000Industrial Packaging123,000158,000Food Equipment179,000220,000Power Systems & Electronics129,000124,000Construction Products24,00032,000Polymers & Fluids73,00081,000Decorative Surfaces19,00028,000All Other341,000351,000Total$1,119,000$1,231,000





Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond calendar year 2010
    were not material as of December 31, 2009.



The information set forth below is applicable to all industry
    segments of the Company unless otherwise noted:



Competition



With approximately 840 business units operating in 57 countries,
    the Company has a wide diversity of products in a myriad of
    markets, many of which are fragmented, and we encounter a wide
    variety of competitors that vary by product line, end market and
    geographic area. Our competitors include many regional or
    specialized companies, as well as large U.S. andnon-U.S. companiesor divisions of large companies. Each of our segments generally
    has several main competitors and numerous smaller ones in most
    of their end markets and geographic areas. In addition, our
    Decorative Surfaces and Power Systems & Electronics
    segments each has one global competitor and numerous smaller
    regional competitors.



In virtually all segments, we compete on the basis of product
    innovation, product quality, brand preference, delivery service
    and price. Technical capability is also a competitive factor in
    most of our segments. We believe that for each of our segments,
    our primary competitive advantages derive from our decentralized
    operating structure, which creates a strong focus on end markets
    and customers at the local level, enabling our businesses to
    respond rapidly to market dynamics. This structure enables our
    business units to drive operational excellence utilizing our
    80/20 business process and leverages our product innovation
    capabilities. We also believe that our global footprint is a
    competitive advantage in many of our markets, especially in our
    Transportation and Decorative Surfaces segments.



Raw
    Materials



The Company uses raw materials of various types, primarily
    steel, resins, chemicals and paper, that are available from
    numerous commercial sources. The availability of materials and
    energy has not resulted in any significant business
    interruptions or other major problems, and no such problems are
    currently anticipated.



Research
    and Development



The Company’s growth has resulted from developing new and
    improved products, broadening the application of established
    products, continuing efforts to improve and develop new methods,
    processes and equipment, and from acquisitions. Many new
    products are designed to reduce customers’ costs by
    eliminating steps in their manufacturing processes, reducing the
    number of parts in an assembly, or by





improving the quality of customers’ assembled products.
    Typically, the development of such products is accomplished by
    working closely with customers on specific applications.
    Research and development expenses were $198,536,000 in 2009,
    $212,658,000 in 2008 and $197,595,000 in 2007.



The Company owns approximately 3,800 unexpired United States
    patents covering articles, methods and machines. Many
    counterparts of these patents have also been obtained in various
    foreign countries. In addition, the Company has approximately
    1,700 applications for patents pending in the United States
    Patent Office, but there is no assurance that any patent will be
    issued. The Company maintains an active patent department for
    the administration of patents and processing of patent
    applications.



The Company believes that many of its patents are valuable and
    important. Nevertheless, the Company credits its leadership in
    the markets it serves to engineering capability; manufacturing
    techniques; skills and efficiency; marketing and sales
    promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to its
    customers. The expiration of any one of the Company’s
    patents would not have a material effect on the Company’s
    results of operations or financial position.



Trademarks



Many of the Company’s products are sold under various owned
    or licensed trademarks, which are important to the Company.
    Among the most significant are: ITW, Acme, Alpine, Anaerobicos,
    Angleboard, Apex, Arborite, Ark-Les, Avery Berkel, Avery
    Weigh-Tronix, Bernard, Betaprint, Binks, Buehler, Buildex,
    Bycotest, Chemtronics, Covid, Cullen, Deltar, Densit, Devcon,
    DeVilbiss, Dymon, Dynatec, Dynatruss, Electrocal, Euromere,
    Evercoat,E-ZAnchor,
    Fastex, Filtertek, Foilmark, Forte, Foster, Franklynn, Futura
    Coatings, Gamko, Gema, GSE, Gymcol, Hartness, Hi-Cone, Hobart,
    Instron, Intellibuild, Keps, Kester, Krafft, Lachenmeier, Lebo,
    Loma, LPS, Luvex, Magna, Magnaflux, Meyercord, Miller, Mima,
    Minigrip, Nexus, NorDen, Nylex, Orbitalum, Orgapack, Pacific
    Polymers, Paktron, Paslode, Peerless, Permatex, Plexus,
    Polymark, Polyrey, Pro/Mark, Pryda, QMI, QSA, Quipp, Racor,
    Ramset, Ransburg, Red Head, Resopal, Reyflex, Riderite, Rippey,
    Rockwell, Rocol, Sentinel, Shakeproof, Shore, Signode, Simco,
    Solplas, Sonotech, Space Bag, Spectrum, Speedline, Spiroid,
    SPIT, Spray Nine, Stero, Stokvis, Strapex, Tapcon, Teks, Tempil,
    Tenax, Texwipe, Traulsen, Tregaskiss, Truswal Systems, Trymer,
    Valeron, Versachem, Vitronics Soltec, Vulcan, Wachs, WERCS,
    Wilsonart, Wynn’s and Zip-Pak.



Environmental



The Company believes that its plants and equipment are in
    substantial compliance with all applicable environmental
    regulations. Additional measures to maintain compliance are not
    expected to materially affect the Company’s capital
    expenditures, competitive position, financial position or
    results of operations.



Various legislative and administrative regulations concerning
    environmental issues have become effective or are under
    consideration in many parts of the world relating to
    manufacturing processes and the sale or use of certain products.
    To date, such developments have not had a substantial adverse
    impact on the Company’s revenues or earnings. The Company
    has made considerable efforts to develop and sell
    environmentally compatible products.



Employees



The Company employed approximately 59,000 persons as of
    December 31, 2009 and considers its employee relations to
    be excellent.



International



The Company’s international operations include subsidiaries
    and joint ventures in 56 foreign countries on six continents.
    These operations serve such end markets as construction, general
    industrial, automotive, food institutional/restaurant and
    service, food and beverage, electronics, consumer durables,
    primary metals, and others on a worldwide basis. The
    Company’s revenues from sales to customers outside the
    United States were approximately 57% of revenues in 2009, 58% of
    revenues in 2008 and 55% of revenues in 2007.





Refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Segment
    Information note in Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data for additional information on international
    activities. International operations are subject to certain
    risks inherent in conducting business in foreign countries,
    including price controls, exchange controls, limitations on
    participation in local enterprises, nationalization,
    expropriation and other governmental action, and changes in
    currency exchange rates. Additional risks of our international
    operations are described under “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors.”



Executive
    Officers



Executive Officers of the Company as of February 26, 2010
    were as follows:



NameOfficeAgeSharon M. BradySenior Vice President, Human Resources59Robert E. BrunnerExecutive Vice President52Timothy J. GardnerExecutive Vice President54Philip M. Gresh, Jr.Executive Vice President61Thomas J. HansenVice Chairman61Craig A. HindmanExecutive Vice President55Ronald D. KroppSenior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer44Roland M. MartelExecutive Vice President55Steven L. MartindaleExecutive Vice President53David C. ParryExecutive Vice President56E. Scott SantiVice Chairman48Randall J. ScheunemanVice President & Chief Accounting Officer42David B. SpeerChairman & Chief Executive Officer58Allan C. SutherlandSenior Vice President, Taxes & Investments46Juan VallsExecutive Vice President48Jane L. WarnerExecutive Vice President63James H. Wooten, Jr.Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate
    Secretary61









appointed Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009.
    Prior to joining the Company in 2009, he held several financial
    leadership positions at W.W. Grainger, Inc., including Vice
    President, Finance, for the Lab Safety Supply business from 2006
    to 2009, and Vice President, Internal Audit, from 2002 to 2006.
    He was appointed Principal Accounting Officer in 2009.
    Mr. Valls was elected Executive Vice President in 2007.
    Prior to this, he was Vice President and General Manager of ITW
    Delfast International. He joined the Company in 1989 and has
    held various management positions in the European automotive
    businesses. Mr. Wooten was elected Senior Vice President,
    General Counsel & Corporate Secretary in 2006. He
    joined the Company in 1988 and has held positions of increasing
    responsibility in the legal department.



Available
    Information



The Company electronically files reports with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any
    materials the Company has filed with the SEC at the SEC’s
    Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information
    on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
    at1-800-SEC-0330.In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site
    (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and
    information statements, and other information regarding issuers
    that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of the
    Company’s Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Qand Current Reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are also available free of charge through the
    Company’s website (www.itw.com), as soon as
    reasonably practicable after electronically filing with or
    otherwise furnishing such information to the SEC, and are
    available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Also
    posted on the Company’s website are the following:



•Statement of Principles of Conduct;•Code of Ethics for CEO and key financial and accounting
    personnel;•Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating and
    Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors; and•Corporate Governance Guidelines.





