ITEM 1.Business.

Overview

Discovery Communications, Inc. (“Discovery”, “we”, “us” or “our”) is a leading
global media and entertainment company. We were formed on September 17, 2008, in connection with Discovery Holding Company (“DHC”) and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership (“Advance/Newhouse”) combining their respective
ownership interests in Discovery Communications Holding, LLC (“DCH”) and exchanging those interests with and into Discovery. Prior to September 17, 2008, DCH was a stand-alone private company, which was owned approximately 662/3% by DHC and 331/3% by Advance/Newhouse. As a result of this transaction we became the
successor reporting entity to DHC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

As one of the
world’s largest nonfiction media companies, we provide original and purchased programming across multiple distribution platforms in the United States (“U.S.”) and more than 170 other countries. Led by the flagship Discovery Channel,
one of the first nonfiction cable networks and our most widely distributed global brand, Discovery enables people to explore the world and satisfy their curiosity through more than 100 worldwide networks offering customized programming in 38
languages. In addition to Discovery Channel, our global portfolio includes prominent television brands such as TLC, Animal Planet, Science Channel, Investigation Discovery, Planet Green, Discovery Travel and Living, Discovery Home and Health and HD
Theater, as well as leading consumer and educational products and services, and a diversified portfolio of digital media services including HowStuffWorks.com.

Our media content spans genres including science, exploration, survival, natural history, sustainability of the environment, technology, anthropology, paleontology, history, space, archaeology, health and
wellness, engineering, adventure, lifestyles and current events. This type of programming tends to be culturally neutral and maintains its relevance for an extended period of time. As a result, our content translates well across international
borders and is made even more accessible through extensive use of dubbing and subtitles in local languages, as well as the creation of local programming tailored to individual market preferences.

Our content is designed to target key audience demographics and the popularity of our programming offers a reason for advertisers to
purchase time on our channels. Our audience ratings are a key driver in generating advertising revenue and creating demand on the part of cable television operators, direct-to-home (“DTH”) satellite operators and other content distributors
to deliver our programming to their customers.

We have an extensive library of programming and footage that provides a source
of content for creating new services and launching into new markets and onto new platforms. Generally, we own most or all rights to the majority of this programming and footage, which enables us to exploit our library to launch new brands and
services into new markets quickly without significant incremental spending. Our programming can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world.

In addition to growing distribution and advertising revenue for our branded channels, we are focused on extending content distribution
across new distribution platforms, including brand-aligned web properties, mobile devices, video-on-demand and broadband channels, which provide promotional platforms for our television programming and serve as additional outlets for advertising and
affiliate sales. We also operate internet sites including HowStuffWorks.com, Petfinder.com, and Treehugger.com that provide supplemental news, information and entertainment aligned with our television programming.

We also are utilizing our programming assets to take advantage of the growing demand for high definition (“HD”) programming in the
U.S. and throughout the world. In 2009, we provided HD simulcasts of six of our U.S. Networks (Discovery Channel, TLC, Animal Planet, Science Channel, Investigation Discovery and Planet Green), in addition to our stand-alone U.S. HD
Theater channel. In 2009, we also expanded our international HD operations to include HD channels (Discovery HD, Animal Planet HD and TLC HD) in 61 markets outside of the U.S., making us one of the leading international providers of HD programming,
based on the number of markets we serve. We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of the accelerating growth in sales of HD televisions and the expanding distribution of HD channels around the world. Where we operate HD simulcasts of our
networks, we also benefit from the ability to aggregate standard and HD audiences for advertising sales purposes. In January 2010, we announced our intent to form a joint venture with Sony Corporation and IMAX Corporation to launch a 24-hours-a-day,
7-days-a-week, three-dimensional (“3-D”) channel in the U.S., positioning us to capitalize on the recent success of 3-D feature films and projected growth in sales of 3-D television sets.

Our strategy is to deliver sustainable long-term growth through the development of high-quality media brands that build consumer viewership,
optimize distribution revenue and capture advertising sales. In addition, we are focused on maximizing the overall efficiency and effectiveness of our global operations through collaboration and innovation across operating units and regions around
the world, and across all television and digital media.







In line with this strategy, our specific priorities include:



•Maintaining our focus on creative excellence in nonfiction programming and expanding the portfolio’s brand entitlement by developing compelling
content that promotes audience growth, builds advertising relationships and has global utility.



•Leveraging our distribution strength in the U.S. — with three channels each reaching more than 95 million subscribers in the U.S. and
Canada and five channels each reaching between 50 million and 75 million subscribers in the U.S. and Canada — to create or reposition additional branded channels and businesses that can sustain long-term growth and occupy a
desired programming niche with strong consumer appeal.



•Increasing the value of our distribution strength outside of the U.S. – with at least two channels in more than 170 countries around the world
– to maintain a leadership position in nonfiction entertainment in international markets and build additional branded channels and businesses that can sustain long-term growth. This includes expanding local advertising sales capabilities,
creating licensing and digital growth opportunities, utilizing broadcast and other additional distribution opportunities in select markets, and leveraging operating efficiencies through development and promotional collaboration between the
U.S. Networks and International Networks segments.



•Developing and growing compelling content experiences on new platforms that are aligned with our core branded channels. Specifically, extending
ownership of nonfiction entertainment to new platforms and technologies around the world to satisfy viewers’ curiosity and enhance the consumer entertainment experience, provide new cross-platform sales and promotional opportunities with our
television networks, and create additional reach for our content by leveraging the economies realized through programs that can be produced once and used often in both long-term and short-term formats.

Recent Developments

Accounting for
Variable Interest Entities

Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s
(“FASB”) statement amending the accounting for interests in a variable interest entity (“VIE”). Pursuant to the adoption of this statement, beginning January 1, 2010, we will no longer consolidate the Oprah Winfrey Network
(“OWN”) and Animal Planet Japan (“APJ”) joint ventures and will account for our interest in these entities under the equity method of accounting. However, we continued to consolidate OWN and APJ through December 31, 2009.
Accordingly, the financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes the financial position and operating results of OWN and APJ for 2009 and 2008. Beginning in 2010, we will apply the provisions of the new statement retrospectively to
financial information for all periods presented by recasting prior period results to conform to the new presentation. Additional financial information related to OWN and APJ as well as the impact of adopting the new statement is set forth in
Item 7 and Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Reportable Segments

Effective January 1, 2010, we realigned the Discovery Commerce business from
the Commerce, Education, and Other reporting segment into the U.S. Networks reporting segment. In connection with this realignment we changed the name of our Commerce, Education, and Other reporting segment to Education and Other. The financial
information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K has not been recast to reflect the realignment. Accordingly, the results of operations for the Discovery Commerce business are included in the financial results for the Commerce, Education, and Other
segment. Beginning in 2010, we will include the Discovery Commerce business in the financial results for the U.S. Networks segment and will recast prior period results to conform to the new presentation.

Hasbro-Discovery Joint Venture

On May 22, 2009, we formed a 50-50 joint venture with Hasbro, Inc. (“Hasbro”) that will operate a television network and website dedicated to high-quality children’s and family
entertainment and educational programming. In connection with the arrangement, Discovery contributed the U.S. Discovery Kids Network (“Discovery Kids”) to the joint venture. Additionally, Hasbro acquired a 50% ownership interest in the
joint venture for a cash payment of $300 million and a tax receivables agreement collectible over 20 years valued at $57 million, which resulted in a total gain of $252 million. The rebranded network, the Hub, is scheduled to
premiere in late 2010. Additional information regarding the joint venture is set forth in Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.







Discovery Commerce Business

In April 2009, we completed the transition of our commerce business to a licensing model by outsourcing the commerce direct-to-consumer
operations including our commerce website, related marketing, product development and fulfillment to a third party in exchange for royalties. The new structure for our commerce business enables us to continue offering high quality DVD programming as
well as many merchandise categories leveraging both licensed and make and sell products.

Segment Information

In 2009, we operated through three segments: (1) U.S. Networks, (2) International Networks, and (3) Commerce, Education,
and Other. Financial information related to our operating segments is set forth in Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements found in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

U.S. Networks

Reaching approximately 724 million cumulative subscribers (defined below) primarily in the U.S. as of December 31, 2009, and having one of the industry’s most widely distributed portfolios of brands, U.S. Networks
delivers 11 cable and satellite television channels primarily in the U.S. The portfolio includes three channels that each reach more than 95 million subscribers (defined below) and five channels that each reach between 50 and 75 million
subscribers.

Our U.S. networks are wholly-owned except for Discovery Kids, which is operated through a 50-50 joint
venture between us and Hasbro. Currently, we own and operate the Discovery Health Channel. However, pursuant to our joint venture arrangement for OWN, we will contribute our interest in the Discovery Health Channel to OWN, which is expected to occur
in 2011.

Subscriber numbers set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include both wholly-owned networks and networks
operated by joint ventures and are according to The Nielsen Company, except for Discovery Kids, Planet Green, FitTV and HD Theater, where Nielsen data is either not available and/or internal data are used. As used herein, a “subscriber” is
a single household that receives the applicable Discovery channel from its cable television operator, DTH satellite operator, or other television provider, including those who receive our networks from pay-television providers without charge
pursuant to various pricing plans that include free periods and/or free carriage. The term “cumulative subscribers” refers to the collective sum of the total number of subscribers to each of our channels. By way of example, two households
that each receive five of our networks from their television provider represent two subscribers, but 10 cumulative subscribers.

The networks operated by the U.S. Networks segment include:



Discovery Channel• Discovery Channel reached approximately 100 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2009.• Discovery
Channel is dedicated to creating high-quality nonfiction content that informs and entertains viewers about the wonder and diversity of the world. The network offers a mix of genres including science and technology, exploration, adventure,
history and in-depth, behind-the-scenes glimpses at the people, places and organizations that shape and share our world.• Programming highlights on Discovery Channel includeDeadliest Catch, MythBusters, Dirty Jobs, Man Vs. Wild, Storm
Chasers, Swamp Loggers,PitchmenandColony. Discovery Channel is also home to specials and mini-series, including the critically acclaimedPlanet Earth, When We Left Earth: The NASA MissionsandDiscovering Ardi.• Target viewers are adults ages 25-54, particularly men.• Discovery Channel is simulcast in HD.TLC• TLC reached approximately 99 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2009. TLC also
reached approximately 8 million subscribers in Canada, according to internal data.• TLC features
docu-series and reality-based programming about the lives of real-life extraordinary characters.







•Programming highlights on TLC includeCake Boss, Little Couple, What Not to Wear, Little People, Big World, Police Women
of Broward County, Say Yes to the Dress, LA Ink and 18 Kids and Counting.•Target viewers are adults ages 18-49, particularly women.•TLC is simulcast in HD.









Animal Planet• Animal Planet reached approximately 96 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2009.

• Animal
Planet provides a full range of programming related to life in the animal kingdom with content that offers animal lovers and pet owners access to a centralized online, television and mobile community for entertainment and
information.



• Programming highlights on Animal Planet includeWhale Wars, River Monsters,I’m Alive,Monsters Inside Me,Pit Bulls and ParoleesandDogs 101.



• Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.



• Animal Planet is simulcast in HD.



Discovery Health• Discovery Health reached approximately 74 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2009.

• Discovery
Health provides information that helps viewers better understand health and wellness issues. From pregnancy and parenting to diet and disease prevention, Discovery Health delivers real-life stories.



• In 2011, Discovery Health will be repositioned as OWN through a 50-50 joint venture between Discovery and Harpo,
Inc. OWN will be a multi-platform venture, including the OWN television network and Oprah.com, designed to entertain, inform and inspire people to live their best lives.

• OWN will
build on Discovery Health’s target audience of women ages 25-54.



Discovery Kids• Discovery Kids reached approximately 51 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2009.

• Discovery
Kids allows kids of all ages (from preschoolers to ‘tweens and teens) to explore the world from their point of view. The network provides programming that enables kids to learn about science, adventure, exploration and natural history through
documentaries, reality shows, scripted dramas and animated stories.



• In late 2010, Discovery Kids will be repositioned as THE HUB through a 50-50 joint venture between Discovery and
Hasbro. The network will feature original animation programming, game shows and live-action series and specials, including content drawn from Hasbro’s portfolio of entertainment and educational properties, content from Discovery’s
extensive library of award-winning children’s educational programming, and third-party acquisitions.

• Target
viewers are children ages 3-12 and families.









Science Channel•Science Channel reached approximately 62 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2009.

•Science Channel
immerses viewers in the possibilities of science, from string theory and futuristic cities to accidental discoveries and outrageous inventions. The network celebrates the trials, errors and moments that change our human
experience.

•Programming
highlights on Science Channel includeHow It’s Made,Space Week,Sci Fi Science: Physics of the Impossible,How Do They Do It?,Build It Bigger, andPunkin Chunkin.



•Target viewers are men ages 25-54.



•Science Channel is simulcast in HD.



Planet Green•Planet Green reached approximately 48 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2009.

•Planet Green
targets viewers who want to understand how humans impact the planet and how to live a more environmentally sustainable lifestyle. The network offers unique, original and insightful content related to how we can evolve to live a better, brighter
future.



•Programming highlights on Planet Green includeOperation Wild,Living with Ed,Conviction Kitchen,Blood, Sweat and Takeaways,Wasted, and theReel Impactweekly film series.



•Target viewers are adults ages 18-54.



•Planet Green is simulcast in HD.



Investigation Discovery•Investigation Discovery reached approximately 55 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2009.

•Investigation
Discovery is a source for fact-based investigative content about culture, history and the human condition, and provides investigative programming focused on stories of human nature from the past to the present, documentaries, and series that
challenge viewers on important issues shaping our culture and defining our world.



•Programming highlights on Investigation Discovery includeOn the Case with Paula Zahn,The Bureau,Disappeared, I (Almost) Got Away With It,andExtreme Forensics.



•Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.



•Investigation Discovery is simulcast in HD.



Military Channel•Military Channel reached approximately 55 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2009.

•Military Channel
brings viewers real-world stories of heroism, military strategy, technological breakthroughs and turning points in history. The network takes viewers “behind the lines” to hear the personal stories of servicemen and women and offers
in-depth explorations of military technology, battlefield strategy, aviation and history.



•Programming highlights on Military Channel includeAt Sea,Special Ops Mission,Great Planes, andTop Sniper.



•Target viewers are men ages 35-64.







FitTV• FitTV reached approximately 46 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2009.• FitTV is
designed to inspire viewers to improve their fitness and well-being on their terms. FitTV features approachable experts and shows that help real people learn how to incorporate fitness into their busy lives.• Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.HD Theater• HD Theater reached approximately 30 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2009.• HD Theater
was one of the first nationwide 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week high definition networks in the U.S. offering content in virtually all categories of entertainment from across Discovery’s family of networks. The network showcases programming about
adventure, nature, wildlife, history, travel, science and technology, world culture and more.• Programming highlights on HD Theater includeWorld Rally ChampionshipandMecum Auto Auctions: Muscle
Cars.• Target viewers are adults ages 25-54, particularly men.

U.S. Networks also includes our digital media businesses in the United States, which provide cross-platform sales and promotional
opportunities with our television networks and additional reach for our content by leveraging the economies realized through programs that can be produced once and used often in both long-term and short-term formats across multiple platforms.
Digital media features three main components:



•U.S. brand-aligned channel websites, such as Discovery.com, TLC.com and AnimalPlanet.com, and complementary stand-alone websites: HowStuffWorks.com, an
award-winning online source of explanations of how the world actually works; Treehugger.com, an eco-lifestyle website that complements the Planet Green television network; and Petfinder.com, a leading pet adoption destination that provides an
additional promotional platform for the Animal Planet brand. Together, these websites attracted an average of more than 36 million cumulative unique monthly visitors in 2009, according to internal data. Discovery also offers content through a
variety of online syndication partnerships.



•Discovery Mobile, which offers unique made-for-mobile short-form content and long-form episodes of popular titles through distribution arrangements
with the majority of mobile carriers in the U.S., as well as a collection of smartphone applications and direct-to-consumer mobile websites for multiple network brands including Discovery Channel, TLC, and Animal Planet.



•Discovery on-demand, a free video-on-demand service distributed across most major U.S. affiliates, which features full-length programming and
short-form content from Discovery’s portfolio of U.S. networks.

International Networks

Reaching approximately 685 million cumulative subscribers (defined below) in more than 170 countries outside the
U.S. as of December 31, 2009, International Networks operates one of the largest international multi-channel businesses in the media industry. International Networks distributes a diversified portfolio of 22 brands designed to meet the
needs of audiences, affiliates and advertisers across multiple regions and markets. The segment maximizes the use of shared content and our global programming pipeline in order to drive consumer engagement and efficiencies across all core brands,
and delivers locally targeted customized programming, on-air content and schedules in 38 languages via more than 100 localized feeds. International Networks encompasses four locally-managed regional operations covering all major foreign pay
television markets, including the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), Europe (excluding the U.K.), Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), Asia-Pacific, and Latin America, and has 29 international offices with regional headquarters located in
London, Miami and Singapore.

International subscriber statistics include both wholly-owned networks and networks operated by
joint ventures and are derived from internal data coupled with external sources when available. As used herein, an “international subscriber” is a single household that receives the applicable Discovery network or programming service from
its cable television operator, DTH satellite operator, or other television provider, including those who receive our networks from pay television providers without charge pursuant to various







pricing plans that include free periods and/or free carriage. The term “cumulative subscribers” outside the U.S. refers to the collective sum of the total number of international
subscribers to each of our international channels or programming services outside of the U.S. By way of example, two international households that each receive five of our networks from their television provider represent two subscribers, but
10 cumulative subscribers outside the U.S.

In addition to our cumulative subscribers noted above, we provide branded
programming blocks in China, which are generally provided without charge to third-party channels and represented approximately 279 million viewers as of December 31, 2009. Such viewers have been excluded from all subscriber amounts in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Our international networks are wholly owned by us except (1) the international Animal Planet
channels which are generally 50-50 joint ventures with the British Broadcasting Corporation (“BBC”), (2) People+Arts, which operates in Latin America and Iberia as a 50-50 joint venture with the BBC, and (3) several channels in
Canada and Japan, which operate as joint ventures with strategic local partners and which are not consolidated in our financial statements.

International Networks is a leader across international markets in factual multi-channel television. The portfolio consists largely of global brands led by Discovery Channel and Animal Planet, which each
reach more than 100 million homes in international markets. Newer global digital brands in the factual portfolio include Discovery Science, which is distributed in more than 90 countries, ID: Investigation Discovery, Discovery Turbo and
Discovery World. In addition, International Networks offers HD channels for Discovery, Animal Planet and TLC in 61 international markets and is one of the industry’s leading international providers of HD.

The networks operated by the International Networks segment include:





Network BrandSubscribersNetwork Overview

Discovery Channel187 million subscribersDiscovery Channel’s international programming includes documentaries, docudramas and reality formats covering topics and themes, including human adventure and exploration,
engineering, science, history and world culture.

Animal Planet141 million subscribersAnimal Planet is the world’s only brand that immerses viewers in content devoted to animals.

Discovery Travel & Living87 million subscribersDiscovery Travel & Living provides content for adults who want to experience the best the world has to offer by providing an eclectic mix of programming on travel, food, design
and décor.

DMAX43 million subscribersIn Germany, DMAX targets a younger male audience with a mix of fiction and nonfiction content. It has broad distribution throughout the
country’s cable systems, reaching approximately 85% of cable homes, but does not get subscription fees and is therefore wholly dependent on advertising revenue.In the U.K., DMAX is a broad-based service that combines fiction and non-fiction content. It is distributed without a subscription fee by both major
distributors in the U.K., but is positioned in the Entertainment section of the electronic program guide of Sky, the largest distributor, and is intended to be a strong advertising sales vehicle because of the concentration of viewership in
Entertainment channels.

Discovery Science41 million subscribersDiscovery Science network features programming that uncovers the impact of science and technology.

Discovery Home & Health36 million subscribersDiscovery Home & Health targets women who strive to be the very best they can be in all the many demanding roles they play.

Discovery Kids28 million subscribersOne of the leading channels in Latin America among preschoolers and women, Discovery Kids provides a unique environment that nurtures children’s curiosity and encourages
life-long learning.

ID: Investigation Discovery10 million subscribersID: Investigation Discovery offers programming that focuses on the science of forensics and uses dramatic, fact-based storytelling to provide in-depth analysis of investigations.

HD Services6 million subscribersOne of the leading international providers of HD networks, International Networks offers HD services in 61 international markets including Discovery HD, Animal Planet HD, TLC HD and
a Discovery Channel HD simulcast service in Japan and Italy.







International Networks also distributes specialized brands developed for individual regions
and markets to 106 million subscribers including Discovery Knowledge, Shed and Quest in the U.K.; Discovery Civilization and People + Arts in Latin America and Iberia; Discovery Real Time in the U.K., Italy and France; and Discovery Historia in
Poland. In addition, International Networks distributes two Spanish-language networks, Discovery en Espanol and Discovery Familia, that are distributed to a combined 10 million U.S. subscribers.

International Networks also operates Antenna Audio, which is the leading provider of audio, multimedia and mobile tours for museums,
exhibitions, historic sites and visitor attractions around the world. More than 19 million visitors take Antenna Audio tours in various languages at well-known and frequented locations each year, including museums such as the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, the Musée du Louvre and Tate; historic and cultural sites including Graceland and Alcatraz; and popular destinations such as the Statue of Liberty and Vatican.

Commerce, Education, and Other

Commerce

Commerce plays an important role in support of our overall
strategic objectives by enhancing viewer loyalty through direct interaction with our brands. Commerce is focused on extending our on-air brands and increasing the reach of our products through our e-commerce platform and licensing arrangements.
Commerce’s platforms include:



•Direct-to-Consumer: includes a printed catalog and theDiscoveryStore.come-commerce site where customers can shop for a large assortment
of our proprietary merchandise and other products. During the first quarter of 2009, we entered into a licensing agreement with a third party for the direct-to-consumer component of our commerce business that includes a catalog and e-commerce
platform. Under the agreement, we receive royalties for merchandise sales and wholesale payments for DVDs sold, while the third party has assumed management and operational responsibility for theDiscoveryStore.comwebsite and product
development and fulfillment responsibility for merchandise.



•Domestic Licensing and Merchandising: includes agreements with key manufacturers and retailers, including Merchsource, Trau & Loevner,
GAP Adventures, JAKKS, Toys R Us and others to develop long-term, strategic programs that translate our network brands and signature properties into an array of merchandising opportunities. From Animal Planet toy and pet products,Mythbustersbooks, DVDs and calendars toLA Inkapparel and accessories, domestic licensing develops products that capture the look and feel of our core brands and programs.

Domestic home video/DVD licensing and merchandising also includes a strategic partnership with Gaiam, a video distributor. Gaiam distributes
Discovery’s high-quality on-air content in standard and Blu-ray format to mass and niche retailers, including Walmart, Target and Borders.

Education

Education offers a suite of curriculum-based tools
designed to foster student achievement, as well as enhancement resources such as student assessment services, professional development and a nationwide educator community that promotes the integration of digital media and technology in the
classroom. Education services include:



•Discovery Education Streaming:an online video-on-demand service that features over 10,000 digital videos and over 75,000 content-specific video
clips correlated to state K-12 curriculum standards. The service is made available through subscription services to over 55,000 public and private K-12 schools serving teachers nationwide.



•Discovery Education Assessment:a service that enables K-12 educators to measure student progress toward meeting state reading/language arts,
math and science standards on an ongoing basis, provide differentiated instruction, predict student performance, and improve student learning.







Education also works with corporate partners to create sponsored supplemental curriculum
programs and to support education-based student initiatives, such as the Discovery Education 3M Young Scientist Challenge and the Siemens We Can Change the World Challenge.

Education also publishes and distributes content on DVD and CD-ROM through catalogs, an online teacher store, and a network of distributors,
participates in global licensing and sponsorship programs with corporate partners to create supplemental curriculum programs and to support education-based student initiatives and supports our digital initiatives by providing educational content in
multiple formats that meet the needs of teachers and students.

Other

Our Creative Sound Services (“CSS”) business provides post-production sound, music, mixing sound effects and other related services
to major motion picture studios, independent producers, broadcast networks, cable channels, advertising agencies and interactive producers. CSS services are marketed under the brand names Todd-AO, Sound One, Soundelux, POP Sound, Modern Music,
Soundelux Design Music Group and The Hollywood Edge, with facilities in Los Angeles, New York and London.

Content Development

Our content development strategy is designed to increase viewership, maintain innovation and quality leadership, and
provide value for our distributors and advertising customers. Our production agreements fall into three categories: commissions, co-productions and acquisitions. Commissions refer to programming for which we generally own most or all rights for at
least 10 years and, in exchange for paying all production costs, retain all editorial control. Co-productions refer to programs where we retain significant (but more limited) rights to exploit the programs. The rights retained by us are
generally in proportion to the total project costs we pay or incur, which generally ranges from 35% to 75% of the total project cost. Co-productions are typically high-cost projects for which neither we nor our co-producers wish to bear the entire
cost or productions in which the producer has already taken on an international broadcast partner. Acquisitions are license agreements for films or series that have already been produced.

As network distribution and revenues have grown, our program mix has matured from acquired content to sharing in co-productions to full
commissions. To minimize programming expense in the early stages, as an audience base begins to form, we use acquired programming to a greater extent and repeat it frequently. The transition from acquired content provides for more customized use of
programming for individual networks and broader rights for re-use on television networks and new platforms.

We source content
from a wide range of producers, building long-standing relationships with some of the world’s leading nonfiction production companies, as well as consistently developing and encouraging young independent producers.

The programming schedule on our most widely distributed networks is mostly a mix of high-cost “special event” programming combined
with miniseries and regular series. Large-scale programming events such asPlanet Earth,When We Left Earth: The NASA Missions,Nefertiti Resurrected,andWalking With Cavemenbring brand prestige, favorable media
coverage and substantial cross-promotional opportunities for other content platforms. Given the success of these global programming “tent-poles” we will continue to invest in a mix of programs that have the potential to draw larger
audiences while also increasing the investment in regularly scheduled series.

We have an extensive library of programming and
footage that provides a high-quality source of programming for debuting new services quickly without significant incremental spending. Programming can be re-edited and updated to provide topical versions of subject matter in a cost-effective manner.
Library development also provides a mechanism to share content around the world and repurpose for display on new digital and mobile platforms.

Sources of Revenue

We earn revenue principally from (1) the receipt of affiliate fees from the delivery
of nonfiction programming pursuant to affiliation agreements with cable television operators, DTH satellite operators, and other distributors of television programming, (2) advertising sales on our television networks and websites, and
(3) product, subscription sales and services in the commerce, education and media sound services businesses. No single customer represented more than 10% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009.







Distribution Revenues

Distribution revenues represented 49% of our consolidated total revenues in 2009. Distribution revenue in the U.S. represented 46% of
U.S. Networks revenue, and international distribution fees represented 61% of International Networks revenue in 2009. Distribution revenue is generated through affiliation agreements with cable operators, DTH satellite operators, and other
television distributors, which typically have a term of three to seven years. These affiliation agreements generally provide for the level of carriage our networks will receive, such as channel placement and package inclusion (whether on more widely
distributed, broader packages or lesser-distributed, specialized packages), and for payment of a fee to us based on the numbers of subscribers that receive our networks. Upon the launch of a new channel, we may initially pay distributors to carry
such channel (such payments are referred to as “launch incentives”), or may provide the channel to the distributor for free for a predetermined length of time. We have long-term contracts with distributors representing most cable and
satellite operators around the world, including the largest operators in the U.S. and major international distributors. In the U.S., over 90% of distribution revenue comes from the top 10 distributors, with whom we have agreements that expire
at various times in 2010 through 2017. Outside of the U.S., less than 50% of distribution revenue comes from the top 10 distributors.

Advertising Revenue

Advertising revenues comprised 41% of our consolidated total revenues in 2009.
Advertising revenue in the U.S. represented 51% of U.S. Networks revenue, and international advertising revenue represented 29% of International Networks revenue in 2009. We typically build network brands by securing as broad a subscriber
base as possible. After obtaining sufficient distribution to provide an attractive platform for advertising, we increase our investment in programming and marketing to build audience share and drive strong ratings performance in order to increase
advertising sales opportunities. Advertising revenue depends on the number of subscribers receiving the service, viewership demographics, the ability to sell commercial time over a group of networks, the brand appeal of the network and ratings as
determined by third-party research companies such as The Nielsen Company. Revenue from advertising is subject to seasonality, market-based variations, and general economic conditions. Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth
quarters. Revenue can also fluctuate due to the popularity of particular programs and viewership ratings. In some cases, advertising sales are subject to ratings guarantees that may require us to provide additional advertising time or refunds if the
guarantees are not met.

We sell advertising time in both the upfront and scatter markets. In the upfront market, advertisers
buy advertising time for the upcoming season, and by purchasing in advance, often receive discounted rates. In the scatter market, advertisers buy advertising time close to the time when the commercials will be run, and often pay a premium. The mix
between the upfront and scatter markets is based upon a number of factors such as pricing, demand for advertising time and economic conditions.

Our two largest networks, Discovery Channel and TLC, target key demographics that historically have been considered attractive to advertisers, notably viewers in the 18-54 age range who are viewed as
having significant spending power. Discovery Channel’s target audience skews toward male viewers, while TLC targets female viewers, providing a demographic balance in our portfolio for distribution and advertising clients.

We benefit by having a portfolio of networks appealing to a broad range of demographics. This allows us to create advertising packages that
exploit the strength of our large networks to benefit smaller niche or targeted networks and networks on digital tiers. Utilizing the strength of our diverse networks, coupled with our online and digital platforms, we seek to create innovative
programming initiatives and multifaceted campaigns for the benefit of a wide variety of companies and organizations who desire to reach key audience demographics unique to each network. We deliver customized, integrated marketing campaigns to
clients worldwide by catering to the special needs of multi-regional advertisers who are looking for integrated campaigns that move beyond traditional spot advertising to include sponsorships, product placements and other opportunities.

We also generate advertising revenue from our websites. We sell advertising on our websites both on a stand-alone basis and as part of
advertising packages with our television networks.

Commerce, Education, and Other Revenue

Commerce, education, and other revenues are principally generated from subscriptions to our educational streaming services, royalty payments
on the sale of products online and through catalogs, and other revenue including media sound services and representation services.

Subscription sales to our educational streaming services are primarily sold at the beginning of each school year as school budgets are appropriated and approved. The revenue derived from the subscription agreements is generally recognized
ratably over the school year. Sponsored strategic partnership programs are recognized as the campaigns are delivered. Education also provides products that are sold throughout the school year.

In April 2009, we completed the transition of our commerce business to a licensing model by outsourcing
the commerce direct-to-consumer operations including our commerce website, related marketing, product development and fulfillment to a third party. As a







result, we now receive royalties on merchandise and wholesale payments for DVDs sold based upon a percentage of our licensees’ wholesale revenues, with an advance against future expected
royalties. As part of our commerce business, we also have a domestic consumer products licensing business which licenses our brands in connection with merchandise, DVDs, sponsored strategic partnerships, videogames and publishing. E-commerce and
catalog sales are highly seasonal with a majority of the sales occurring in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. Licensing revenue may vary from period to period depending upon the popularity of the properties available for license and the
popularity of licensed products in a particular period.

We have agreements to represent third parties for U.S. affiliate and
advertising representation services. The fees for these services are recorded as the services are provided.

Operating Expenditures

Our principal operating costs consist of programming expense, personnel costs, sales and marketing expense, and
general and administrative expenses. Content expense is our largest expense category, representing 28% of our 2009 consolidated operating expenses, as investment in maintaining high-quality editorial and production values is a key differentiator for
our content. In connection with creating original content, we incur production costs associated with acquiring new show concepts and retaining creative talent, including actors, writers and producers. We incur sales and marketing expense to promote
brand recognition and to secure quality distribution channels worldwide.

Regulatory Matters

Our businesses are subject to and affected by regulations of U.S. federal, state and local government authorities, and our international
operations are subject to laws and regulations of local countries and international bodies such as the European Union. Programming networks, such as those owned by us, are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) in
certain respects if they are affiliated with a cable television operator. Other FCC regulations, although imposed on cable television operators and satellite operators, affect programming networks indirectly. The rules, regulations, policies and
procedures affecting our businesses are constantly subject to change. These descriptions are summary in nature and do not purport to describe all present and proposed laws and regulations affecting our businesses.

Program Access

The FCC’s program access rules prevent a satellite cable programming vendor in which a cable operator has an “attributable” ownership interest under FCC rules, such as those owned by us,
from entering into exclusive contracts for programming with a cable operator and from discriminating among competing multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”) in the price, terms and conditions for the sale or delivery of
programming. These rules also permit MVPDs to initiate complaints to the FCC against program suppliers if an MVPD claims it is unable to obtain rights to programming on nondiscriminatory terms.

Effect of “Must-Carry” Requirements

The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 imposed “must-carry” regulations on cable systems, requiring them to carry the signals of most local broadcast television
stations. Direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) systems are also subject to their own must-carry rules. FCC rules require cable systems to carry the digital signals of local television stations that have must-carry status and to carry the
same signal in analog format unless all subscribers have the necessary equipment to view the digital broadcast signal. The FCC’s implementation of these “must-carry” obligations requires cable and DBS operators to give broadcasters
preferential access to channel space. This reduces the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our networks by cable television systems and DBS operators.

Closed Captioning and Advertising Restrictions on Children’s Programming

Certain of our networks must provide closed-captioning of programming for the hearing impaired, and our programming and Internet websites
intended primarily for children 12 years of age and under must comply with certain limits on advertising.

Regulation of the Internet

We operate several Internet websites which we use to distribute information
about and supplement our programs and to offer consumers the opportunity to purchase consumer products and services. Internet services are now subject to regulation in the U.S. relating to the privacy and security of personally identifiable user
information and acquisition of personal information from children under 13, including the federal Child Online Protection Act (COPA) and the federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited







Pornography and Marketing Act (CAN-SPAM). In addition, a majority of states have enacted laws that impose data security and security breach obligations. Additional federal and state laws and
regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet or other online services, covering such issues as user privacy, child safety, data security, advertising, pricing, content, copyrights and trademarks, access by persons with disabilities,
distribution, taxation and characteristics and quality of products and services. In addition, to the extent we offer products and services to online consumers outside the U.S., the laws and regulations of foreign jurisdictions, including, without
limitation, consumer protection, privacy, advertising, data retention, intellectual property, and content limitations, may impose additional compliance obligations on us.

Competition

Cable and satellite network programming is a highly
competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our cable and satellite networks and websites generally compete for advertising revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media.
Our networks and websites also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable
television networks, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Our networks also compete with other television networks for distribution and affiliate fees derived from
distribution agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators and other distributors. Our commerce and education divisions also operate in highly competitive industries with our e-commerce and catalogue business competing with brick
and mortar and online retailers and our education business competing with other providers of educational products to schools, including providers with long-standing relationships, such as Scholastic.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2009, we had approximately 4,400 employees, including full-time and part-time employees of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and consolidated ventures. Approximately 3,200 of our employees were employed in the United States, with
the remaining 1,200 employed outside the United States. Over 250 of CSS’ creative and technical personnel are subject to one of CSS’ collective bargaining agreements with the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees. There
are no active grievances, strikes or work stoppages and we believe our relations with our union and non-union employees are strong.

Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property assets principally include copyrights in television
programming, websites and other content, trademarks in brands, names and logos, domain names and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds.

We are fundamentally a content company and the protection of our brands and content are of primary importance. To protect our intellectual property assets, we rely upon a combination of copyright,
trademark, unfair competition, trade secret and Internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Moreover, effective
intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not always
prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of our intellectual property. We seek to limit that threat through a combination of approaches.







Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property from time to
time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our
operations. In addition, piracy, which encompasses both the theft of our signal and unauthorized use of our programming, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual
property.

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas

Financial information for segments and geographic areas in which we do business for the three years ended December 31, 2009 is set forth
in Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements found in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available
Information

All of our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including
reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and all amendments to those filings are available on our Internet website as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such material with the SEC. Our corporate website
address is www.discoverycommunications.com.

Our annual report, corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and
ethics, audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, and nominating and corporate governance committee charter are available on our website. In addition, we will provide a printed copy of any of these documents, free of charge, upon
written request or by calling Investor Relations, Discovery Communications, Inc., 850 Third Avenue, 5th Floor, New York, NY 10022-7225, Telephone Number (212) 548-5882.

The information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference herein.



