ITEM 1. Business.

For convenience, the
terms “Discovery,” “DCI,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to refer to both Discovery Communications, Inc. and collectively to Discovery
Communications, Inc. and one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.

OVERVIEW

We are a global nonfiction media and entertainment company that provides programming across multiple distribution platforms throughout the
world. We also have a diversified portfolio of websites and other digital media services, develop and sell curriculum-based education products and services, and provide postproduction audio services. We were formed on September 17, 2008 as a
Delaware corporation in connection with Discovery Holding Company (“DHC”) and Advance/Newhouse Programming Partnership (“Advance/Newhouse”) combining their respective ownership interests in Discovery Communications Holding, LLC
(“DCH”) and exchanging those interests with and into Discovery (the “Discovery Formation”). DCH owned and operated various television networks, website properties and other digital media services throughout the world and sold
curriculum-based education products and services. As a result of the Discovery Formation, DHC and DCH became wholly-owned subsidiaries of Discovery, with Discovery becoming the successor reporting entity to DHC.

As one of the world’s largest nonfiction media companies, we provide original and purchased programming to more than 1.7 billion
cumulative subscribers worldwide through networks that we wholly or partially own. Our global portfolio of networks includes prominent television brands such as Discovery Channel, one of the first nonfiction networks and our most widely distributed
global brand, TLC and Animal Planet.

Our content spans genres including science, exploration, survival, natural history,
sustainability of the environment, technology, docu-series, anthropology, paleontology, history, space, archaeology, health and wellness, engineering, adventure, lifestyles, forensics, civilizations and current events. Our programming tends to
maintain its relevance for an extended period of time. As a result, a significant amount of our content translates well across international borders and is made even more accessible through extensive use of dubbing and subtitles in local languages.
We also create local programming tailored to individual market preferences.

We have an extensive library of content and own
all or most rights to the majority of our programming and footage, which enables us to exploit our library to launch new brands and services into new markets quickly. Our programming can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide
topical versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world. Substantially all of our programming is produced in high definition (“HD”) format.

Financial information for our segments and geographical areas in which we do business is set forth in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and Note 21, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Subscriber statistics set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include both wholly-owned networks and networks operated by equity
method investees. Domestic subscriber statistics are based on Nielsen Media Research. International subscriber statistics are derived from internal data coupled with external sources when available. As used herein, a “subscriber” is a
single household that receives the applicable network from its cable television operator, direct-to-home (“DTH”) satellite operator, or other television provider, including those who receive our networks from pay-television providers
without charge pursuant to various pricing plans that include free periods and/or free carriage. The term “cumulative subscribers” refers to the collective sum of the total number of subscribers to each of our networks or programming
services. By way of example, two households that each receives five of our networks from their television provider represent two subscribers, but 10 cumulative subscribers.

U.S. NETWORKS

Our U.S. Networks segment principally consists of national
television networks. U.S. Networks generates revenues from fees charged to operators who distribute our network content, which include cable and DTH satellite service providers and digital distributors, and from advertising sold on our television
networks and other arrangements. Our U.S. Networks segment also generates income to offset expenses associated with providing sales representation and network services to equity method investee networks and the licensing of our brands for consumer
products. Our U.S. Networks segment wholly owns and operates nine national television networks, including fully distributed television networks, Discovery Channel, TLC and Animal Planet. In addition, this segment holds our interests in OWN, The Hub
and 3net, which are operated by equity method investees. We account for our interests in the underlying ventures using the equity method and fees for services provided to them are recorded as other revenue.







Our U.S. Networks segment owns and operates the following television networks:



Discovery Channel•      Discovery Channel reached approximately 100 million subscribers in
the U.S. as of December 31, 2011. Discovery Channel also reached 8 million subscribers through a licensing arrangement with partners in Canada as of December 31, 2011.•      Discovery Channel is dedicated to providing nonfiction content that
informs and entertains viewers about the wonder and diversity of the world. The network offers a mix of genres, including science and technology, exploration, adventure, history and in-depth, behind-the-scenes glimpses at the people, places and
organizations that shape and share our world.•      Programming highlights on Discovery Channel includeDeadliest Catch, Mythbusters,
Dirty JobsandGold Rush. Discovery Channel is also home to specials and mini-series such asFrozen Planet (premiering March 18, 2012).•      Target viewers are adults ages 25-54, particularly men.•      Discovery Channel is simulcast in HD.



TLC•      TLC reached approximately 99 million subscribers in the U.S. as of
December 31, 2011. TLC also reached approximately 8 million subscribers in Canada as of December 31, 2011, according to internal data.•      TLC features docu-series and reality-based programming about
people.•      Programming highlights on TLC includeCake Boss, Little Couple, What Not to Wear,
Police Women, Say Yes to the Dress, Sister Wivesand19 Kids and Counting.•      Target viewers are adults ages 18-54, particularly women.•      TLC is simulcast in HD.



Animal Planet•      Animal Planet reached approximately 97 million subscribers in the
U.S. as of December 31, 2011. Animal Planet also reaches 2 million subscribers through a licensing arrangement with partners in Canada as of December 31, 2011.•      Animal Planet provides a full range of programming related to life in
the animal kingdom and human interaction with animals.•      Programming highlights on Animal Planet includeRiver Monsters,Finding
Bigfoot,Whale Wars, I Shouldn’t be Alive,Fatal Attractions,Pit Bulls and ParoleesandIt’s Me or the Dog.•      Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.•      Animal Planet is simulcast in HD.



Investigation Discovery•      Investigation Discovery reached approximately 79 million
subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2011.•      Investigation Discovery offers programming that focuses on mysteries
and true stories through in-depth series and documentaries that deliver insight into the human condition and the real world of investigations, piecing together the dramatic puzzles of human nature.•      Programming highlights on Investigation Discovery includeOn the Case with Paula
Zahn,Disappeared,I (Almost) Got Away With It,Who The (Bleep) Did I Marry?,Unusual Suspects,I Married a MobsterandNightmare Next Door.•      Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.•      Investigation Discovery is simulcast in HD.









SCIENCE•      SCIENCE reached approximately 69 million subscribers in the U.S.
as of December 31, 2011.•      SCIENCE provides programming that explores the possibilities of
science, from string theory and futuristic cities to accidental discoveries and outrageous inventions.•      Programming highlights on SCIENCE includeThrough the Wormhole with
Morgan Freeman,An Idiot Abroad,Wonders of the Universe,How It’s Made,Sci Fi Science,OdditiesandPunkin Chunkin.•      Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.•      SCIENCE is simulcast in HD.



Military Channel•      Military Channel reached approximately 60 million subscribers in
the U.S. as of December 31, 2011. Military Channel also reached approximately 1 million subscribers in Canada, according to internal data as of December 31, 2011.•      Military Channel brings viewers real-world stories of heroism, military
strategy, battlefield maneuvers, technological breakthroughs, aviation and turning points in history through the personal stories of servicemen and women.•      Programming highlights on Military Channel includeFuture Weapons, Showdown: Air
Combat, An Officer and a Movie,Greatest Tank BattlesandScience of the Elite Soldier.•      Target viewers are men ages 35-64.



Planet Green•      Planet Green reached approximately 58 million subscribers in the
U.S. as of December 31, 2011.•      Planet Green targets viewers who like to discover something new,
championing the innovators and mavericks who are transforming the way we view the world.•      Programming highlights on Planet Green include series and specials that
inform, entertain and inspire viewers.•      Target viewers are adults ages 18-54.•      Planet Green is simulcast in HD.



Discovery Fit & Health•      Rebranded from FitTV as of February 1, 2011, Discovery
Fit & Health reached approximately 49 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2011.•      Discovery Fit & Health programming includes forensic mysteries, medical
stories, emergency room trauma dramas, baby and pregnancy programming, parenting challenges, and stories of extreme life conditions.•      Programming includesDr. G: Medical Examiner,I’m Pregnant
And…,Untold Stories of the ER, I Didn’t Know I Was PregnantandGilad’s Bodies in Motion.•      Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.











Velocity

•      Rebranded from HD Theater as of October 4, 2011, Velocity reached
approximately 40 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2011.

•      Velocity showcases premier high definition real world programming in
the automotive, sports and leisure, adventure, lifestyle and travel genres, including live auctions, world rally championships, and historical and biographical series.



•      Programming highlights on Velocity includeInside West Coast Customs, Mecum Auto
Auctions, Café RacerandChasing Classic Cars.



•      Target viewers are adults ages 25-54, particularly men.



Our U.S. Networks segment owns interests in the following television networks that are operated by equity method investees:



OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network

•      OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network (formerly Discovery Health) debuted on
January 1, 2011, and reached approximately 77 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2011.



•      OWN is a multi-platform venture, including the OWN television network and Oprah.com,
designed to entertain, inform and inspire people to live their best lives.



•      Programming highlights on OWN includeOprah’s Life Class,The Rosie
Show,Our America with Lisa Ling,Oprah’s Master Class,Welcome to Sweetie Pie’sandOprah’s Next Chapter.



•      Target viewers are adults 25-54, particularly women.



•      OWN is simulcast in HD.



The Hub

•      The Hub reached approximately 62 million subscribers in the U.S.
as of December 31, 2011.

•      The Hub features original programming, game shows and live-action
series and specials focused on children and their families, including content drawn from Hasbro’s portfolio of entertainment and educational properties, content from Discovery’s extensive library of award-winning children’s
educational programming, and third-party acquisitions.



•      Programming highlights on The Hub includeTransformers Prime,R.L.
Stine’s The Haunting Hour: The Series,My Little Pony Friendship is Magic,Pound PuppiesandFamily Game Night.



•      Target viewers are children ages 2-11 and families.



•      The Hub is simulcast in HD.



3net

•      3net launched on February 13, 2011, and was available to all
DIRECTV subscribers in the U.S. with 3D capable television sets as of December 31, 2011.

•      3net, the first fully programmed 24/7 3D television network in the
U.S., features an extensive library of 3D content in genres including natural history, documentary, action/adventure, travel, history, kids and family, hyper-reality, lifestyle and cuisine, concerts, movies, and scripted series.



•      Programming highlights on 3net includeScary Tales,Indy 500: The Inside
Line, China Revealed, Fields of Valor: The Civil War,Cloudy with a Chance of MeatballsandHubble 3D.



•      Target viewers are adults 25-54.







Our Digital Media business consists of our websites and mobile and video-on-demand
(“VOD”) services. Our websites include network branded websites such as Discovery.com, TLC.com and AnimalPlanet.com, and other websites such as HowStuffWorks.com, an online source of explanations of how the world actually works;
Treehugger.com, a comprehensive source for “green” news, solutions and product information; and Petfinder.com, a leading pet adoption destination. Together, these websites attracted an average of 24 million cumulative unique monthly
visitors, according to comScore, Inc. in 2011.

INTERNATIONAL NETWORKS

Our International Networks segment principally consists of national and pan-regional television networks. This segment generates revenues
primarily from fees charged to operators who distribute our networks, which primarily include cable and DTH satellite service providers, and from advertising sold on our television networks and websites. Discovery Channel, Animal Planet and TLC lead
the International Networks’ portfolio of television networks, which are distributed in virtually every pay-television market in the world through an infrastructure that includes operational centers in London, Singapore and Miami. International
Networks has one of the largest international distribution platforms of networks with one to twelve networks in more than 200 countries and territories around the world. At December 31, 2011, International Networks operated over 150 unique
distribution feeds in over 40 languages with channel feeds customized according to language needs and advertising sales opportunities.

Our International Networks segment owns and operates the following television networks which reached the following number of subscribers as of December 31, 2011:



Global NetworksInternationalSubscribers(millions)Regional NetworksInternationalSubscribers(millions)Discovery Channel213DMAX47Animal Planet166Discovery Kids37TLC, Real Time and Travel & Living150Liv29Discovery Science66Quest23Discovery Home & Health48Discovery History13Turbo37Shed12Discovery World27Discovery en Espanol (U.S.)5Investigation Discovery23Discovery Famillia (U.S.)4HD Services17

EDUCATION AND OTHER

Our Education and Other segment primarily includes the sale of curriculum-based product and service offerings and postproduction audio services. This segment generates revenues primarily from
subscriptions charged to K-12 schools for access to an online suite of curriculum-based VOD tools, professional development services, and to a lesser extent student assessment and publication of hardcopy curriculum-based content. Our education
business also participates in corporate partnerships, global brand and content licensing business with leading non-profits, foundations and trade associations. Other businesses primarily include postproduction audio services that are provided to
major motion picture studios, independent producers, broadcast networks, cable channels, advertising agencies, and interactive producers.

CONTENT DEVELOPMENT

Our
content development strategy is designed to increase viewership, maintain innovation and quality leadership, and provide value for our network distributors and advertising customers. Substantially all content is sourced from a wide range of
third-party producers, which includes some of the world’s leading nonfiction production companies with which we have developed long-standing relationships, as well as independent producers. Our production arrangements fall into three
categories: produced, coproduced and licensed. Substantially all produced content includes programming which we engage third parties to develop and produce while we retain editorial control and own most or all of the rights in exchange for paying
all development and production costs. Coproduced content refers to program rights acquired that we have collaborated with third parties to finance and develop. Coproduced programs are typically high-cost projects for which neither we nor our
coproducers wish to bear the entire cost or productions in which the producer has already taken on an international broadcast partner. Licensed content is comprised of films or series that have been previously produced by third parties.







International Networks maximizes the use of programming from our U.S. Networks. Much of our
content tends to be culturally neutral and maintains its relevance for an extended period of time. As a result, a significant amount of our programming translates well across international borders and is made even more accessible through extensive
use of dubbing and subtitles in local languages. Our programming can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world. We also develop local programming that is
tailored to individual market preferences, which is typically produced through third-party production companies.

REVENUES

We generate revenues principally from: (i) fees charged to operators who distribute our network content, which primarily include
cable and DTH satellite service providers and digital distributors, (ii) advertising sold on our networks, websites and other digital media services, and (iii) other transactions, including curriculum-based products and services, affiliate
and advertising sales representation services for third-party networks, content licenses, postproduction audio services, and the licensing of our brands for consumer products. No single customer represented more than 10% of our total consolidated
revenues for 2011, 2010 or 2009.

Distribution

Distribution revenue includes fees charged for the right to view Discovery network branded content made available to customers through a variety of distribution platforms and viewing devices. The largest
component of distribution revenue is comprised of fees charged to cable, DTH satellite and telecommunication service providers for distribution rights to Discovery’s television networks. Typically, Discovery’s television networks are aired
pursuant to multi-year carriage agreements that generally provide for the level of carriage Discovery’s networks will receive, and if applicable, for scheduled graduated annual rate increases. Carriage of Discovery networks depends upon channel
placement and package inclusion such as whether on more widely distributed, broader packages or lesser-distributed, specialized packages. Distribution revenue also includes fees charged for bulk content arrangements and other subscription services
for episodic content. Distribution revenues are largely dependent on the number of subscribers that receive our networks or content and the quality and quantity of programming that Discovery provides.

As an incentive to obtain long-term distribution agreements for our newer networks, we have made cash payments to distributors to carry
the network (“launch incentives”), provide the channel to the distributor for free for a predetermined length of time, or both. We have contracts with distributors representing most cable and satellite service providers around the world,
including the largest operators in the U.S. and major international distributors. In the U.S., approximately 90% of distribution revenues come from the top 10 distributors, with whom we have agreements that expire at various times from 2012
through 2020. At the end of 2012, three of these distribution arrangements will expire and we intend to renew these agreements. Outside of the U.S., less than 50% of distribution revenue comes from the top 10 distributors. Distribution fees are
typically collected ratably throughout the year.

Advertising

Our advertising revenues consist of consumer advertising, which is sold primarily on a national basis in the U.S. and on a pan-regional or local-language feed basis outside the U.S. Advertising
contracts generally have terms of one year or less.

In the U.S., advertising revenues are a function of the size and
demographics of the audience delivered, quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the audience of each network, the perceived quality of the network and of the particular programming, the brand appeal of the network and ratings as determined
by third-party research companies such as Nielsen Media Research, as well as overall advertiser demand in the marketplace. We sell advertising time in both the upfront and scatter markets. In the upfront market, advertisers buy advertising time for
the upcoming season, and by purchasing in advance, often receive discounted rates. In the scatter market, advertisers buy advertising time close to the time when the commercials will be run, and often pay a premium. The mix between the upfront and
scatter markets is based upon a number of factors, such as pricing, demand for advertising time and economic conditions.

Outside the U.S. advertisers buy advertising time closer to the time when the commercials will be run. International television markets
vary in their stages of development. Some, notably the U.K., are more advanced digital multi-channel television markets, while others remain in the analog environment with varying degrees of investment from operators in expanding channel capacity or
converting to digital. Advertising revenues outside of the U.S. are dependent upon a number of factors, including the stage of development of pay television markets, the number of subscribers to our channels, viewership demographics, the popularity
of our programming, and our ability to sell commercial time over a group of channels. In developing pay television markets, we expect







advertising revenue growth will result from subscriber growth, our localization strategy, and the shift of advertising spending from broadcast to pay television. In relatively mature markets,
such as Western Europe, the growth dynamic is changing. Increased market penetration and distribution are unlikely to drive rapid growth in those markets. Instead, growth in advertising sales would come from increasing viewership and advertising
pricing on our existing pay television networks and launching new services, either in pay television or free television environments.

Revenues from advertising are subject to seasonality, market-based variations, and general economic conditions. Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth quarters. Revenues can
also fluctuate due to the popularity of particular programs and viewership ratings. In some cases, advertising sales are subject to ratings guarantees that require us to provide additional advertising time if the guaranteed audience levels are not
achieved.

We also generate revenues from the sale of advertising on our online properties. We sell advertising on our
websites both on a stand-alone basis and as part of advertising packages with our television networks.

Other

Revenues for curriculum-based services are recognized ratably over the contract term. Revenues from postproduction audio services are
recognized as services are provided.

COMPETITION

Television network programming is a highly competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. We experience competition in the development and acquisition of content, for the distribution of our programming,
for the selling of commercial time on our networks, and for viewers. Our networks compete with studios, television networks, and other forms of media such as DVDs and the internet for the acquisition of programming and creative talent such as
writers, producers and directors. Our ability to produce and acquire popular programming is an important competitive factor for the distribution of our networks, attracting viewers and the sale of commercial time. Our success in securing popular
programming and creative talent depends on various factors such as the number of competitors providing programming that targets the same genre and audience, the distribution of our networks, viewership, and the production, marketing and advertising
support we provide.

Our networks compete with other television networks, including broadcast, cable and local, for the
distribution of our programming and fees charged to cable television operators, DTH satellite service providers and other distributors that carry our network programming. Our ability to secure distribution agreements is necessary to ensure the
effective distribution of network programming to our audiences. Our contractual agreements with distributors are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. At the end of 2012, three of our largest U.S. distribution
arrangements will expire and we intend to renew these agreements. Growth in the number of networks distributed, consolidation and other market conditions in the cable and satellite distribution industry, and other platforms may adversely affect our
ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of our programming that are as favorable as those currently in place. The ability to secure distribution agreements is dependent upon the production, acquisition and packaging of
original programming, viewership, the marketing and advertising support and incentives provided to distributors, and the prices charged for carriage.

Our networks and websites compete for the sale of advertising with other television networks, including broadcast, cable and local networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media.
Our success in selling advertising is a function of the size and demographics of our viewers, quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the audience of each network, the perceived quality of the network and of the particular programming, the
brand appeal of the network and ratings as determined by third-party research companies, prices charged for advertising and overall advertiser demand in the marketplace.

Our networks and websites also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast, cable and local networks, pay-per-view and VOD
services, DVDs, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment.

Our education business also
competes with other providers of curriculum-based products to schools. Our postproduction audio services business competes with other production and in-house sound companies.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our intellectual property assets principally include
copyrights in television programming, websites and other content, trademarks in brands, names and logos, domain names and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds.







We are fundamentally a content company and the protection of our brands and content is of
primary importance. To protect our intellectual property assets, we rely upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, trade secret and Internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no
assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and
related intellectual property is often difficult. We seek to limit unauthorized use of our intellectual property through a combination of approaches. However, the steps taken to prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of our
intellectual property may not work.

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property from time
to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our
operations. In addition, piracy, which encompasses both the theft of our signal and unauthorized use of our programming, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual
property.

REGULATORY MATTERS

Our businesses are subject to and affected by regulations of U.S. federal, state and local government authorities, and our international operations are subject to laws and regulations of local
countries and international bodies such as the European Union. Programming networks, such as those owned by us, are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) in certain respects if they are affiliated with a cable
television distributor. Other FCC regulations, although imposed on cable television operators and satellite operators, affect programming networks indirectly. The rules, regulations, policies and procedures affecting our businesses are constantly
subject to change. These descriptions are summary in nature and do not purport to describe all present and proposed laws and regulations affecting our businesses.

Program Access

The FCC’s program access rules prevent a satellite or
cable programming vendor in which a cable operator has an “attributable” ownership interest under FCC rules from entering into exclusive contracts for programming with a distributor and from discriminating among competing multichannel
video programming distributors (“MVPDs”), such as cable and satellite operators, in the rates, terms and conditions for the sale or delivery of programming. These rules also permit MVPDs to initiate complaints to the FCC against
programming networks if an MVPD claims it is unable to obtain rights to carry the programming network on nondiscriminatory rates, terms or conditions.

“Must-Carry”/Retransmission Consent

The Cable Television
Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the “Act”) imposed “must-carry” regulations on cable systems, requiring them to carry the signals of most local broadcast television stations in their market. Direct broadcast
satellite (“DBS”) systems are also subject to their own must-carry rules. The FCC’s implementation of “must-carry” obligations requires cable operators and DBS providers to give broadcasters preferential access to channel
space. This reduces the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our networks by cable operators and DBS providers. The Act also established retransmission consent, which refers to a broadcaster’s right to require consent from
MVPDs, such as cable and satellite operators, before distributing its signal to their subscribers. Broadcasters have traditionally used the resulting leverage from demand for their must-have broadcast programming to obtain carriage for their
affiliated networks. Increasingly, broadcasters are additionally seeking substantial monetary compensation for granting carriage rights for their must-have broadcast programming. Such increased financial demands on distributors reduce the
programming funds available for independent programmers not affiliated with broadcasters, such as us.

Closed Captioning and Advertising
Restrictions

Certain of our networks must provide closed-captioning of programming for the hearing
impaired, our programming and websites intended primarily for children 12 years of age and under must comply with certain limits on advertising, and commercials embedded in our networks’ programming stream adhere to certain standards for
ensuring that those commercials are not transmitted at louder volumes than our program material. In the future, the
21stCentury Communications and Video Accessibility Act of
2010 may require us to provide closed captioning on certain video programming that we offer on the Internet.

Obscenity Restrictions

Network distributors are prohibited from transmitting obscene programming, and our affiliation agreements generally
require us to refrain from including such programming on our networks.







Regulation of the Internet

We operate several websites which we use to distribute information about our programs and to offer consumers the opportunity to purchase consumer products and services. Internet services are now subject
to regulation in the U.S. relating to the privacy and security of personally identifiable user information and acquisition of personal information from children under 13, including the federal Child Online Protection Act and the federal Controlling
the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act. In addition, a majority of states have enacted laws that impose data security and security breach obligations. Additional federal and state laws and regulations may be adopted with respect
to the Internet or other online services, covering such issues as user privacy, child safety, data security, advertising, pricing, content, copyrights and trademarks, access by persons with disabilities, distribution, taxation and characteristics
and quality of products and services. In addition, to the extent we offer products and services to online consumers outside the U.S., the laws and regulations of foreign jurisdictions, including, without limitation, consumer protection, privacy,
advertising, data retention, intellectual property, and content limitations, may impose additional compliance obligations on us.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 4,600 employees, including full-time and part-time employees of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries and consolidated ventures. There were approximately 250 personnel at our postproduction audio services business subject to collective bargaining agreements. There are no active grievances, strikes or work stoppages and we
believe our relations with our union and non-union employees are strong. We do not believe a dispute with employees subject to collective bargaining agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

All of our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including reports on Form 10-K,
Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and all amendments to such filings are available free of charge at the investor relations section of our website, www.discoverycommunications.com, as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed with,
or furnished to, the SEC. Our annual report, corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics, audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, and nominating and corporate governance committee charter are also available
on our website. In addition, we will provide a printed copy of any of these documents, free of charge, upon written request at: Investor Relations, Discovery Communications, Inc., 850 Third Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10022-7225. The information
contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference herein.

