10-K


c55886e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

Form 10-K

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION
    REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended
    December 31,

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Transition Period
    From          to

Commission file number 1-10235

IDEX CORPORATION

(Exact Name of Registrant as
    Specified in its Charter)

Delaware

(State or other jurisdiction
    of

incorporation or organization)

36-3555336

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

630 Dundee Road, Northbrook, Illinois

(Address of principal
    executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s
    telephone number:

(847) 498-7070

Securities
    Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

and Chicago Stock Exchange

Securities
    Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of

Regulation S-T

(§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes

o

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule

12b-2

of the
    Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
    accelerated
    filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated

filer

o

Smaller
    reporting
    company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the voting stock (based on the
    June 30, 2009 closing price of $36.84) held by
    non-affiliates of IDEX Corporation was $1,953,103,845.

The number of shares outstanding of IDEX Corporation’s
    common stock, par value $.01 per share (the “Common
    Stock”), as of February 18, 2010 was 81,000,451 (net
    of treasury shares).

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the 2009 Annual Report to stockholders of IDEX
    Corporation (“the 2009 Annual Report”) are
    incorporated by reference in Part II of this

Form 10-K

and portions of the Proxy Statement of IDEX Corporation (the
    “2010 Proxy Statement”) with respect to the 2010
    annual meeting of stockholders are incorporated by reference
    into Part III of this

Form 10-K.

Table of
    Contents


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

IDEX Corporation (“IDEX” or the “Company”)
    is a Delaware Corporation incorporated on September 24,
    1987. The Company is an applied solutions business that sells an
    extensive array of pumps, flow meters and other fluidics systems
    and components and engineered products to customers in a variety
    of markets around the world. All of the Company’s business
    activities are carried out through wholly-owned subsidiaries.

IDEX has four reportable business segments: Fluid &
    Metering Technologies, Health & Science Technologies,
    Dispensing Equipment, and Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products. Reporting units in the Fluid & Metering
    Technologies segment include Banjo, Energy (Corken, Faure
    Herman, Liquid Controls, S.A.M.P.I., Sponsler and Toptech
    products), Industrial Process Technology, (IDEX AODD (Pumper
    Parts, Versa-Matic and Warren Rupp products), Richter, Sanitary
    (Knight, Quadro and Wright Flow products), and Viking (Blagdon
    and Viking products)) and Water (ADS, IETG, iPEK, and
    Pulsafeeder products). Reporting units in the Health &
    Science Technologies segment include Health & Science
    Technologies (“HST”) Core (Eastern Plastics,
    Innovadyne, Isolation Technologies, Rheodyne, Sapphire
    Engineering, Semrock, Systec and Upchurch Scientific products),
    Gast (Gast and Jun-Air products), and Micropump (Ismatec,
    Micropump and Trebor products). The Dispensing Equipment segment
    is a reporting unit and includes FAST & Fluid
    Management and Fluid Management products. Reporting units in the
    Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment include
    Fire Suppression (Class 1, Godiva and Hale products),
    Rescue Tools (Dinglee, Hurst, Lukas and Vetter products) and
    Band-It.

IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in
    its product and service areas. The Company also believes that
    its strong financial performance has been attributable to its
    ability to design and engineer specialized quality products,
    coupled with its ability to identify and successfully consummate
    and integrate strategic acquisitions.

FLUID &
    METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT

The Fluid & Metering Technologies segment designs,
    produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow
    meters, injectors, and other fluid-handling pump modules and
    systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for
    water and wastewater. Fluid & Metering Technologies
    application-specific pump and metering solutions serve a diverse
    range of end markets, including industrial infrastructure
    (fossil fuels, refined & alternative fuels, and
    water & wastewater), chemical processing,
    agricultural, food & beverage, pulp & paper,
    transportation, plastics & resins,
    electronics & electrical, construction &
    mining, pharmaceutical & bio-pharmaceutical, machinery
    and numerous other specialty niche markets. Fluid &
    Metering Technologies accounted for 48% of IDEX’s sales and
    44% of IDEX’s operating income in 2009, with approximately
    46% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.

Banjo.

Banjo is a provider of special purpose,
    severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid
    handling. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana and its
    products are used in agricultural and industrial applications.
    Approximately 11% of Banjo’s 2009 sales were to customers
    outside the U.S.

Energy.

Energy includes the Company’s
    Corken, Faure Herman, Liquid Controls, S.A.M.P.I., Sponsler and
    Toptech businesses. Energy is a leading supplier of flow meters,
    electronic registration and control products, rotary vane and
    turbine pumps, reciprocating piston compressors, and terminal
    automation control systems. Headquartered in Lake Bluff,
    Illinois (Liquid Controls and Sponsler products), Energy has
    additional facilities in Longwood, Florida and Zwijndrech
    Belgium (Toptech products); Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (Corken
    products); La Ferté Bernard, France and Houston, Texas
    (Faure Herman products); Vadodara, Gujarat, India (Liquid
    Controls products); and Altopascio, Italy (S.A.M.P.I. products).
    Applications for Liquid Controls and S.A.M.P.I. positive
    displacement flow meters, electronic, registration and control
    products include mobile and stationary metering installations
    for wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum and liquefied
    petroleum gas, aviation refueling, and industrial metering and
    dispensing of liquids and gases. Corken products consist of
    positive-displacement rotary vane pumps, single and multistage
    regenerative turbine pumps, and small horsepower reciprocating
    piston compressors, while Sponsler products consist of precision
    turbine flow meters to meet all flow applications, including
    low-flow applications where viscosity, corrosive media, extreme
    temperature or hazardous materials are



factors. Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and
    software to control and manage inventories, as well as
    transactional data and invoicing, to customers in the oil, gas
    and refined-fuels markets. In February 2007, IDEX acquired Faure
    Herman, a leading supplier of ultrasonic and helical turbine
    flow meters used in the custody transfer and control of high
    value fluids and gases. Approximately 54% of Energy’s 2009
    sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Industrial Process Technologies.

Industrial
    Process Technologies (“IPT”) includes the
    Company’s IDEX AODD, Richter, Sanitary and Viking
    businesses. IPT is a leading producer of air-operated and
    motor-driven double-diaphragm pumps and replacement parts; a
    leading provider of premium quality lined pumps, valves and
    control equipment for the chemical, fine chemical and
    pharmaceutical industries; a leading manufacturer of pumps and
    dispensing equipment for industrial laundries, commercial
    dishwashing and chemical metering; and a leading provider of
    particle control solutions for the pharmaceutical &
    bio-pharmaceutical markets. IDEX AODD products (which include
    Pumper Parts, Versa-Matic and Warren Rupp products) are used for
    abrasive and semisolid materials as well as for applications
    where product degradation is a concern or where electricity is
    not available or should not be used. Market’s served by
    IDEX AODD products include chemical, paint, food processing,
    electronics, construction, utilities, mining and industrial
    maintenance. Richter’s corrosion resistant fluoroplastic
    lined products offer superior solutions for demanding
    applications in the process industry. Sanitary’s products
    (which include Knight, Quadro and Wright Flow products) consist
    of rotary lobe pumps, stainless-steel centrifugal and positive
    displacement pumps and pump replacement parts for the beverage,
    food processing, pharmaceutical, cosmetics and other industries
    that require sanitary processing as well as products for fine
    milling, emulsification and special handling of liquid and solid
    particulates for laboratory, pilot phase and production scale
    processing. Viking’s products consist of external gear
    pumps, strainers and reducers, and related controls used for
    transferring and metering thin and viscous liquids sold under
    the
    Viking

®

brand and air-operated double-diaphragm pumps sold under the
    Blagdon

®

brand. Markets served by Viking products include chemical,
    petroleum, pulp & paper, plastics, paints, inks,
    tanker trucks, compressor, construction, food &
    beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech. IPT
    maintains operations in Mansfield, Ohio (IDEX AODD); Kampen,
    Germany, Nanjing, China, and Coimbatore, India (Richter); Lake
    Forest, California, Unanderra, New South Wales, Australia,
    Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, Eastbourne, East Sussex, England,
    Muskego, Wisconsin and Windsor, Ontario, Canada (Sanitary); and
    Cedar Falls, Iowa (Richter, Sanitary and Viking). IPT uses
    primarily independent distributors to sell and market its
    products. Approximately 53% of IPT’s 2009 sales were to
    customers outside the U.S.

Water and Waste Water
    (“Water”).

Water includes the
    Company’s ADS, IETG, iPEK and Pulsafeeder businesses. Water
    is a leading provider of metering technology & flow
    monitoring products and underground surveillance services for
    water and wastewater markets as well a leading manufacturer of
    metering pumps, special-purpose rotary pumps, peristaltic pumps,
    fully integrated pump and metering systems, custom chemical-feed
    systems, electronic controls and dispensing equipment. ADS
    products and services provide comprehensive integrated solutions
    that enable industry, municipalities and government agencies to
    analyze and measure the capacity, quality and integrity of
    wastewater collection systems. IETG products and services enable
    water companies to effectively manage their water distribution
    and sewerage networks, while its surveillance service
    specializes in underground asset detection and mapping for
    utilities and other private companies. iPEK supplies remote
    controlled systems used for infrastructure inspection.
    Pulsafeeder products are used to introduce precise amounts of
    fluids into processes to manage water quality and chemical
    composition, and its markets include water &
    wastewater treatment, power generation, pulp & paper,
    chemical & hydrocarbon processing, and swimming pools.
    Water maintains operations in Huntsville, Alabama, Sydney, New
    South Wales, Australia, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, and
    Auckland, New Zealand (ADS), Leeds, England (IETG), Hirschegg,
    Austria (iPEK) and Rochester, New York, and Punta Gorda, Florida
    (Pulsafeeder). Approximately 37% of Water’s 2009 sales were
    to customers outside the U.S.

HEALTH &
    SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT

The Health & Science Technologies Segment designs,
    produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics
    solutions, including very high precision, low-flow rate pumping
    solutions required in analytical instrumentation, clinical
    diagnostics and drug discovery, high performance molded and
    extruded, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air
    compressors used in medical, dental and industrial applications,
    and precision gear



and peristaltic pump technologies that meet exacting OEM
    specifications. The segment accounted for 23% of both
    IDEX’s sales and operating income in 2009, with
    approximately 39% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.

HST Core.

HST Core consists of the IDEX
    Health & Science (“IHS”) and Semrock
    business units. IHS is a consolidation of the Company’s
    Eastern Plastics, Innovadyne, Isolation Technologies, Rheodyne,
    Sapphire Engineering, Systec and Upchurch Scientific businesses
    and has facilities in Rohnert Park, California (Innovadyne,
    Rheodyne and Systec products); Bristol, Connecticut (Eastern
    Plastics products); Middleboro, Massachusetts (Isolation
    Technologies and Sapphire Engineering products); and Oak Harbor,
    Washington (Upchurch Scientific products). Rheodyne and Systec
    products include injectors, valves, fittings and accessories for
    the analytical instrumentation market. Rheodyne and Systec
    products are used by manufacturers of high pressure liquid
    chromatography equipment servicing the pharmaceutical, biotech,
    life science, food & beverage, and chemical markets.
    Sapphire Engineering and Upchurch Scientific products include
    fluidic components and systems for the analytical, biotech and
    diagnostic instrumentation markets, such as fittings,
    precision-dispensing pumps and valves, tubing and integrated
    tubing assemblies, filter sensors and other micro-fluidic and
    nano-fluidic components. Markets for Sapphire Engineering and
    Upchurch Scientific products include pharmaceutical, drug
    discovery, chemical, biochemical processing, genomics/proteomics
    research, environmental labs, food/agriculture, medical lab,
    personal care, and plastics/polymer/rubber production. Eastern
    Plastics products, which consist of high-precision integrated
    fluidics and associated engineered plastics solutions. Eastern
    Plastics products are used in a broad set of end markets
    including medical diagnostics, analytical instrumentation, and
    laboratory automation. In October 2007, the Company acquired
    Isolation Technologies, a leading developer of advanced column
    hardware and accessories for the High Performance Liquid
    Chromatography (HPLC) market. HPLC instruments are used in a
    variety of analytical chemistry applications, with primary
    commercial applications including drug discovery and quality
    control measurements for pharmaceutical and food/beverage
    testing. Semrock, which was acquired in October 2008, is a
    provider of optical filters for biotech and analytical
    instrumentation in the life sciences markets. Semrock’s
    optical filters are produced using

state-of-the-art

manufacturing processes which enable it to offer its customers
    significant improvements in instrument performance and
    reliability. Semrock is located in Rochester, New York.
    Approximately 35% of HST Core’s 2009 sales were to
    customers outside the U.S.

Gast.

Gast includes the Company’s Gast
    and Jun-Air businesses. The Gast business is a leading
    manufacturer of air-moving products, including air motors,
    low-range and medium-range vacuum pumps, vacuum generators,
    regenerative blowers and fractional horsepower compressors. Gast
    products are used in a variety of long-life applications
    requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure.
    Markets served by Gast products include medical equipment,
    environmental equipment, computers & electronics,
    printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery,
    graphic arts, and industrial manufacturing. Based in Benton
    Harbor, Michigan, Gast also has a facility in Redditch, England.
    Jun-Air is a provider of low-decibel, ultra-quiet vacuum
    compressors suitable for medical, dental and laboratory
    applications. Based in Norresundby, Denmark, Jun-Air has
    additional operations in Lyon, France, and Dankeryd, The
    Netherlands. Approximately 32% of Gast’s 2009 sales were to
    customers outside the U.S.

Micropump.

Micropump includes the
    Company’s Ismatec, Micropump and Trebor businesses.
    Micropump, headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, is a leader
    in small, precision-engineered, magnetically and
    electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal
    pumps. Micropump products are used in low-flow abrasive and
    corrosive applications. Markets served by Micropump products
    include printing machinery, medical equipment,
    paints & inks, chemical processing, pharmaceutical,
    refining, laboratory, electronics, pulp & paper, water
    treatment, textiles, peristaltic metering pumps, analytical
    process controllers and sample preparation systems. Ismatec, a
    leading manufacturer of peristaltic metering pumps, analytical
    process controllers, and sample preparation systems, has
    facilities in Glattbrugg, Switzerland and Wertheim-Mondfeld,
    Germany. Located in Salt Lake City, Utah, the Trebor business is
    a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including
    air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating
    systems. Trebor products are used in manufacturing of
    semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays.
    Approximately 67% of Micropump’s 2009 sales were to
    customers outside the U.S.

DISPENSING
    EQUIPMENT SEGMENT

The Dispensing Equipment Segment produces precision equipment
    for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants, paints, and hair
    colorants and other personal care products used in a variety of
    retail and commercial



businesses around the world. The segment accounted for 9% of
    IDEX’s sales and 7% of IDEX’s operating income in
    2009, with approximately 64% of its sales to customers outside
    the U.S.

Dispensing Equipment is a leading American, European and Asian
    supplier of precision-designed tinting, mixing, dispensing and
    measuring equipment for auto refinishing, architectural paints
    and personal care products. Dispensing Equipment equipment is
    used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home
    centers, department stores, automotive body shops as well as

point-of-purchase

dispensers and mixing equipment for the personal care and health
    and beauty industry. Dispensing Equipment is currently pursuing
    opportunities to use its precision mixing, dispensing and
    measuring expertise in the food and beverage areas. Dispensing
    Equipment is headquartered in Wheeling, Illinois, with
    additional operations in Sassenheim, The Netherlands, Unanderra,
    Australia; Gennevilliers, France; Milan, Italy; Torun, Poland;
    Barcelona, Spain; and Scarborough, Ontario, Canada.
    Approximately 64% of Dispensing Equipment’s 2009 sales were
    to customers outside the U.S.

FIRE &
    SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT

The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment
    produces firefighting pumps and controls, rescue tools, lifting
    bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue
    industry, and engineered stainless steel banding and clamping
    devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial
    applications. The segment accounted for 20% of IDEX’s sales
    and 26% of IDEX’s operating income in 2009, with
    approximately 53% of its sales to customers outside the U.S.

Fire Suppression.

Fire Suppression includes
    the Company’s Class 1, Hale and Godiva businesses,
    which produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless
    steel valves, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules
    and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems,
    conventional and networked electrical systems, and mechanical
    components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets.
    Fire Suppression’s customers are primarily OEMs. Fire
    Suppression is headquartered in Ocala, Florida (Class 1
    products), with additional facilities located in Conshohocken,
    Pennsylvania (Hale products); Neenah, Wisconsin (Class 1
    products); and Warwick, England (Godiva products). Approximately
    34% of Fire Suppression’s 2009 sales were to customers
    outside the U.S.

Rescue Tools.

Rescue tools includes the
    Company’s Dinglee, Hurst, Lukas and Vetter businesses,
    which produce hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated
    rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic
    tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic
    lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue,
    environmental protection and disaster control, and shoring
    equipment for vehicular or structural collapse. Markets served
    by Rescue Tools products include public and private fire and
    rescue organizations. Rescue Tools has facilities in Shelby,
    North Carolina (Hurst products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee
    products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products); and Zulpich,
    Germany (Vetter products). Approximately 77% of Rescue
    Tools’s 2009 sales were to customers outside the U.S.

Band-It.

Band-It is a leading producer of
    high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping
    systems. The
    BAND-IT

®

brand is highly recognized worldwide. Band-It products are used
    for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, industrial
    hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable
    shielding, identification and bundling, and numerous other
    industrial and commercial applications. Markets for Band-It
    products include transportation equipment, oil & gas,
    general industrial maintenance, electronics, electrical,
    communications, aerospace, utility, municipal and subsea marine.
    Band-It is based in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations
    in Staveley Near Chesterfield, Derbyshire, England, and
    Singapore. Approximately 42% of Band-It’s 2009 sales were
    to customers outside the U.S.

GENERAL
    ASPECTS APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS

Competitors

The Company’s businesses participate in highly competitive
    markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition
    are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities,
    product development, conformity to customer specifications,
    quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery, and
    effectiveness of our distribution channels.



Principal competitors of the Fluid & Metering
    Technologies Segment are the Pump Solutions Group (Blackmer and
    Wilden products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and
    small horsepower compressors used in liquified petroleum gas
    distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps, and air-operated
    double-diaphragm pumps); the Milton Roy unit of United
    Technologies Corporation (with respect to metering pumps and
    controls); and Tuthill Corporation (with respect to rotary gear
    pumps).

Principal competitors of the Health & Science
    Technologies Segment are the Thomas division of Gardner Denver,
    Inc. (with respect to vacuum pumps and compressors); and Valco
    Instruments Co., Inc. (with respect to fluid injectors and
    valves).

The principal competitor of the Dispensing Equipment Segment is
    CPS Color Group Oy, which is owned by Nordic Capital (with
    respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint
    industry).

The principal competitors of the Fire &
    Safety/Diversified Products Segment are Waterous Company, a unit
    of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to
    truck-mounted firefighting pumps), Holmatro, Inc. (with respect
    to rescue tools), and Panduit Corporation (with respect to
    stainless steel bands, buckles and tools).

Employees

At December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately
    5,300 employees. Approximately 8% were represented by labor
    unions with various contracts expiring through February 2012.
    Management believes that the Company’s relationship with
    their employees is good. The Company historically has been able
    to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective bargaining
    agreements, with its last work stoppage in March 1993.

Suppliers

The Company manufactures many of the parts and components used
    in its products. Substantially all materials, parts and
    components purchased by the Company are available from multiple
    sources.

Inventory
    and Backlog

The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production
    schedules and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders.
    Backlogs typically are limited to 1 to


/


months of production. While total inventory levels also may be
    affected by changes in orders, the Company generally tries to
    maintain relatively stable inventory levels based on its
    assessment of the requirements of the various industries served.

Shared
    Services

The Company has two production facilities in Suzhou, China, that
    support multiple IDEX business units. IDEX also has personnel in
    China, India and Singapore that provide sales and marketing,
    product design and engineering, and sourcing support to IDEX
    business units, as well as personnel in various locations in
    Europe, South America, the Middle East and Japan to support
    sales and marketing efforts of IDEX businesses in those regions.

Segment
    Information

For segment financial information for the years 2009, 2008, and
    2007, see the table titled “Company and Business Segment
    Financial Information” presented on page 17 in
    Part II. Item 7. “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” and Note 13 of the “Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements” on page 48 in
    Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names of the executive
    officers of the Company, their ages, years of service, the
    positions held by them, and their business experience during the
    past 5 years.

Years of

Name

Age

Service

Position

Lawrence D. Kingsley



Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

Dominic A. Romeo



Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Harold Morgan



Vice President-Human Resources

John L. McMurray



Vice President-Group Executive Process Technologies

Heath A. Mitts



Vice President-Corporate Finance

Frank J. Notaro



Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary

Daniel J. Salliotte



Vice President-Strategy and Business Development

Michael J. Yates



Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

Kevin G. Hostetler



Vice President, Group Executive Fluid and Metering Technologies

Andrew K. Silvernail



Vice President, Group Executive Health and Science Technologies
    and Global Dispensing

Mr. Kingsley has been Chairman of the Board since
    April  2006. He was appointed to the position of President
    and Chief Executive Officer in March 2005. Mr. Kingsley was
    hired as Chief Operating Officer in August 2004.

Mr. Romeo has been Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer of the Company since January 2004.

Mr. Morgan has been Vice President-Human Resources of the
    Company since June 2008. From February 2003 to June 2008,
    Mr. Morgan was Senior Vice President and Chief
    Administrative Officer for Bally Total Fitness Corporation.

Mr. McMurray has been Vice President-Group Executive
    Process Technologies since August 2003. In February  2010,
    IDEX announced that Mr. McMurray will be retiring in April
    2011. He will remain a corporate officer through his retirement
    with responsibilities for operational excellence, supply chain
    and environment, health and safety through his retirement date.

Mr. Mitts has been Vice President-Corporate Finance since
    September 2005. Prior to joining IDEX, Mr. Mitts was Chief
    Financial Officer of PerkinElmer’s Asia operations, based
    out of Singapore, from February 2002 to September 2005.

Mr. Notaro has served as Vice President-General Counsel and
    Secretary since March 1998.

Mr. Salliotte has been Vice President-Strategy and Business
    Development of the Company since October 2004.

Mr. Yates was appointed Vice-President and Chief Accounting
    Officer in February  2010. Mr. Yates was hired as Vice
    President-Controller in October 2005. Prior to joining IDEX,
    Mr. Yates was a Senior Manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP from November 1999 to October 2005.

Mr. Hostetler was appointed Vice President, Group Executive
    Fluid and Metering Technologies in February 2010.
    Mr. Hostetler joined IDEX in July 2005 as President of the
    Liquid Controls Group and was then appointed Vice President,
    Group Executive and President Energy and Water and IDEX Asia in
    December 2008. Prior to joining IDEX, Mr. Hostetler was
    General Manager, Assembly Solutions at Ingersoll-Rand.



Mr. Silvernail was appointed Vice President, Group
    Executive Health and Science Technologies and Global Dispensing
    in February 2010. From January 2009 to February 2010,
    Mr. Silvernail was Vice President, Group Executive Health
    and Science Technologies. Prior to joining IDEX,
    Mr. Silvernail served as Group President at Rexnord
    Industries from April 2005 to August 2008 and Group Vice
    President of Business Development at Newell Rubbermaid from
    September 2002 to February 2005.

The Company’s executive officers are elected at a meeting
    of the Board of Directors immediately following the annual
    meeting of stockholders, and they serve until the next annual
    meeting of the Board, or until their successors are duly elected.

Public
    Filings

Copies of the Company’s annual report on

Form 10-K,

quarterly reports on

Form 10-Q,

current reports on

Form 8-K

and amendments to those reports are made available free of
    charge at www.idexcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable
    after being filed electronically with the SEC. Our reports are
    also available free of charge on the SEC’s website,
    www.sec.gov.

Item 1A.

Risk
    Factors.

For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide
    range of factors could materially affect future developments and
    performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific
    business operations identified in connection with the
    description of these operations and the financial results of
    these operations elsewhere in this report, the most significant
    factors affecting our operations include the following:

THE
    RECENT FINANCIAL CRISIS AND CURRENT UNCERTAINTY IN GLOBAL
    ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS,
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR CASH
    FLOWS.

The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and
    financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic
    conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets,
    a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme
    volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There
    could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic
    developments on our business, including insolvency of key
    suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to
    obtain credit to finance purchases of our products

and/or

customer insolvencies; decreased customer confidence; and
    decreased customer demand, including order delays or
    cancellations.

CHANGES
    IN U.S. OR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY
    AFFECT THE PROFITABILITY OF ANY OF OUR BUSINESSES.

In 2009, 53% of the Company’s revenue was derived from
    domestic operations while 47% was international. The
    Company’s largest markets include life sciences &
    medical technologies, fire and rescue, petroleum LPG, paint and
    coatings, chemical processing and water & wastewater
    treatment. A slowdown in the economy and in particular any of
    these specific end markets could directly affect the
    Company’s revenue stream and profitability.

POLITICAL
    CONDITIONS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE COULD
    ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

In 2009, approximately 47% of our total sales were to customers
    outside the U.S. We expect international operations and
    export sales to continue to contribute to earnings for the
    foreseeable future. Both the sales from international operations
    and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks
    inherent in doing business outside the United States. Such risks
    include the following:

• possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising
    from host country laws or regulations;

• risks of economic instability;

• currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions
    on currency repatriation;



• potential negative consequences from changes to
    taxation policies;

• the disruption of operations from labor and
    political disturbances;

• changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or
    export licensing requirements; and,

• insurrection or war.

We cannot predict the impact such future, largely unforeseeable
    events might have on the Company’s operations.

AN
    INABILITY TO CONTINUE TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS CAN LIMIT THE
    COMPANY’S REVENUE AND PROFITABILITY.

The Company’s organic growth was down 14% in 2009 and flat
    in 2008. Approximately 20% of our revenue was derived from new
    products developed over the past three years. Our ability to
    continue to grow organically is tied to our ability to continue
    to develop new products.

OUR
    GROWTH STRATEGY INCLUDES ACQUISITIONS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
    MAKE ACQUISITIONS OF SUITABLE CANDIDATES OR INTEGRATE
    ACQUISITIONS SUCCESSFULLY.

Our historical growth has included, and our future growth is
    likely to continue to include, in large part our acquisition
    strategy and the successful integration of acquired businesses
    into our existing operations.

We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition
    opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our
    position in existing markets throughout the world. We cannot be
    assured, however, that we will be able to successfully identify
    suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms,
    obtain financing which may be needed to consummate such
    acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully
    integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or
    expand into new markets. In addition, we cannot assure you that
    any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as
    planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to
    our operations and cash flow.

Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in
    the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and
    products of the acquired companies and the diversion of
    management’s attention from other business concerns. In
    addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future
    acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial
    additional indebtedness and other expenses. Once integrated,
    acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues,
    profitability or productivity comparable with those achieved by
    our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected.

THE
    MARKETS WE SERVE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. THIS COMPETITION COULD
    LIMIT THE VOLUME OF PRODUCTS THAT WE SELL AND REDUCE OUR
    OPERATING MARGINS.

Most of our products are sold in competitive markets. We believe
    that the principal points of competition in our markets are
    product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities,
    product development, conformity to customer specifications,
    quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery, and
    effectiveness of our distribution channels. Maintaining and
    improving our competitive position will require continued
    investment by us in manufacturing, engineering, quality
    standards, marketing, customer service and support, and our
    distribution networks. We cannot be assured that we will be
    successful in maintaining our competitive position. Our
    competitors may develop products that are superior to our
    products, or may develop methods of more efficiently and
    effectively providing products and services or may adapt more
    quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer
    requirements. Pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust
    the prices of certain of our products to stay competitive. We
    cannot be assured that we will be able to compete successfully
    with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Failure
    to continue competing successfully could adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flow.



WE ARE
    DEPENDENT ON THE AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS, PARTS AND
    COMPONENTS USED IN OUR PRODUCTS.

While we manufacture many of the parts and components used in
    our products, we require substantial amounts of raw materials
    and purchase some parts and components from suppliers. The
    availability and prices for raw materials, parts and components
    may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other
    things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers,
    interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange
    rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of,
    or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could
    materially affect our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flow.

SIGNIFICANT
    MOVEMENTS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES MAY HARM OUR
    FINANCIAL RESULTS.

We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
    rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Canadian Dollar,
    British Pound and Chinese Renminbi. Any significant change in
    the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do
    business against the U.S. Dollar could affect our ability
    to sell products competitively and control our cost structure,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For
    additional detail related to this risk, see Part II.
    Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About
    Market Risk.

AN
    UNFAVORABLE OUTCOME WITH REGARDS TO ANY OF OUR PENDING
    CONTINGENCIES OR LITIGATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS,
    FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH
    FLOW.

We currently are involved in certain legal and regulatory
    proceedings. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, we accrue
    estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these
    matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with
    outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential
    results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement
    strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating
    results for any particular quarter or annual period could be
    materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the
    effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings.
    For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings.

WE
    COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY RAPID CHANGES IN INTEREST
    RATES.

Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period of
    an unexpected or rapid increase in interest rates. The
    Company’s interest rate exposure was primarily related to
    the $400.1 million of total debt outstanding at
    December 31, 2009. The majority of the debt is priced at
    interest rates that float with the market. In order to mitigate
    this interest exposure, the Company entered into interest rate
    exchange agreements that effectively converted
    $345.0 million of our floating-rate debt to a fixed rate. A
    50 basis point movement in the interest rate on the
    remaining $55.1 million floating-rate debt would result in
    an approximate $0.3 million annualized increase or decrease
    in interest expense and cash flow. For additional detail related
    to this risk, see Part II. Item 7A. Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.

OUR
    INTANGIBLE ASSETS ARE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR TOTAL ASSETS
    AND A WRITE-OFF OF OUR INTANGIBLE ASSETS COULD CAUSE A MAJOR
    IMPACT ON THE COMPANY’S NET WORTH.

Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets,
    primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At
    December 31, 2009, goodwill and intangible assets totaled
    $1,180.4 million and $281.4 million, respectively.
    These goodwill and intangible assets result from our
    acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair
    value of the tangible assets we have acquired. Annually, or when
    certain events occur that require a more current valuation, we
    assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of our
    goodwill or intangible assets. If future operating performance
    at one or more of our reporting units were to fall significantly
    below forecast levels, we could reflect, under current
    applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating
    income for an impairment. Any determination requiring the
    write-off of a significant portion of the goodwill or intangible
    assets could have a material negative effect on our results of
    operations and total capitalization. In accordance with
    Accounting



Standards Codification (“ASC”), 350,
    “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other”, the
    Company concluded that events had occurred and circumstances had
    changed in 2008 which required the Company to record a goodwill
    impairment of $30.1 million at Fluid Management, a
    reporting unit within the Company’s Dispensing Equipment
    Segment. See Note 5 in Part II. Item 8. Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion on
    goodwill and intangible assets.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.

The Company has received no written comments regarding its
    periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more
    preceding the end of its 2009 calendar year and that remain
    unresolved.

Item 2.

Properties.

The Company’s principal plants and offices have an
    aggregate floor space area of approximately 4.0 million
    square feet, of which 2.5 million square feet (62%) is
    located in the U.S. and approximately 1.5 million
    square feet (38%) is located outside the U.S., primarily in
    Germany (8%), Italy (7%), the U.K. (6%) and Australia (4%).
    These facilities are considered to be suitable and adequate for
    their operations. Management believes we can meet the expected
    demand increase over the near term with our existing facilities,
    especially given our operational improvement initiatives that
    usually increase capacity. The Company’s executive office
    occupies approximately 26,000 square feet of leased space
    in Northbrook, Illinois.

Approximately 2.8 million square feet (69%) of the
    principal plant and office floor area is owned by the Company,
    and the balance is held under lease. Approximately
    1.8 million square feet (44%) of the principal plant and
    office floor area is held by business units in the
    Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment;
    0.8 million square feet (19%) is held by business units in
    the Health & Science Technologies Segment;
    0.6 million square feet (16%) is held by business units in
    the Dispensing Equipment Segment; and 0.7 million square
    feet (18%) is held by business units in the Fire &
    Safety/Diversified Products Segment.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings.

The Company and six of its subsidiaries are presently named as
    defendants in a number of lawsuits claiming various
    asbestos-related personal injuries, allegedly as a result of
    exposure to products manufactured with components that contained
    asbestos. Such components were acquired from third party
    suppliers, and were not manufactured by any of the subsidiaries.
    To date, the majority of the Company’s settlements and
    legal costs, except for costs of coordination, administration,
    insurance investigation and a portion of defense costs, have
    been covered in full by insurance subject to applicable
    deductibles. However, the Company cannot predict whether and to
    what extent insurance will be available to continue to cover
    such settlements and legal costs, or how insurers may respond to
    claims that are tendered to them.

Claims have been filed in jurisdictions throughout the United
    States. Most of the claims resolved to date have been dismissed
    without payment. The balance have been settled for various
    insignificant amounts. Only one case has been tried, resulting
    in a verdict for the Company’s business unit.

No provision has been made in the financial statements of the
    Company, other than for insurance deductibles in the ordinary
    course, and the Company does not currently believe the
    asbestos-related claims will have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s business, financial position, results of
    operations or cash flow.

The Company is also party to various other legal proceedings
    arising in the ordinary course of business, none of which is
    expected to have a material adverse effect on its business,
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.

Item 4.

Reserved.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

Information regarding the prices of, and dividends on, the
    Common Stock, and certain related matters, is incorporated
    herein by reference to “Shareholder Information” on
    the inner back cover of the 2009 Annual Report.

The principal market for the Common Stock is the New York Stock
    Exchange, but the Common Stock is also listed on the Chicago
    Stock Exchange. As of February 18, 2010, Common Stock was
    held by approximately 7,000 shareholders and there were
    81,000,451 shares of Common Stock outstanding, net of
    treasury shares.

For information pertaining to issuable securities under equity
    compensation plans and the related weighted average exercise
    price, see Part III, Item 12, “Security Ownership of
    Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder
    Matters”.

The following table provides information about Company purchases
    of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant
    to Section 12 of the Exchange Act during the quarter ended
    December 31, 2009:

Total Number of

Maximum Dollar

Shares Purchased as

Value that May Yet

Part of Publicly

be Purchased Under

Total Number of

Average Price

Announced Plans

the Plans

Period

Shares Purchased

Paid per Share

or Programs(1)

or Programs(1)

October 1, 2009 to

October 31, 2009

—

—

—

$

75,000,020

November 1, 2009 to

November 30, 2009

—

—

—

$

75,000,020

December 1, 2009 to

December 31, 2009

—

—

—

$

75,000,020

Total

—

—

—

$

75,000,020

(1)

On April 21, 2008, IDEX’s Board of Directors
    authorized the repurchase of up to $125.0 million of its
    outstanding common shares either in the open market or through
    private transactions.



The following table compares total shareholder returns over the
    last five years to the Standard & Poor’s (the
    “S&P”) 500 Index, the S&P 600 Small Cap
    Industrial Machinery Index and the Russell 2000 Index assuming
    the value of the investment in IDEX Common Stock and each index
    was $100 on December 31, 2004. Total return values for IDEX
    Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index, S&P 600 Small Cap
    Industrial Machinery Index and the Russell 2000 Index were
    calculated on cumulative total return values assuming
    reinvestment of dividends. The shareholder return shown on the
    graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance.

12/04

12/05

12/06

12/07

12/08

12/09

IDEX Corporation

$

100.00

$

101.48

$

117.04

$

133.81

$

89.44

$

115.37

S&P 500 Index

100.00

103.00

117.03

121.16

74.53

92.01

S&P Industrial Machinery Index

100.00

107.84

128.76

142.85

94.67

110.77

Russell 2000 Index

100.00

103.32

120.89

117.57

76.65

95.98



Item 6.

Selected
    Financial Data. (1)

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)


2008(2)

2007(2)

2006(2)

2005(2)

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Net sales

$

1,329,661

$

1,489,471

$

1,358,631

$

1,154,940

$

1,011,253

Gross profit

522,386

597,433

566,161

474,172

415,625

Selling, general and administrative expenses

325,453

343,392

313,366

260,201

232,935

Goodwill impairment

—

30,090

—

—

—

Restructuring expenses

12,079

17,995

—

—

—

Operating income

184,854

205,956

252,795

213,971

182,690

Other income — net

1,151

5,123

3,434

1,040


Interest expense

17,178

18,852

23,353

16,353

14,370

Provision for income taxes

55,436

65,201

78,457

67,038

59,215

Income from continuing operations

113,391

127,026

154,419

131,620

109,662

Income/(loss) from discontinued

operations-net

of tax

—

—

(719

)

12,949

1,228

Net income

113,391

127,026

153,700

144,569

110,890

FINANCIAL POSITION

Current assets

$

451,712

$

480,688

$

617,622

$

400,724

$

336,250

Current liabilities

189,682

219,869

198,953

187,252

153,296

Working capital

262,030

260,819

418,669

213,472

182,954

Current ratio

2.4

2.2

3.1

2.1

2.2

Capital expenditures

25,525

28,358

26,496

21,198

22,532

Depreciation and amortization

56,346

48,599

38,038

29,956

26,254

Total assets

2,098,157

2,151,800

1,970,078

1,653,637

1,229,459

Total borrowings

400,100

554,000

454,731

361,980

160,043

Shareholders’ equity

1,268,104

1,144,783

1,143,207

962,088

808,289

PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Percent of net sales:

Gross profit

39.3

%

40.1

%

41.7

%

41.0

%

41.1

%

SG&A expenses

24.5

23.1

23.1

22.5

23.0

Operating income

13.9

13.8

18.6

18.5

18.1

Income before income taxes

12.7

12.9

17.1

17.2

16.7

Income from continuing operations

8.5

8.5

11.4

11.4

10.8

Effective tax rate

32.8

33.9

33.7

33.7

35.1

Return on average assets(3)

5.3

6.2

8.5

9.1

9.1

Borrowings as a percent of capitalization

24.0

32.6

28.5

27.3

16.5

Return on average shareholders’ equity(3)

9.4

11.1

14.7

14.9

14.6

PER SHARE DATA(4)(5)

Basic

— income from continuing operations

$

1.41

$

1.55

$

1.90

$

1.65

$

1.41

— net income

1.41

1.55

1.89

1.81

1.43

Diluted

— income from continuing operations

1.40

1.53

1.88

1.62

1.39

— net income

1.40

1.53

1.87

1.78

1.40

Cash dividends declared

.48

.48

.48

.40

.32

Shareholders’ equity

15.66

14.26

14.01

11.94

10.21

Stock price

— high

32.85

40.75

44.99

35.65

30.22

— low

16.67

17.70

30.41

26.00

24.33

— close

31.15

24.15

36.13

31.61

27.41

Price/earnings ratio at year end






Other Data

Employees at year end

5,300

5,813

5,009

4,863

4,263

Shareholders at year end

7,000

7,000

7,000

6,700

6,700

Shares outstanding (in 000s)(4):

Weighted average

— basic

79,716

81,123

80,666

79,527

77,088

— diluted

80,727

82,320

82,086

80,976

79,080

At year end (net of treasury)

80,970

80,302

81,579

80,546

79,191



Item 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.

Cautionary
    Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform
    Act

The “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this
    management’s discussion and analysis of our operations
    contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
    Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These
    statements may relate to, among other things, capital
    expenditures, cost reductions, cash flow, and operating
    improvements and are indicated by words or phrases such as
    “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plans,”
    “expects,” “projects,” “should,”
    “will,” “management believes,” “the
    Company believes,” “we believe,” “the
    Company intends” and similar words or phrases. These
    statements are subject to inherent uncertainties and risks that
    could cause actual results to differ materially from those
    anticipated at the date of this filing. The risks and
    uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following:
    economic and political consequences resulting from terrorist
    attacks and wars; levels of industrial activity and economic
    conditions in the U.S. and other countries around the
    world; pricing pressures and other competitive factors, and
    levels of capital spending in certain industries — all
    of which could have a material impact on our order rates and
    results, particularly in light of the low levels of order
    backlogs we typically maintain; our ability to make acquisitions
    and to integrate and operate acquired businesses on a profitable
    basis; the relationship of the U.S. dollar to other
    currencies and its impact on pricing and cost competitiveness;
    political and economic conditions in foreign countries in which
    we operate; interest rates; capacity utilization and the effect
    this has on costs; labor markets; market conditions and material
    costs; and developments with respect to contingencies, such as
    litigation and environmental matters. The forward-looking
    statements included here are only made as of the date of this
    report, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update them
    to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Investors are
    cautioned not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements when
    evaluating the information presented here.

Historical
    Overview

IDEX Corporation is an applied solutions company specializing in
    fluid and metering technologies, health and science
    technologies, dispensing equipment, and fire, safety and other
    diversified products built to its customers’
    specifications. Our products are sold in niche markets to a wide
    range of industries throughout the world. Accordingly, our
    businesses are affected by levels of industrial activity and
    economic conditions in the U.S. and in other countries
    where we do business and by the relationship of the
    U.S. dollar to other currencies. Levels of capacity
    utilization and capital spending in certain industries and
    overall industrial activity are among the factors that influence
    the demand for our products.

The Company consists of four reporting
    segments:  Fluid & Metering Technologies,
    Health & Science Technologies, Dispensing Equipment
    and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products.

The Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment designs,
    produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow
    meters, injectors, and other fluid-handling pump modules and
    systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for
    water and wastewater. The Health & Science
    Technologies Segment designs, produces and distributes a wide
    range of precision fluidics solutions, including very high
    precision, low-flow rate pumping solutions required in
    analytical instrumentation, clinical diagnostics and drug
    discovery, high performance molded and extruded, biocompatible
    medical devices and implantables, air compressors used in
    medical, dental and industrial applications, and precision gear
    and peristaltic pump technologies that meet exacting OEM
    specifications. The Dispensing Equipment Segment produces
    precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing
    colorants, paints, and hair colorants and other personal care
    products used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses
    around the world. The Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products Segment produces firefighting pumps and controls,
    rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems for
    the fire and rescue industry, and engineered stainless steel
    banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and
    commercial applications.

Results
    of Operations

On July 1, 2009 the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) ASC became the authoritative source of
    accounting principals to be applied to financial statements
    prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the U.S. In accordance with the ASC, citations
    to accounting literature in this report are to the relevant
    topic of the ASC or are presented in plain English.



The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial
    position and results of operations for each of the three years
    in the period ended December 31, 2009. For purposes of this
    discussion and analysis section, reference is made to the table
    on page 17 and the Consolidated Statements of Operations in
    Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data on page 28. We changed our method of
    accounting for inventory from the LIFO method to the FIFO method
    effective January 1, 2009 and applied this change in
    accounting principle retrospectively to all prior periods
    presented herein (see Note 2 in Part II. Item 8.
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data).

Performance
    in 2009 Compared with 2008

Sales in 2009 of $1,329.7 million were 11% lower than the
    $1,489.5 million recorded a year ago. This decrease
    reflects a 14% decrease in organic sales and 2% unfavorable
    foreign currency translation, partially offset by a 5% increase
    from four acquisitions (Richter — October 2008,
    iPEK — October 2008, IETG — October 2008 and
    Semrock — October 2008). Organic sales decreased in
    all four of the Company’s reporting segments. Domestic
    organic sales were down 13% versus the prior year, while
    international organic sales were down 15% in 2009. Sales to
    customers outside the U.S. represented 47% of total sales
    in both 2009 and 2008.

In 2009, Fluid & Metering Technologies contributed 48%
    of sales and 44% of operating income; Health & Science
    Technologies accounted for 23% of both sales and operating
    income; Dispensing Equipment accounted for 9% of sales and 7% of
    operating income; and Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products represented 20% of sales and 26% of operating income.

Fluid & Metering Technologies sales of
    $641.1 million in 2009 decreased $56.6 million, or 8%,
    compared with 2008. This reflects a 16% decline in organic sales
    and 1% of unfavorable foreign currency translation, partially
    offset by a 9% increase for acquisitions (Richter, iPEK and
    IETG). The decrease in organic growth was driven by weakness in
    chemical, energy, water and wastewater markets. In 2009, organic
    sales declined approximately 16% both domestically and
    internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were
    approximately 46% of total segment sales in 2009 and 41% in 2008.

Health & Science Technologies sales of
    $304.3 million decreased $27.3 million, or 8%, in 2009
    compared with last year. This change represents a 12% decrease
    in organic volume and 1% unfavorable foreign currency
    translation, partially offset by a 5% increase from the
    acquisition of Semrock. The decrease in organic sales reflects
    market softness in both core and non-core Health &
    Science Technologies businesses. In 2009, organic sales
    decreased 13% domestically and 10% internationally. Sales to
    customers outside the U.S. were approximately 39% of total
    segment sales in both 2009 and 2008.

Dispensing Equipment sales of $127.3 million decreased
    $36.6 million, or 22%, in 2009 compared with the prior
    year. Organic sales decreased 18%, while foreign currency
    translation accounted for 4% of the decrease. The decrease in
    organic growth was due to continued deterioration in capital
    spending in the European and North American markets.
    Organic domestic sales increased 8% compared with 2008, while
    organic international sales decreased 27%. Sales to customers
    outside the U.S. were 64% of total segment sales in 2009,
    down from 74% in 2008.

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products sales of
    $262.8 million decreased $37.7 million, or 13%, in
    2009 compared with 2008. Organic sales activity decreased 9%,
    while foreign currency translation accounted for 4% of the
    decrease. The decrease in organic business growth was driven by
    lower demand for engineered band clamping systems and lower
    levels of municipal spending. In 2009, organic sales decreased
    12% domestically and 7% internationally. Sales to customers
    outside the U.S. were 53% of total segment sales in 2009
    and 54% in 2008.

Gross profit of $522.4 million in 2009 was
    $75.0 million, or 13%, lower than 2008. As a percent of
    sales, gross profit was 39.3% in 2009, which represented an 80
    basis-point decrease from 40.1% in 2008. The decrease in gross
    margin primarily reflects lower volume and product mix.

Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses
    decreased to $325.5 million in 2009 from
    $343.4 million in 2008. The $17.9 million decrease
    reflects approximately $40.7 million for restructuring
    related savings and volume related expenses, partially offset by
    a $22.8 million increase for incremental costs associated
    with recently acquired businesses. As a percent of net sales,
    SG&A expenses were 24.5% for 2009 and 23.1% in 2008.



In 2009, the Company concluded that the fair value of each of
    its reporting units was in excess of its carrying value as of
    October 31, 2009, and thus no goodwill impairment was
    identified. However, a 10% decrease in fair value of the Banjo
    or the Water reporting units within the Fluid &
    Metering Technologies Segment could potentially result in a
    goodwill impairment charge at these reporting units. The total
    goodwill balance for these two reporting units as of
    October 31, 2009 was $288.7 million. In 2008, the
    Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of
    $30.1 million. The Company concluded in accordance with ASC
    350 that events had occurred and circumstances had changed which
    required the Company to perform an interim period goodwill
    impairment test at Fluid Management, a reporting unit within the
    Company’s Dispensing Equipment Segment. Fluid Management
    had experienced a downturn in capital spending by its customer
    base and the loss of market share. The Company performed an
    impairment test and compared the fair value of the reporting
    unit to its carrying value. It was determined that the fair
    value of Fluid Management was less than the carrying value of
    the net assets. The excess of the fair value of the reporting
    unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is
    the implied fair value of goodwill. The Company’s analysis
    resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of
    $21.2 million.

In 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring
    expenses totaling $12.1 million and $18.0 million,
    respectively, for employee severance related to employee
    reductions across various functional areas and facility closures
    resulting from the Company’s cost savings initiatives.
    These initiatives included severance benefits for
    478 employees in 2009 and 380 in 2008. The Company is
    anticipating the employee reductions to be completed by mid 2010
    with an expected additional total cost of $4.0 —
    $5.0 million in 2010, with severance payments expected to
    be fully paid by the end of 2011 using cash from operations.

Operating income decreased $21.1 million, or 10%, to
    $184.9 million in 2009 from $206.0 million in 2008.
    This decrease primarily reflects a decrease in volume, partially
    offset by the goodwill impairment charge in 2008 and the impact
    from acquisitions. Operating margins in 2009 were 13.9% of sales
    compared with 13.8% recorded in 2008.

In the Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment,
    operating income of $100.3 million and operating margins of
    15.6% in 2009 were down from the $123.8 million and 17.7%
    recorded in 2008 principally due to lower sales. In the
    Health & Science Technologies Segment, operating
    income of $51.7 million and operating margins of 17.0% in
    2009 were down from the $58.3 million and 17.6% recorded in
    2008 due to lower volume. In the Dispensing Equipment Segment,
    operating income of $15.1 million and operating margins of
    11.9% in 2009 were up from the $10.7 million of operating
    loss recorded in 2008, due to the goodwill impairment charge in
    2008, partially offset by continued deterioration in the North
    American and European markets. Operating income and operating
    margins in the Fire & Safety/Diversified Products
    Segment of $59.9 million and 22.8%, respectively, were
    lower than the $74.3 million and 24.7% recorded in 2008,
    due primarily to lower volume and unfavorable product mix.



Company
    and Business Segment Financial Information

For the Years Ended December 31,(1)


2008(6)

2007(6)

(In thousands)

Fluid & Metering Technologies

Net sales(2)

$

641,108

$

697,702

$

570,307

Operating income(3)

100,289

123,801

119,060

Operating margin(3)

15.6

%

17.7

%

20.9

%

Identifiable assets

$

1,043,082

$

1,070,348

$

698,286

Depreciation and amortization

32,584

26,276

16,797

Capital expenditures

12,867

13,859

11,407

Health & Science Technologies

Net sales(2)

$

304,329

$

331,591

$

327,170

Operating income(3)

51,712

58,297

61,473

Operating margin(3)

17.0

%

17.6

%

18.8

%

Identifiable assets

$

567,096

$

594,459

$

542,427

Depreciation and amortization

14,293

11,806

11,156

Capital expenditures

6,365

5,365

5,342

Dispensing Equipment

Net sales(2)

$

127,279

$

163,861

$

177,948

Operating income (loss)(3)(4)

15,147

(10,748

)

39,179

Operating margin(3)(4)

11.9

%

(6.6

)%

22.0

%

Identifiable assets

$

164,979

$

179,800

$

236,751

Depreciation and amortization

3,124

3,986

3,151

Capital expenditures


2,528

2,832

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products

Net sales(2)

$

262,809

$

300,462

$

288,424

Operating income(3)

59,884

74,310

66,287

Operating margin(3)

22.8

%

24.7

%

23.0

%

Identifiable assets

$

285,893

$

286,482

$

312,603

Depreciation and amortization

5,328

5,288

5,676

Capital expenditures

3,686

4,743

3,532

Company

Net sales

$

1,329,661

$

1,489,471

$

1,358,631

Operating income

184,854

205,956

252,795

Operating margin

13.9

%

13.8

%

18.6

%

Total assets

$

2,098,157

$

2,151,800

$

1,970,078

Depreciation and amortization(5)

56,346

48,599

38,038

Capital expenditures

25,525

28,358

26,496



Other income of $1.2 million in 2009 was $3.9 million
    lower than the $5.1 million in 2008, due to unfavorable
    foreign currency translation and lower interest income.

Interest expense decreased to $17.2 million in 2009 from
    $18.9 million in 2008. The decrease was due to a lower
    interest rate environment, the retirement of the
    $150.0 million senior notes to a lower interest rate in
    February 2008 and the conversion of $350.0 million
    floating-rate debt into fixed-rates.

The provision for income taxes decreased to $55.4 million
    in 2009 from $65.2 million in 2008. The effective tax rate
    decreased to 32.8% in 2009 from 33.9% in 2008, due to changes in
    the mix of global pre-tax income among taxing jurisdictions.

Net income for 2009 was $113.4 million, 11% lower than the
    $127.0 million earned in the same period of 2008. Diluted
    earnings per share in 2009 of $1.40 decreased $0.13, or 8%,
    compared with the same period last year.

Performance
    in 2008 Compared with 2007

Sales in 2008 of $1,489.5 million were 10% higher than the
    $1,358.6 million recorded in 2007. Seven acquisitions
    (Quadro — June 2007, Isolation
    Technologies — October 2007, ADS — January
    2008, Richter — October 2008, iPEK — October
    2008, IETG — October 2008 and Semrock —
    October 2008) completed since 2007 accounted for an
    improvement of 9%, foreign currency translation accounted for
    1%, while organic sales were flat. Organic sales increased in
    the Fluid & Metering Technologies and Fire &
    Safety/Diversified Products segments, but were down in the
    Health & Science Technologies and Dispensing Equipment
    segments. Domestic organic sales were down 3% versus the prior
    year, while international organic sales were up 4% over the
    prior year. Sales to customers outside the U.S. represented
    47% of total sales in 2008 and 46% in 2007.

In 2008, Fluid & Metering Technologies contributed 47%
    of sales and 50% of operating income; Health & Science
    Technologies accounted for 22% of sales and 24% of operating
    income; Dispensing Equipment accounted for 11% of sales and (4)%
    of operating income; and Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products represented 20% of sales and 30% of operating income.

Fluid & Metering Technologies sales of
    $697.7 million in 2008 rose $127.4 million, or 22%,
    compared with 2007. The acquisition of Quadro, ADS, Richter,
    iPEK and IETG accounted for 18% of the increase, while organic
    growth increased 4%. In 2008, organic sales grew approximately
    2% domestically and 6% internationally. Sales to customers
    outside the U.S. were approximately 41% of total segment
    sales in 2008 and 42% in 2007.

Health & Science Technologies sales of
    $331.6 million increased $4.4 million, or 1%, in 2008
    compared with last year. The acquisition of Isolation
    Technologies and Semrock accounted for 4% of the increase
    partially offset by a 3% decrease in organic volume. In 2008,
    organic sales decreased 2% domestically and 5% internationally.
    Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 39%
    of total segment sales in 2008 and 2007.

Dispensing Equipment sales of $163.9 million decreased
    $14.1 million, or 8%, in 2008 compared with the prior year.
    Organic sales decreased 13%, while foreign currency translation
    accounted for an increase of 5%. Organic domestic sales
    decreased 35% compared with 2007, while organic international
    sales were essentially flat. Sales to customers outside the
    U.S. were 74% of total segment sales in 2008, up from 63%
    in 2007.

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products sales of
    $300.5 million increased $12.0 million, or 4%, in 2008
    compared with 2007. Organic sales activity increased 3%, while
    foreign currency translation accounted for 1%. In 2008, organic
    sales decreased 4% domestically, while organic international
    sales increased 11%. Sales to customers outside the
    U.S. were 54% of total segment sales in 2008 and 49% in
    2007.

Gross profit of $597.4 million in 2008 was
    $31.3 million, or 6%, higher than 2007. As a percent of
    sales, gross profit was 40.1% in 2008, which represented a 160
    basis-point decrease from 41.7% in 2007. The decrease in gross
    margin primarily reflects product mix, inventory fair value
    expense, higher material costs and the effect from recent
    acquisitions.

SG&A expenses increased to $343.4 million in 2008 from
    $313.4 million in 2007. This increase primarily relates to
    our recent acquisitions. As a percent of net sales, SG&A
    expenses were 23.1% for both 2008 and 2007.



In 2008 the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of
    $30.1 million. The Company concluded in accordance with ASC
    350 that events had occurred and circumstances had changed which
    required the Company to perform an interim period goodwill
    impairment test at Fluid Management, a reporting unit within the
    Company’s Dispensing Equipment Segment. Fluid Management
    had experienced a downturn in capital spending by its customer
    base and the loss of market share. The Company performed an
    impairment test and compared the fair value of the reporting
    unit to its carrying value. It was determined that the fair
    value of Fluid Management was less than the carrying value of
    the net assets. The excess of the fair value of the reporting
    unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is
    the implied fair value of goodwill. The Company’s analysis
    resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill of
    $21.2 million.

In October 2008, the date of our annual impairment test, the
    Company updated certain forecasts to reflect, among other
    things, the global economic downturn and other considerations.
    Because of these changes in circumstances, as of
    December 31, 2008 the Company reassessed the likelihood of
    any further impairment of our reporting units. No goodwill
    impairments were identified. However, further changes in our
    forecasts or changes in key assumptions could cause book values
    of certain reporting units to exceed their fair values which
    could have resulted in goodwill impairment charges in future
    periods. Except for two of our reporting units within the
    Fluid & Metering Technologies segment, a 10% decrease
    in the fair value of our reporting units did not result in
    goodwill impairment based on carrying values at
    December 31, 2008. The two reporting units which could have
    potentially resulted in a goodwill impairment if a 10% decrease
    in fair value were realized had a total goodwill balance of
    $204.2 million.

In 2008, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring expenses
    totaling $18.0 million. These restructuring expenses were
    related to the Company’s restructuring program, which
    includes the previously announced cessation of manufacturing
    operations in its Dispensing Equipment segment’s Milan,
    Italy facility. The expenses recorded in 2008 included costs
    related to involuntary terminations and other direct costs
    associated with implementing these initiatives.

Operating income decreased $46.8 million, or 19%, to
    $206.0 million in 2008 from $252.8 million in 2007.
    This decrease consists of $18.0 million for
    restructuring-related charges, $30.1 million for a goodwill
    impairment charge, $10.6 million from the effect of the
    2008 acquisitions and $4.1 million for the acquisition
    related inventory fair value expense, partially offset by
    $16.0 million in savings attributable to strategic sourcing
    and other operational excellence initiatives. Operating margins
    in 2008 were 13.8% of sales compared with 18.6% in 2007. The
    decrease in operating margins was primarily due to the impact of
    the restructuring-related and goodwill impairment charges, as
    well as expenses associated with recent acquisitions, partially
    offset by an increase in volume.

In the Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment,
    operating income of $123.8 million in 2008 was up from the
    $119.1 million recorded in 2007 principally due to
    increased volume, partially offset by the restructuring-related
    charges. Operating margins for Fluid & Metering
    Technologies of 17.7% in 2008 were down from 20.9% in 2007,
    primarily due to the impact of acquisitions and the
    restructuring-related charges. In the Health & Science
    Technologies Segment, operating income of $58.3 million and
    operating margins of 17.6% in 2008 were down from the
    $61.5 million and 18.8% recorded in 2007, principally due
    to recent acquisitions and the restructuring-related charges. In
    the Dispensing Equipment Segment, an operating loss of
    $10.7 million and operating margins of (6.6)% in 2008 were
    down from the $39.2 million and 22.0% recorded in 2007, due
    to lower volume as a result of continued deterioration in
    capital spending for both North American and European markets,
    the restructuring-related and goodwill impairment charges and
    selective material cost increases. Operating income and
    operating margins in the Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products Segment of $74.3 million and 24.7%, respectively,
    were higher than the $66.3 million and 23.0% recorded in
    2007, due primarily to favorable product mix, partially offset
    by restructuring-related charges.

Other income of $5.1 million in 2008 was $1.7 million
    higher than the $3.4 million in 2007, due to favorable
    foreign currency translation and higher interest income.

Interest expense decreased to $18.9 million in 2008 from
    $23.4 million in 2007. The decrease was due to a lower
    interest rate environment, the retirement of the
    $150.0 million senior notes to a lower interest rate and
    the conversion of floating-rate debt into fixed-rate debt.



The provision for income taxes decreased to $65.2 million
    in 2008 from $78.5 million in 2007. The effective tax rate
    increased to 33.9% in 2008 from 33.7% in 2007, due to changes in
    the mix of global pre-tax income among taxing jurisdictions.

Income from continuing operations in 2008 was
    $127.0 million, 18% lower than the $154.4 million
    earned in 2007. Diluted earnings per share from continuing
    operations in 2008 of $1.53 decreased $0.35, or 19%, compared
    with the same period of 2007.

Loss from discontinued operations in 2007 was $0.7 million
    or $0.01 per share, which resulted from the operations for
    Halox. The 2007 loss includes $0.7 million loss from
    operations and a $0.1 million loss from the sale of Halox,
    offset by a $0.1 million income adjustment from the sale of
    Lubriquip.

Net income for 2008 was $127.0 million, 17% lower than the
    $153.7 million earned in the same period of 2007. Diluted
    earnings per share in 2008 of $1.53 decreased $0.34, or 18%,
    compared with the same period last year.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources

At December 31, 2009, working capital was
    $262.0 million and the Company’s current ratio was 2.4
    to 1. Cash flows from operating activities decreased
    $10.5 million, or 5%, to $212.5 million in 2009.

Cash flows from operations were more than adequate to fund
    capital expenditures of $25.5 million and
    $28.4 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Capital
    expenditures were generally for machinery and equipment that
    improved productivity and tooling to support the global sourcing
    initiatives, although a portion was for business system
    technology and replacement of equipment and facilities.
    Management believes that the Company has ample capacity in its
    plants and equipment to meet expected needs for future growth in
    the intermediate term.

The Company acquired ADS in January 2008 for cash consideration
    of $156.1 million, Richter in October 2008 for cash
    consideration of $93.3 million and the assumption of
    approximately $8.7 million in debt related items, iPEK in
    October 2008 for cash consideration of $43.1 million and
    the assumption of approximately $1.4 million in debt
    related items, IETG in October 2008 for cash consideration of
    $35.0 million and the assumption of approximately
    $1.9 million in debt related items, Semrock in October 2008
    for cash consideration of $60.6 million and Innovadyne
    Technologies, Inc (“Innovadyne”) for cash
    consideration of $3.3 million. Approximately
    $155.0 million of the cash payment for ADS was financed by
    borrowings under the Company’s credit facility, of which
    $140.0 million was reflected as restricted cash at
    December 31, 2007. Approximately $63.7 million,
    $33.2 million, $20.5 million, $60.0 million and
    $3.3 million of the cash payments for the acquisitions of
    Richter, iPEK, IETG, Semrock and Innovadyne, respectively, were
    financed by borrowings under the Company’s credit facility.

The Company maintains a $600.0 million unsecured domestic,
    multi-currency bank revolving credit facility (“Credit
    Facility”), which expires on December 21, 2011. At
    December 31, 2009 there was $298.7 million outstanding
    under the Credit Facility and outstanding letters of credit
    totaled approximately $7.1 million. The net available
    borrowing under the Credit Facility as of December 31,
    2009, was approximately $294.2 million. Interest is payable
    quarterly on the outstanding borrowings at the bank agent’s
    reference rate. Interest on borrowings based on LIBOR plus an
    applicable margin is payable on the maturity date of the
    borrowing, or quarterly from the effective date for borrowings
    exceeding three months. The applicable margin is based on the
    Company’s senior, unsecured, long-term debt rating and can
    range from 24 basis points to 50 basis points. Based
    on the Company’s BBB rating at December 31, 2009, the
    applicable margin was 40 basis points. An annual Credit
    Facility fee, also based on the Company’s credit rating, is
    currently 10 basis points and is payable quarterly.

At December 31, 2009 the Company had one interest rate
    exchange agreement related to the Credit Facility. The interest
    rate exchange agreement, expiring in January 2011, effectively
    converted $250.0 million of floating-rate debt into
    fixed-rate debt at an interest rate of 3.25%. The fixed rate
    noted above is comprised of the fixed rate on the interest rate
    exchange agreement and the Company’s current margin of
    40 basis points on the Credit Facility.

There are two financial covenants that the Company is required
    to maintain in connection with the Credit Facility and Term
    Loan. As defined in the agreement, the minimum interest coverage
    ratio (operating cash flow to



interest) is 3.0 to 1 and the maximum leverage ratio
    (outstanding debt to operating cash flow) is 3.25 to 1. At
    December 31, 2009, the Company was in compliance with both
    of these financial covenants.

On April 18, 2008, the Company completed a
    $100.0 million unsecured senior bank term loan agreement
    (“Term Loan”), with covenants consistent with the
    existing Credit Facility and a maturity on December 21,
    2011. At December 31, 2009, there was $95.0 million
    outstanding under the Term Loan with $5.0 million included
    within short term borrowings. Interest under the Term Loan is
    based on the bank agent’s reference rate or LIBOR plus an
    applicable margin and is payable at the end of the selected
    interest period, but at least quarterly. The applicable margin
    is based on the Company’s senior, unsecured, long-term debt
    rating and can range from 45 to 100 basis points. Based on
    the Company’s current debt rating, the applicable margin is
    80 basis points. The Term Loan requires repayments of
    $5.0 million and $7.5 million in April of 2010 and
    2011, respectively, with the remaining balance due on
    December 21, 2011. The Company used the proceeds from the
    Term Loan to pay down existing debt outstanding under the Credit
    Facility. The Company currently maintains an interest rate
    exchange agreement related to the Term Loan which expires in
    December 2011. With a current notional amount of
    $95.0 million, the agreement effectively converted
    $100.0 million of floating-rate debt into fixed-rate debt
    at an interest rate of 4.00%. The fixed rate is comprised of the
    fixed rate on the interest rate exchange agreement and the
    Company’s current margin of 80 basis points on the
    Term Loan.

On April 21, 2008, the Company’s Board of Directors
    authorized the repurchase of up to $125.0 million of its
    outstanding common shares. Repurchases under the new program
    will be funded with cash flow generation, and made from time to
    time in either the open market or through private transactions.
    The timing, volume, and nature of share repurchases will be at
    the discretion of management, dependent on market conditions,
    other priorities for cash investment, applicable securities
    laws, and other factors, and may be suspended or discontinued at
    any time. In 2008, 2.3 million shares were purchased at a
    cost of $50.0 million; no shares were purchased in 2009.

Despite the downturn in global financial markets during 2008 and
    2009, the Company has not experienced any liquidity issues and
    we continue to expect that our current liquidity,
    notwithstanding these adverse market conditions, will be
    sufficient to meet our operating requirements, interest on all
    borrowings, required debt repayments, any authorized share
    repurchases, planned capital expenditures, and annual dividend
    payments to holders of common stock during the next twelve
    months. In the event that suitable businesses are available for
    acquisition upon terms acceptable to the Board of Directors, we
    may obtain all or a portion of the financing for the
    acquisitions through the incurrence of additional long-term
    borrowings. However, in light of recent adverse events in global
    financial and economic conditions, we cannot be certain that
    additional financing will be available on satisfactory terms, if
    at all.

Contractual
    Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet
    Arrangements

Our contractual obligations and commercial commitments include
    pension and postretirement medical benefit plans, rental
    payments under operating leases, payments under capital leases,
    and other long-term obligations arising in the ordinary course
    of business. There are no identifiable events or uncertainties,
    including the lowering of our credit rating that would
    accelerate payment or maturity of any of these commitments or
    obligations.

The following table summarizes our significant contractual
    obligations and commercial commitments at December 31,
    2009, and the future periods in which such obligations are
    expected to be settled in cash. In addition, the table reflects
    the timing of principal and interest payments on outstanding
    borrowings. Additional detail



regarding these obligations is provided in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II. Item 8.
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, as referenced in
    the table:

Less

More

Than

1-3

3-5

Than

Payments Due by Period

Total

1 Year

Years

Years

5 Years

(In thousands)

Borrowings (Note 6)(1)

$

415,918

$

20,949

$

394,969

$

—

$

—

Interest rate exchange agreements

10,497

—

10,497

—

—

Operating lease commitments (Note 9)

33,181

8,582

10,458

5,273

8,868

Capital lease obligations(2)

3,965




1,818

Purchase obligations(3)

71,404

66,070

5,221


—

Pension obligations

91,600

7,700

16,700

18,500

48,700

Income tax obligations (ASC 740)(4)

5,285


2,949


1,664

Total contractual obligations(5)

$

631,850

$

104,171

$

441,574

$

25,055

$

61,050

Critical
    Accounting Policies

We believe that the application of the following accounting
    policies, which are important to our financial position and
    results of operations, requires significant judgments and
    estimates on the part of management. For a summary of all of our
    accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed
    below, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data.

Revenue recognition

— The Company
    recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement
    exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or
    determinable, and collectibility of the sales price is
    reasonably assured. For product sales, delivery does not occur
    until the products have been shipped and risk of loss has been
    transferred to the customer. Revenue from services is recognized
    when the services are provided or ratably over the contract
    term. Some arrangements with customers may include multiple
    deliverables, including the combination of products and
    services. In such cases, the Company has identified these as
    separate elements in accordance with ASC

985-65-25

“Revenue Recognition-Multiple-Element
    Arrangements-Recognition” and recognizes revenue consistent
    with the policy for each separate element based on the fair
    value of each accounting unit. Revenues from certain long-term
    contracts are recognized on the

percentage-of-completion

method.

Percentage-of-completion

is measured principally by the percentage of costs incurred to
    date for each contract to the estimated total costs for such
    contract at completion. Provisions for estimated losses on
    uncompleted long-term contracts are made in the period in which
    such losses are determined. Due to uncertainties inherent in the
    estimation process, it is reasonably possible that completion
    costs, including those arising from contract penalty provisions
    and final contract settlements, will be revised in the
    near-term. Such revisions to costs and income are recognized in
    the period in which the revisions are determined.

The Company records allowances for discounts, product returns
    and customer incentives at the time of sale as a reduction of
    revenue as such allowances can be reliably estimated based on
    historical experience and known trends. The Company also offers
    product warranties and accrues its estimated exposure for
    warranty claims at the time of sale based upon the length of the
    warranty period, warranty costs incurred and any other related
    information known to the Company.

Share-based compensation

— The Company
    accounts for stock-based employee compensation under the fair
    value recognition and measurement provisions of ASC Topic 718
    “Compensation — Stock Compensation” and



applies the Binomial lattice option-pricing model to determine
    the fair value of options. The Binomial lattice option-pricing
    model incorporates certain assumptions, such as the expected
    volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected dividend yield,
    expected forfeiture rate and expected life of options, in order
    to arrive at a fair value estimate. As a result, share-based
    compensation expense, as calculated and recorded under ASC 718
    could have been impacted if other assumptions were used.
    Furthermore, if the Company used different assumptions in future
    periods, share-based compensation expense could be impacted in
    future periods. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements in Part II. Item 8. Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information.

Inventory

— The Company states inventories
    at the lower of cost or market. Cost, which includes material,
    labor, and factory overhead, is determined on a FIFO basis. We
    changed our method of accounting for inventory from the LIFO
    method to the FIFO method effective January 1, 2009 and
    applied this change in accounting principle retrospectively to
    all prior periods presented herein (see Note 2 of the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II.
    Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). We
    make adjustments to reduce the cost of inventory to its net
    realizable value, if required, for estimated excess,
    obsolescence or impaired balances. Factors influencing these
    adjustments include changes in market demand, product life cycle
    and engineering changes.

Goodwill, long-lived and intangible
    assets

— The Company evaluates the
    recoverability of certain noncurrent assets utilizing various
    estimation processes. An impairment of a long-lived asset exists
    when the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its fair value,
    and is recorded when the carrying amount is not recoverable
    through future operations. An intangible asset or goodwill
    impairment exists when the carrying amount of intangible assets
    and goodwill exceeds its fair value. Assessments of possible
    impairments of goodwill, long-lived or intangible assets are
    made when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
    carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable through
    future operations. Additionally, testing for possible impairment
    of recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset
    balances is performed annually. The amount and timing of
    impairment charges for these assets require the estimation of
    future cash flows and the fair value of the related assets.

The Company’s business acquisitions result in recording
    goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of
    amortization expense and possible impairment expense that the
    Company will incur in future periods. The Company follows the
    guidance prescribed in ASC 350, “Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets” to test goodwill and intangible assets
    for impairment. Annually, on October 31st, or more
    frequently if triggering events occur, the Company compares the
    fair value of their reporting units to the carrying value of
    each reporting unit to determine if a goodwill impairment exists.

The Company determines the fair value of each reporting unit
    utilizing an income approach (discounted cash flows) weighted
    50% and a market approach consisting of a comparable public
    company EBITDA multiples methodology weighted 50%. To determine
    the reasonableness of the calculated fair values, the Company
    reviews the assumptions to ensure that neither the income
    approach nor the market approach yielded significantly different
    valuations.

The key assumptions are updated each year for each reporting
    unit for the income and market methodology used to determine
    fair value. Various assumptions are utilized including
    forecasted operating results, annual operating plans, strategic
    plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, the
    weighted average cost of capital, comparable transactions,
    market data and EBITDA multiples. The assumptions that have the
    most significant effect on the fair value calculation are the
    weighted average cost of capital, the EBITDA multiples and
    terminal growth rates. The 2009 and 2008 ranges for these three
    assumptions utilized by the Company are as follows:

2009 Range

2008 Range

Assumptions

Weighted average cost of capital

11.0% to 13.7%

12.6% to 13.9%

EBITDA multiples

9.0x to 11.0x

5.8x to 9.0x

Terminal growth rates

3.0% to 3.5%

3.0% to 3.5%

The Company concluded that the fair value of each of its
    reporting units was in excess of its carrying value as of
    October 31, 2009, and thus no goodwill impairment was
    identified. However, a 10% decrease in fair value of the



Banjo or the Water reporting units within the Fluid &
    Metering Technologies Segment could potentially result in a
    goodwill impairment charge at these reporting units. The total
    goodwill balance for these two reporting units as of
    October 31, 2009 was $288.7 million.

Income taxes

— The Company accounts for
    income taxes in accordance with ASC 740 — “Income
    Taxes”. Under ASC 740, deferred income tax assets and
    liabilities are determined based on the estimated future tax
    effects of differences between the financial statement and tax
    bases of assets and liabilities based on currently enacted tax
    laws. The Company’s tax balances are based on
    management’s interpretation of the tax regulations and
    rulings in numerous taxing jurisdictions. Future tax authority
    rulings and changes in tax laws and future tax planning
    strategies could affect the actual effective tax rate and tax
    balances recorded by the Company.

Contingencies and litigation —

We are currently
    involved in certain legal and regulatory proceedings and, as
    required and where it is reasonably possible to do so, we accrue
    estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these
    matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with
    outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential
    results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement
    strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating
    results for any particular quarterly or annual period could be
    materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the
    effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings.

Defined benefit retirement plans

— The
    plan obligations and related assets of the defined benefit
    retirement plans are presented in Note 17 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II. Item 8.
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Plan assets, which
    consist primarily of marketable equity and debt instruments, are
    valued using market quotations. Plan obligations and the annual
    pension expense are determined by consulting with actuaries
    using a number of assumptions provided by the Company. Key
    assumptions in the determination of the annual pension expense
    include the discount rate, the rate of salary increases, and the
    estimated future return on plan assets. To the extent actual
    amounts differ from these assumptions and estimated amounts,
    results could be adversely affected.

Recently
    Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

In August 2009, the FASB issued ASU

2009-05,

“Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic
    820) — Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value”. ASU

2009-05

provides clarification regarding valuation techniques when a
    quoted price in an active market for an identical liability is
    not available in addition to treatment of the existence of
    restrictions that prevent the transfer of a liability. ASU

2009-05

also
    clarifies that both a quoted price in an active market for an
    identical liability at the measurement date and the quoted price
    for an identical liability when traded as an asset in an active
    market (when no adjustments to the quoted price of the asset are
    required) are Level 1 fair value measurements. This
    standard is effective for the first reporting period, including
    interim periods, beginning after issuance. Adoption of ASU

2009-05

did
    not have a material effect on the consolidated financial
    position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.

In July 2009, the ASC became the authoritative source of
    accounting principals to be applied to financial statements
    prepared in accordance with principles generally accepted in the
    U.S. In accordance with the ASC, citations to accounting
    literature in this report are to the relevant topic of the ASC
    or are presented in plain English. This standard is effective
    for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods
    ending after September 15, 2009. The Company adopted this
    standard on its effective date.

In May 2009, the FASB issued an update to ASC 855
    “Subsequent Events.” This standard establishes general
    standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur
    after the balance sheet date, but before the financial
    statements are issued or available to be issued
    (“subsequent events”). This standard requires
    disclosure of the date through which the entity has evaluated
    subsequent events and the basis for that date. For public
    entities, this is the date the financial statements are issued.
    This standard does not apply to subsequent events or
    transactions that are within the scope of other principles
    generally accepted in the U.S. and will not result in
    significant changes in the subsequent events reported by the
    Company. This standard is effective for interim or annual
    periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company adopted
    this standard on its effective date.

In April 2009, the FASB issued an update to ASC 820 “Fair
    Value Measurements and Disclosures” and ASC 270
    “Interim Reporting.” This standard requires
    disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in interim
    and



annual financial statements. This standard is effective for
    periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company adopted
    this standard on its effective date.

In December 2008, the FASB issued ASC 715
    “Compensation-Retirement Benefits.” This standard
    provides additional guidance on employers’ disclosures
    about the plan assets of defined benefit pension or other
    postretirement plans. ASC 715 requires disclosures about how
    investment allocation decisions are made, the fair value of each
    major category of plan assets, valuation techniques used to
    develop fair value measurements of plan assets, the impact of
    measurements on changes in plan assets when using significant
    unobservable inputs and significant concentrations of risk in
    the plan assets. These disclosures are required for fiscal years
    ending after December 15, 2009. The Company adopted this
    standard on its effective date.

In June 2008, the FASB issued an update to ASC 260
    “Earnings Per Share.” This standard addresses whether
    instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are
    participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need
    to be included in the allocation in computing earnings per share
    under the two-class method described in ASC 260. The FASB
    concluded that all outstanding unvested share-based payment
    awards that contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends
    participate in undistributed earnings with common shareholders.
    If awards are considered participating securities, the Company
    is required to apply the two-class method of computing basic and
    diluted earnings per share. The Company determined that its
    outstanding unvested shares are participating securities.
    Accordingly, effective January 1, 2009, earnings per common
    share are computed using the two-class method prescribed by ASC
    260. All previously reported earnings per common share data has
    been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the new computation
    method (see EPS in Note 1).

In December 2007, the FASB issued an update to ASC 805
    “Business Combinations.” The objective of the standard
    is to establish principles and requirements for how an acquirer
    in a business combination recognizes and measures in its
    financial statements, the identifiable assets acquired, the
    liabilities assumed, and any controlling interest; recognizes
    and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination
    or a gain from a bargain purchase; and determines what
    information to disclose to enable users of the financial
    statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the
    business combination. This standard is to be applied
    prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition
    date is on or after an entity’s fiscal year that begins
    after December 15, 2008. Upon adoption, ASC 805 did not
    have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated
    results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
    However, depending on the nature of an acquisition or the
    quantity of acquisitions entered into after the adoption, ASC
    805 may significantly impact the Company’s
    consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
    flows when compared to acquisitions accounted for under prior
    U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
    (“GAAP”) and result in more earnings volatility and
    generally lower earnings due to, among other items, the
    expensing of deal costs and restructuring costs of acquired
    companies.

New
    Accounting Pronouncements

In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU

No. 2009-13,

“Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) —
    Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements.” ASU

No. 2009-13

addresses the accounting for multiple-deliverable arrangements
    to enable vendors to account for products or services
    (deliverables) separately rather than as a combined unit. This
    guidance establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining
    the selling price of a deliverable, which is based on:
    (a) vendor-specific objective evidence;
    (b) third-party evidence; or (c) estimates. This
    guidance also eliminates the residual method of allocation and
    requires that arrangement consideration be allocated at the
    inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the
    relative selling price method. In addition, this guidance
    significantly expands required disclosures related to a
    vendor’s multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. ASU

No. 2009-13

is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into
    or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after
    June 15, 2010 and early adoption is permitted. A company
    may elect, but will not be required, to adopt the amendments in
    ASU

No. 2009-13

retrospectively for all prior periods. Management is currently
    evaluating the requirements of ASU

No. 2009-13

and has not yet determined the impact on the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements.



Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The Company is subject to market risk associated with changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We may, from
    time to time, enter into foreign currency forward contracts and
    interest rate exchange agreements on our debt when we believe
    there is a financial advantage in doing so. A treasury risk
    management policy, adopted by the Board of Directors, describes
    the procedures and controls over derivative financial and
    commodity instruments, including foreign currency forward
    contracts and interest rate swaps. Under the policy, we do not
    use derivative financial or commodity instruments for trading
    purposes, and the use of these instruments is subject to strict
    approvals by senior officers. Typically, the use of derivative
    instruments is limited to foreign currency forward contracts and
    interest rate exchange agreements on the Company’s
    outstanding long-term debt. The Company’s exposure related
    to derivative instruments is, in the aggregate, not material to
    its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

The Company’s foreign currency exchange rate risk is
    limited principally to the Euro, Canadian Dollar, British Pound
    and Chinese Renminbi. We manage our foreign exchange risk
    principally through invoicing our customers in the same currency
    as the source of our products. The effect of transaction gains
    and losses is reported within “Other

income-net”

on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The Company’s interest rate exposure is primarily related
    to the $400.1 million of total debt outstanding at
    December 31, 2009. The majority of the debt is priced at
    interest rates that float with the market. In order to mitigate
    this interest exposure, the Company entered into interest rate
    exchange agreements that effectively converted
    $345.0 million of our floating-rate debt outstanding at
    December 31, 2009 to a fixed-rate. A 50-basis point
    movement in the interest rate on the remaining
    $55.1 million floating-rate debt would result in an
    approximate $0.3 million annualized increase or decrease in
    interest expense and cash flows.



Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.

IDEX
    CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

As of December 31,



(In thousands except share and per share amounts)

ASSETS

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

73,526

$

61,353

Receivables — net

183,178

205,269

Inventories

159,463

181,200

Other current assets

35,545

32,866

Total current assets

451,712

480,688

Property, plant and equipment — net

178,283

186,283

Goodwill

1,180,445

1,167,063

Intangible assets — net

281,354

303,226

Other noncurrent assets

6,363

14,540

Total assets

$

2,098,157

$

2,151,800

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities

Trade accounts payable

$

73,020

$

87,304

Accrued expenses

98,730

117,186

Short-term borrowings

8,346

5,856

Dividends payable

9,586

9,523

Total current liabilities

189,682

219,869

Long-term borrowings

391,754

548,144

Deferred income taxes

148,806

141,984

Other noncurrent liabilities

99,811

97,020

Total liabilities

830,053

1,007,017

Commitments and contingencies (Note 9)

Shareholders’ equity

Preferred stock:

Authorized: 5,000,000 shares, $.01 per share par value;
    Issued: none

—

—

Common stock:

Authorized: 150,000,000 shares, $.01 per share par value;
    Issued: 83,510,320 shares at December 31, 2009 and
    82,786,045 shares at December 31, 2008



Additional paid-in capital

401,570

377,154

Retained earnings

896,977

822,286

Treasury stock at cost: 2,540,052 shares at
    December 31, 2009 and 2,483,955 shares at
    December 31, 2008

(56,706

)

(55,393

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

25,428

(92

)

Total shareholders’ equity

1,268,104

1,144,783

Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity

$

2,098,157

$

2,151,800

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



IDEX
    CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the Years Ended December 31,




(In thousands except per share amounts)

Net sales

$

1,329,661

$

1,489,471

$

1,358,631

Cost of sales

807,275

892,038

792,470

Gross profit

522,386

597,433

566,161

Selling, general and administrative expenses

325,453

343,392

313,366

Goodwill impairment

—

30,090

—

Restructuring expenses

12,079

17,995

—

Operating income

184,854

205,956

252,795

Other income — net

1,151

5,123

3,434

Interest expense

17,178

18,852

23,353

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

168,827

192,227

232,876

Provision for income taxes

55,436

65,201

78,457

Income from continuing operations

113,391

127,026

154,419

Net loss from discontinued operations, net of tax

—

—

(719

)

Net income

$

113,391

$

127,026

$

153,700

Basic earnings per common share:

Continuing operations

$

1.41

$

1.55

$

1.90

Discontinued operations

—

—

(0.01

)

Net income

$

1.41

$

1.55

$

1.89

Diluted earnings per common share:

Continuing operations

$

1.40

$

1.53

$

1.88

Discontinued operations

—

—

(0.01

)

Net income

$

1.40

$

1.53

$

1.87

Share data:

Basic weighted average common shares outstanding

79,716

81,123

80,666

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding

80,727

82,320

82,086

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



IDEX
    CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Net Actuarial

Losses and

Cumulative

Prior Service

Unrealized

Costs on

Loss

Pensions

on

and Other

Derivatives

Common

Post-

Designated

Stock and

Cumulative

Retirement

as Cash

Total

Additional

Retained

Translation

Benefit

Flow

Treasury

Shareholders’

Paid-In Capital

Earnings

Adjustment

Plans

Hedges

Stock

Equity

(In thousands except share and per share amounts)

Balance, December 31, 2006, as previously stated

$

317,955

$

638,579

$

52,295

$

(26,309

)

$

—

$

(3,248

)

$

979,272

Impact of adopting change in accounting related to inventory
    (see Note 2)

—

(17,331

)


—

—

—

(17,184

)

Balance, December 31, 2006, as restated

$

317,955

$

621,248

$

52,442

$

(26,309

)

$

—

$

(3,248

)

$

962,088

Net income

—

153,700

—

—

—

—

153,700

Other comprehensive income, net of tax:

Cumulative translation adjustment

—

—

33,573

—

—

—

33,573

Adjustment to pension and other benefit liabilities

—

—

—

5,934

—

—

5,934

Other comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

39,507

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

193,207

Cumulative effect of change in accounting for uncertainties in
    income taxes (ASC 740 — See Note 11)

—

(1,204

)

—

—

—

—

(1,204

)

Issuance of 892,438 shares of common stock from exercise of
    stock options and deferred compensation plans

16,742

—

—

—

—

—

16,742

Share-based compensation

12,570

—

—

—

—

—

12,570

Unvested shares surrendered for tax withholding

—

—

—

—

—

(1,195

)

(1,195

)

Cash dividends declared-$.48 per common share outstanding

—

(39,001

)

—

—

—

—

(39,001

)

Balance, December 31, 2007

$

347,267

$

734,743

$

86,015

$

(20,375

)

$

—

$

(4,443

)

$

1,143,207

Net income

—

127,026

—

—

—

—

127,026

Other comprehensive income, net of tax:

Cumulative translation adjustment

—

—

(45,863

)

—

—

—

(45,863

)

Adjustment to pension and other benefit liabilities

—

—

—

(13,279

)

—

—

(13,279

)

Unrealized derivative losses

—

—

—

—

(6,642

)

—

(6,642

)

Other comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

(65,784

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

61,242

Cumulative effect of change in measurement date of foreign plans
    under ASC 715

—

(351

)


—

—

—

(299

)

Issuance of 597,863 shares of common stock from exercise of
    stock options and deferred compensation plans

15,701

—

—

—

—

—

15,701

Share-based compensation

15,014

—

—

—

—

—

15,014

Repurchase of 2.3 million shares of common stock

—

—

—

—

—

(50,000

)

(50,000

)

Unvested shares surrendered for tax withholding

—

—

—

—

—

(950

)

(950

)

Cash dividends declared — $.48 per common share
    outstanding

—

(39,132

)

—

—

—

—

(39,132

)

Balance, December 31, 2008

$

377,982

$

822,286

$

40,204

$

(33,654

)

$

(6,642

)

$

(55,393

)

$

1,144,783

Net income

—

113,391

—

—

—

—

113,391

Other comprehensive income, net of tax:

Cumulative translation adjustment

—

—

19,195

—

—

—

19,195

Amortization of retirement obligations

—

—

—

6,396

—

—

6,396

Unrealized loss on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

(71

)

—

(71

)

Other comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

25,520

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

—

—

—

138,911

Issuance of 744,827 shares of common stock from issuance of
    unvested shares, exercise of stock options and deferred
    compensation plans

8,713

—

—

—

—

—

8,713

Share-based compensation

15,710

—

—

—

—

—

15,710

Unvested shares surrendered for tax withholding

—

—

—

—

—

(1,313

)

(1,313

)

Cash dividends declared — $.48 per common share
    outstanding

—

(38,700

)

—

—

—

—

(38,700

)

Balance, December 31, 2009

$

402,405

$

896,977

$

59,399

$

(27,258

)

$

(6,713

)

$

(56,706

)

$

1,268,104

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



IDEX
    CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations

Net income

$

113,391

$

127,026

$

153,700

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:

Loss from discontinued operations

—

—


Loss (gain) on sale of fixed assets


—

(371

)

Goodwill impairment

—

30,090

—

Depreciation and amortization

31,850

30,989

28,316

Amortization of intangible assets

24,496

17,610

9,722

Amortization of debt issuance expenses




Share-based compensation expense

15,710

15,014

12,570

Deferred income taxes

1,081

(10,817

)

1,470

Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation

(2,762

)

(3,134

)

(5,390

)

Changes in (net of the effect from acquisitions):

Receivables

26,069

19,667

(8,714

)

Inventories

23,149

(4,389

)

(191

)

Trade accounts payable

(16,310

)

(6,385

)


Accrued expenses

(14,294

)

1,215

4,141

Other — net

9,397

5,886

1,754

Net cash flows provided by operating activities of continuing
    operations

212,532

223,060

198,994

Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

(25,059

)

(27,837

)

(24,498

)

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired

—

(392,825

)

(86,207

)

Proceeds from the sale of discontinued businesses

—

—


Proceeds from fixed assets disposals

3,582

—


Changes in restricted cash

—

140,005

(140,005

)

Other — net

1,860

—

1,500

Net cash flows used in investing activities of continuing
    operations

(19,617

)

(280,657

)

(248,596

)

Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations

Borrowings under credit facilities for acquisitions

—

180,665

209,132

Borrowings under credit facilities and term loan

70,114

483,044

46,947

Payments under credit facilities and term loan

(225,604

)

(413,207

)

(166,423

)

Payment of senior notes

—

(150,000

)

—

Dividends paid

(38,637

)

(39,398

)

(37,267

)

Distributions to discontinued operations

—

—

(664

)

Proceeds from stock option exercises

7,694

10,421

13,996

Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation

2,762

3,134

5,390

Purchase of common stock

—

(50,000

)

—

Other — net

(1,313

)

(1,980

)

(241

)

Net cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities of
    continuing operations

(184,984

)

22,679

70,870

Cash flows from discontinued operations

Net cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations

—

—

(869

)

Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations

—

—

—

Net cash provided by financing activities of discontinued
    operations

—

—


Net cash flows used in discontinued operations

—

—

(2

)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

4,242

(6,486

)

3,548

Net increase (decrease) in cash

12,173

(41,404

)

24,814

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

61,353

102,757

77,943

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

73,526

$

61,353

$

102,757

Supplemental cash flow information

Cash paid for:

Interest

$

17,311

$

20,139

$

22,974

Income taxes

50,796

72,074

78,052

Significant non-cash activities:

Debt acquired with acquisition of business

—

—

1,571

Capital expenditures included in accounts payable




Issuance of unvested shares

5,131

—

—

Non-cash capital expenditures

—

—

1,437

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.

Significant
    Accounting Policies

Business

IDEX Corporation is an applied solutions company specializing in
    fluid and metering technologies, health and science
    technologies, dispensing equipment, and fire, safety and other
    diversified products built to its customers’
    specifications. Its products are sold in niche markets to a wide
    range of industries throughout the world. The Company’s
    products include industrial pumps, compressors, flow meters,
    injectors and valves, and related controls for use in a wide
    variety of process applications; precision fluidics solutions,
    including pumps, valves, degassing equipment, corrective tubing,
    fittings, and complex manifolds, as well as specialty medical
    equipment and devices used in life science applications;
    precision-engineered equipment for dispensing, metering and
    mixing paints, and personal care products; refinishing
    equipment; and engineered products for industrial and commercial
    markets, including fire and rescue, transportation equipment,
    oil and gas, electronics, and communications. These activities
    are grouped into four reportable segments: Fluid &
    Metering Technologies, Health & Science Technologies,
    Dispensing Equipment, and Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products.

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the Company and
    its subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and accounts
    have been eliminated.

Use of
    Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America requires management to make estimates and judgments that
    affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
    disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and reported
    amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
    Actual results could differ from those estimates. The principal
    areas of estimation reflected in the financial statements are
    sales returns and allowances, allowance for doubtful accounts,
    inventory valuation, recoverability of long-lived assets,
    performing annual goodwill and intangible and long lived asset
    impairment analyses, income taxes, product warranties,
    derivatives, contingencies and litigation, insurance-related
    items, share-based compensation and defined benefit retirement
    plans.

Revenue
    Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an
    arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is
    fixed or determinable, and collectibility of the sales price is
    reasonably assured. For product sales, delivery does not occur
    until the products have been shipped and risk of loss has been
    transferred to the customer. Revenue from services is recognized
    when the services are provided or ratably over the contract
    term. Some arrangements with customers may include multiple
    deliverables, including the combination of products and
    services. In such cases the Company has identified these as
    separate elements in accordance with ASC 985 and recognizes
    revenue consistent with the policy for each separate element
    based on the fair value of each accounting unit. Revenues from
    certain long-term contracts are recognized on the

percentage-of-completion

method.

Percentage-of-completion

is measured principally by the percentage of costs incurred to
    date for each contract to the estimated total costs for such
    contract at completion. Provisions for estimated losses on
    uncompleted long-term contracts are made in the period in which
    such losses are determined. Due to uncertainties inherent in the
    estimation process, it is reasonably possible that completion
    costs, including those arising from contract penalty provisions
    and final contract settlements, will be revised in the
    near-term. Such revisions to costs and income are recognized in
    the period in which the revisions are determined.

The Company records allowances for discounts, product returns
    and customer incentives at the time of sale as a reduction of
    revenue as such allowances can be reliably estimated based on
    historical experience and known trends. The Company also offers
    product warranties and accrues its estimated exposure for
    warranty claims at the time of sale based upon the length of the
    warranty period, warranty costs incurred and any other related
    information known to the Company.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Cash and
    Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments
    purchased with an original maturity of three or fewer months to
    be cash and cash equivalents.

Inventories

The Company states inventories at the lower of cost or market.
    Cost, which includes material, labor, and factory overhead, is
    determined on a FIFO basis. We changed our method of accounting
    for inventory from the LIFO method to the FIFO method effective
    January 1, 2009 and applied this change in accounting
    principle retrospectively to all prior periods presented herein
    (see Note 2). We make adjustments to reduce the cost of
    inventory to its net realizable value, if required, at the
    business unit level for estimated excess, obsolescence or
    impaired balances. Factors influencing these adjustments include
    changes in market demand, product life cycle and engineering
    changes.

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets

Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment upon the
    occurrence of events or changes in circumstances that indicate
    that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable, as
    measured by comparing their net book value to the projected
    undiscounted future cash flows generated by their use. Impaired
    assets are recorded at their estimated fair value using a
    discounted cash flow analysis.

Goodwill
    and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

The Company reviews the carrying value of goodwill and
    indefinite-lived intangible assets annually on
    October 31st, or upon the occurrence of events or changes
    in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value of the
    goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable, in
    accordance with ASC 350. The Company evaluates the
    recoverability of each of these assets based on the estimated
    fair value of each of the eleven reporting units and
    indefinite-lived intangible asset. See Note 5 for a further
    discussion on goodwill and intangible assets.

Borrowing
    Expenses

Expenses incurred in securing and issuing debt are amortized
    over the life of the related borrowing and are included in
    Interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Earnings
    per Common Share

Earnings per common share (“EPS”) is computed by
    dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of
    common stock (basic) plus common stock equivalents and unvested
    shares (diluted) outstanding during the year. Common stock
    equivalents consist of stock options and deferred compensation
    units (“DCUs”) and have been included in the
    calculation of weighted average shares outstanding using the
    treasury stock method.

ASC 260 concludes that all outstanding unvested share-based
    payment awards that contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends
    participate in undistributed earnings with common shareholders.
    If awards are considered participating securities, the Company
    is required to apply the two-class method of computing basic and
    diluted earnings per share. The Company has determined that its
    outstanding unvested shares are participating securities.
    Accordingly, effective January 1, 2009, earnings per common
    share were computed using the two-class method prescribed by ASC
    260. All previously reported earnings per common share data has
    been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the new computation
    method. Net income attributable to common shareholders was
    reduced by $0.8 million, $0.9 million and
    $0.8 million in December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Basic weighted average shares outstanding reconciles to diluted
    weighted average shares outstanding as follows:




(In thousands)

Basic weighted average common shares outstanding

79,716

81,123

80,666

Dilutive effect of stock options, DCUs and unvested shares

1,011

1,197

1,420

Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding

80,727

82,320

82,086

Options to purchase approximately 2.2 million,
    3.3 million and 1.7 million shares of common stock as
    of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were not
    included in the computation of diluted EPS because the exercise
    price was greater than the average market price of the
    Company’s common stock and, therefore, the effect of their
    inclusion would have been antidilutive.

Share-Based
    Compensation

The Company accounts for share-based payments in accordance with
    ASC 718. Accordingly, the Company expenses the fair value of
    awards made under its share-based plans. That cost is recognized
    in the consolidated financial statements over the requisite
    service period of the grants. See Note 16 for further
    discussion on share-based compensation.

Depreciation
    and Amortization

Property and equipment are stated at cost, with depreciation and
    amortization provided using the straight-line method over the
    following estimated useful lives:

Land improvements

8 to 12 years

Buildings and improvements

8 to 30 years

Machinery and equipment and engineering drawings

3 to 12 years

Office and transportation equipment

3 to 10 years

Certain identifiable intangible assets are amortized over their
    estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The
    estimated useful lives used in the computation of amortization
    of identifiable intangible assets are as follows:

Patents

5 to 17 years

Trade names

3 to 20 years

Customer relationships

3 to 20 years

Non-compete agreements

2 to 5 years

Unpatented technology and other

5 to 20 years

Research
    and Development Expenditures

Costs associated with research and development are expensed in
    the period incurred and are included in “Cost of
    sales” within the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
    Research and development expenses, which include costs
    associated with developing new products and major improvements
    to existing products were $29.6 million, $29.5 million
    and $28.1 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Foreign
    Currency Translation

The functional currency of substantially all operations outside
    the United States is the respective local currency. Accordingly,
    those foreign currency balance sheet accounts have been
    translated using the exchange rates in effect as of the balance
    sheet date. Income statement amounts have been translated using
    the average exchange rate for the year. The gains and losses
    resulting from changes in exchange rates from year to year have
    been reported



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” in
    the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The effect of transaction gains
    and losses is reported within “Other

income-net”

on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Income
    Taxes

Income tax expense includes United States, state, local and
    international income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
    are recognized for the tax consequences of temporary differences
    between the financial reporting and the tax basis of existing
    assets and liabilities. The tax rate used to determine the
    deferred tax assets and liabilities is the enacted tax rate for
    the year and manner in which the differences are expected to
    reverse. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred
    tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be
    realized.

Concentration
    of Credit Risk

The Company is not dependent on a single customer, the largest
    of which accounted for less than 3% of net sales for all years
    presented.

Recently
    Adopted Accounting Pronouncements

In August 2009, the FASB issued ASU

2009-05,

“Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic
    820) — Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value”. ASU

2009-05

provides clarification regarding valuation techniques when a
    quoted price in an active market for an identical liability is
    not available in addition to treatment of the existence of
    restrictions that prevent the transfer of a liability. ASU

2009-05

also
    clarifies that both a quoted price in an active market for an
    identical liability at the measurement date and the quoted price
    for an identical liability when traded as an asset in an active
    market (when no adjustments to the quoted price of the asset are
    required) are Level 1 fair value measurements. This
    standard is effective for the first reporting period, including
    interim periods, beginning after issuance. Adoption of ASU

2009-05

did
    not have a material effect on the consolidated financial
    position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.

In July 2009, the ASC became the authoritative source of
    accounting principals to be applied to financial statements
    prepared in accordance with GAAP. In accordance with the ASC,
    citations to accounting literature in this report are to the
    relevant topic of the ASC or are presented in plain English.
    This standard is effective for financial statements issued for
    interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009.
    The Company adopted this standard on its effective date.

In May 2009, the FASB issued an update to ASC 855
    “Subsequent Events.” This standard establishes general
    standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur
    after the balance sheet date, but before the financial
    statements are issued or available to be issued
    (“subsequent events”). This standard requires
    disclosure of the date through which the entity has evaluated
    subsequent events and the basis for that date. For public
    entities, this is the date the financial statements are issued.
    This standard does not apply to subsequent events or
    transactions that are within the scope of other GAAP and will
    not result in significant changes in the subsequent events
    reported by the Company. This standard is effective for interim
    or annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company
    adopted this standard on its effective date.

In April 2009, the FASB issued an update to ASC 820 “Fair
    Value Measurements and Disclosures” and ASC 270
    “Interim Reporting.” This standard requires
    disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in interim
    and annual financial statements. This standard is effective for
    periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company adopted
    this standard on its effective date.

In December 2008, the FASB issued ASC 715
    “Compensation-Retirement Benefits.” This standard
    provides additional guidance on employers’ disclosures
    about the plan assets of defined benefit pension or other
    postretirement plans. ASC 715 requires disclosures about how
    investment allocation decisions are made, the fair value of each
    major category of plan assets, valuation techniques used to
    develop fair value measurements of plan assets, the



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

impact of measurements on changes in plan assets when using
    significant unobservable inputs and significant concentrations
    of risk in the plan assets. These disclosures are required for
    fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. The Company
    adopted this standard on its effective date.

In June 2008, the FASB issued an update to ASC 260
    “Earnings Per Share.” This standard addresses whether
    instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are
    participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need
    to be included in the allocation in computing earnings per share
    under the two-class method described in ASC 260. The FASB
    concluded that all outstanding unvested share-based payment
    awards that contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends
    participate in undistributed earnings with common shareholders.
    If awards are considered participating securities, the Company
    is required to apply the two-class method of computing basic and
    diluted earnings per share. The Company determined that its
    outstanding unvested shares are participating securities.
    Accordingly, effective January 1, 2009, earnings per common
    share are computed using the two-class method prescribed by ASC
    260. All previously reported earnings per common share data has
    been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the new computation
    method (see EPS in Note 1).

In December 2007, the FASB issued an update to ASC 805
    “Business Combinations.” The objective of the standard
    is to establish principles and requirements for how an acquirer
    in a business combination recognizes and measures in its
    financial statements, the identifiable assets acquired, the
    liabilities assumed, and any controlling interest; recognizes
    and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination
    or a gain from a bargain purchase; and determines what
    information to disclose to enable users of the financial
    statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the
    business combination. This standard is to be applied
    prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition
    date is on or after an entity’s fiscal year that begins
    after December 15, 2008. Upon adoption, ASC 805 did not
    have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated
    results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
    However, depending on the nature of an acquisition or the
    quantity of acquisitions entered into after the adoption, ASC
    805 may significantly impact the Company’s
    consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
    flows when compared to acquisitions accounted for under prior
    U.S. GAAP and result in more earnings volatility and
    generally lower earnings due to, among other items, the
    expensing of deal costs and restructuring costs of acquired
    companies.

New
    Accounting Pronouncements

In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU

No. 2009-13,

“Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) —
    Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements.” ASU

No. 2009-13

addresses the accounting for multiple-deliverable arrangements
    to enable vendors to account for products or services
    (deliverables) separately rather than as a combined unit. This
    guidance establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining
    the selling price of a deliverable, which is based on:
    (a) vendor-specific objective evidence;
    (b) third-party evidence; or (c) estimates. This
    guidance also eliminates the residual method of allocation and
    requires that arrangement consideration be allocated at the
    inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the
    relative selling price method. In addition, this guidance
    significantly expands required disclosures related to a
    vendor’s multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. ASU

No. 2009-13

is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into
    or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after
    June 15, 2010 and early adoption is permitted. A company
    may elect, but will not be required, to adopt the amendments in
    ASU

No. 2009-13

retrospectively for all prior periods. Management is currently
    evaluating the requirements of ASU

No. 2009-13

and has not yet determined the impact on the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements.

2.

Inventory

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost,
    which includes material, labor, and factory overhead, is
    determined on a FIFO basis.

Prior to January 1, 2009, we valued certain inventories
    under the LIFO cost method. As of January 1, 2009, we
    changed our method of accounting for these inventories from the
    LIFO method to the FIFO method. As of



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

December 31, 2008, the inventories for which the LIFO
    method of accounting was applied represented approximately 85%
    of total net inventories. We believe that this change is to a
    preferable method which better reflects the current cost of
    inventory on our consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, this
    change conforms all of our worldwide inventories to a consistent
    inventory costing method and provides better comparability to
    our peers. We applied this change in accounting principle
    retrospectively to all prior periods presented herein in
    accordance with ASC 250 “Accounting Changes and Error
    Corrections.” As a result of this accounting change, our
    retained earnings as of December 31, 2006 decreased to
    $621.2 million using the FIFO method from
    $638.6 million as originally reported using the LIFO
    method. The following tables summarize the effect of the
    accounting change on our consolidated financial statements.

Year Ended December 31, 2009

Computed

Under Prior

Effect of

As Computed

Method

Change

Under FIFO

(Thousands, except per share data)

Statement of Operations:

Cost of sales

$

803,536

$

3,739

$

807,275

Income taxes

56,662

(1,226

)

55,436

Net income

115,904

(2,513

)

113,391

Earnings per common share:

Basic

1.44

(0.03

)

1.41

Diluted

1.43

(0.03

)

1.40

Statement of Cash Flows:

Net income

115,904

(2,513

)

113,391

Deferred income taxes

2,307

(1,226

)

1,081

Changes in inventories

19,410

3,739

23,149

Net cash provided by operating activities

212,532

—

212,532

Year Ended December 31, 2008

Computed

As Computed

Under Prior

Effect of

Under

Method

Change

FIFO

(Thousands, except per share data)

Statement of Operations:

Cost of sales

$

885,562

$

6,476

$

892,038

Income taxes

67,343

(2,142

)

65,201

Net income

131,360

(4,334

)

127,026

Earnings per common share:

Basic

1.60

(0.05

)

1.55

Diluted

1.59

(0.06

)

1.53

Statement of Cash Flows:

Net income

131,360

(4,334

)

127,026

Accrued expenses



1,215

Deferred income taxes

(8,196

)

(2,621

)

(10,817

)

Changes in inventories

(9,659

)

5,270

(4,389

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

224,131

(1,071

)

223,060



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Year Ended December 31, 2007

Computed

Under Prior

Effect of

As Computed

Method

Change

Under FIFO

(Thousands, except per share data)

Statement of Operations:

Cost of sales

$

790,182

$

2,288

$

792,470

Income taxes

79,300

(843

)

78,457

Net income

155,145

(1,445

)

153,700

Earnings per common share:

Basic

1.91

(0.02

)

1.89

Diluted

1.89

(0.02

)

1.87

Statement of Cash Flows:

Net income

155,145

(1,445

)

153,700

Deferred income taxes

2,449

(979

)

1,470

Changes in inventories

(3,502

)

3,311

(191

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

198,107


198,994

As of December 31, 2009

As of December 31, 2008

Computed

As Computed

Computed

As Computed

Under

Effect of

Under

Under Prior

Effect of

Under

Balance Sheet:

Prior Method

Change

FIFO

Method

Change

FIFO

Inventories

$

196,162

$

(36,699

)

$

159,463

$

214,160

$

(32,960

)

$

181,200

Other current assets (prepaid taxes)

25,876

9,669

35,545

24,423

8,443

32,866

Accrued expenses (income tax payable)

98,116


98,730

116,572


117,186

Deferred income tax liability

151,158

(2,352

)

148,806

144,336

(2,352

)

141,984

Cumulative translation adjustment

59,137


59,399

39,873


40,204

Retained earnings

922,600

(25,623

)

896,977

845,396

(23,110

)

822,286

3.

Restructuring

Since mid-2008, we have recorded restructuring costs as a result
    of cost reduction efforts and facility closings. Accruals have
    been recorded based on these costs and primarily consist of
    employee termination benefits. We record accruals for employee
    termination benefits based on the guidance of ASC 420 “Exit
    or Disposal Cost Obligations.” These expenses are included
    in Restructuring expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
    Operations while the restructuring accruals are included in
    Accrued expenses in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

    Initiatives

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company
    recorded pre-tax restructuring expenses totaling
    $12.1 million for employee severance related to employee
    reductions across various functional areas as well as facility
    closures resulting from the Company’s cost savings
    initiatives. These initiatives included severance benefits for
    478 employees. The Company is anticipating the employee
    reductions to be completed by mid 2010 with an expected
    additional total cost of $4.0 — $5.0 million in
    2010, with severance payments expected to be fully paid by the
    end of 2011 using cash from operations.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

    Initiatives

In 2008, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring expenses
    totaling $18.0 million for employee severance related to
    employee reductions across various functional areas as well as
    facility closures resulting from our cost savings initiatives.
    These initiatives included severance benefits for
    380 employees. These employee reductions were completed by
    the end of 2008.

Pre-tax restructuring expenses, by segment for the year ended
    December 31, 2009, were as follows:

Severance

Costs

Exit Costs

Total

(In thousands)

Fluid & Metering Technologies

$

2,694

$

1,364

$

4,058

Health & Science Technologies

2,201

1,303

3,504

Dispensing Equipment

1,155


2,015

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products

1,308

—

1,308

Corporate/Other



1,194

Total restructuring costs

$

7,846

$

4,233

$

12,079

Pre-tax restructuring expenses, by segment for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, were as follows:

Severance

Costs

Exit Costs

Total

(In thousands)

Fluid & Metering Technologies

$

3,978

$

1,177

$

5,155

Health & Science Technologies

3,226

1,015

4,241

Dispensing Equipment

4,256

1,311

5,567

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products


—


Corporate/Other

1,898


2,309

Total restructuring costs

$

14,081

$

3,914

$

17,995

Restructuring accruals of $6.9 million and
    $9.3 million at December 31, 2009 and
    December 31, 2008, respectively, are reflected in Accrued
    expenses in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows:



Initiatives

Initiatives

Total

(In thousands)

BALANCE AT JANUARY 1, 2008

$

—

$

—

$

—

Restructuring costs/reversals

17,995

—

17,995

Payments/utilization

(8,732

)

—

(8,732

)

BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2008

9,263

—

9,263

Restructuring costs/reversals


11,251

12,079

Acquisition related

—

3,927

3,927

Payments/utilization

(10,091

)

(8,300

)

(18,391

)

BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2009

$

—

$

6,878

$

6,878



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

4.

Balance
    Sheet Components

The components of certain balance sheet accounts at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows:



(In thousands)

RECEIVABLES

Customers

$

185,926

$

205,776

Other

3,412

5,093

Total

189,338

210,869

Less allowance for doubtful accounts

6,160

5,600

Total receivables — net

$

183,178

$

205,269

INVENTORIES

Raw materials and components parts

$

101,314

$

110,290

Work in process

18,978

22,483

Finished goods

39,171

48,427

Total inventories

$

159,463

$

181,200

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Land and improvements

$

19,776

$

19,918

Buildings and improvements

125,735

119,549

Machinery and equipment

235,219

246,052

Office and transportation equipment

91,706

92,555

Engineering drawings

1,869

2,510

Construction in progress

9,360

14,334

Total

483,665

494,918

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

305,382

308,635

Total property, plant and equipment — net

$

178,283

$

186,283

ACCRUED EXPENSES

Payroll and related items

$

39,315

$

45,162

Management incentive compensation

12,157

10,078

Income taxes payable

3,757

8,275

Deferred income taxes


1,471

Insurance

4,375

9,964

Warranty

4,383

3,751

Deferred revenue

4,480

2,600

Restructuring

6,878

9,263

Other

23,329

26,622

Total accrued expenses

$

98,730

$

117,186



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)



(In thousands)

OTHER NONCURRENT LIABILITIES

Pension and retiree medical obligations

$

67,426

$

76,488

Liability for uncertain tax positions

6,398

4,758

Derivative financial instruments

10,497

10,098

Deferred revenue

5,353


Other

10,137

5,197

Total other noncurrent liabilities

$

99,811

$

97,020

5.

Goodwill
    and Intangible Assets

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years
    ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, by business segment, were
    as follows:

Fluid &

Health &

Fire & Safety/

Metering

Science

Dispensing

Diversified

Technologies

Technologies

Equipment

Products

Total

(In thousands)

Goodwill

$

341,521

$

353,060

$

137,390

$

151,707

$

983,678

Accumulated impairment losses

(6,659

)

—

—

—

(6,659

)

BALANCE AT JANUARY 1, 2008

334,862

353,060

137,390

151,707

977,019

Acquisitions (Note 14)

202,549

39,551

—

—

242,100

Foreign currency translation

(11,841

)

(35

)

(3,830

)

(4,155

)

(19,861

)

Purchase price adjustments

(1,183

)

(922

)

—

—

(2,105

)

Goodwill impairment

—

—

(30,090

)

—

(30,090

)

BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2008

524,387

391,654

103,470

147,552

1,167,063

Foreign currency translation

7,164


1,503

1,562

10,527

Purchase price adjustments

2,428


—

—

2,855

BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2009

$

533,979

$

392,379

$

104,973

$

149,114

$

1,180,445

ASC 350 requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at the
    reporting unit level on an annual basis and between annual tests
    if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more
    likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit
    below its carrying value. Goodwill represents the purchase price
    in excess of the net amount assigned to assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed.

Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite
    lives were tested for impairment as of October 31, 2009,
    the Company’s annual impairment date. In 2009, there were
    no triggering events or change in circumstances that would have
    required a review other than as of our annual test date. The
    Company concluded that the fair value of each of the reporting
    units and indefinite-lived intangible assets was in excess of
    the carrying value as of October 31, 2009. However, a 10%
    decrease in the fair value of the Banjo or the Water reporting
    units within the Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment
    could potentially result in a goodwill impairment charge at
    these reporting units. The total goodwill balance for these two
    reporting units as of October 31, 2009 was
    $288.7 million.

In 2008 in accordance with ASC 350, the Company concluded that
    Fluid Management, a reporting unit within the Company’s
    Dispensing Equipment segment, experienced a downturn in capital
    spending by its customer base and the loss of market share which
    required the Company to perform an interim period goodwill
    impairment test.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company performed the first step of the two-step impairment
    test and compared the fair value of the reporting unit to its
    carrying value. Consistent with the Company’s approach in
    its annual impairment testing, in assessing the fair value of
    the Fluid Management reporting unit, the Company considered both
    the market approach and income approach. In 2008 under the
    market approach, the fair value of the reporting unit is based
    on comparing the reporting unit to comparable publicly traded
    companies or comparable entities which have been recently
    acquired in arms-length transactions. Under the income approach,
    the fair value of the reporting unit is based on the present
    value of estimated future cash flows. The income approach is
    dependent on a number of significant management assumptions
    including estimates of operating results, capital expenditures,
    other operating costs and discount rates. Due to current
    conditions within the market and the specific reporting unit,
    weighting was equally attributed to both the market and income
    approaches (50% each) in arriving at the fair value of the
    reporting unit. The Company determined that the fair value of
    the Fluid Management reporting unit was less than the carrying
    value of the net assets of the reporting unit, and thus the
    Company performed step two of the impairment test.

In step two of the impairment test, the Company determined the
    implied fair value of the goodwill and compared it to the
    carrying value of the goodwill. The Company allocated the
    current fair value of the Fluid Management reporting unit to all
    of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had
    presently been acquired in a business combination. The excess of
    the fair value of the reporting unit over the fair value of its
    identifiable assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of
    goodwill. The Company’s step two analysis resulted in an
    implied fair value of goodwill of $21.2 million, and as a
    result, the Company recognized an impairment charge of
    $30.1 million in the third quarter of 2008.

The following table provides the gross carrying value and
    accumulated amortization for each major class of intangible
    asset at December 31, 2009 and 2008:

At December 31, 2009

At December 31, 2008

Gross

Weighted

Gross

Carrying

Accumulated

Average

Carrying

Accumulated

Amount

Amortization

Net

Life

Amount

Amortization

Net

Amortizable intangible assets:

Patents

$

9,914

$

(4,289

)

$

5,625


$

11,795

$

(5,550

)

$

6,245

Trade names

63,589

(10,144

)

53,445


62,805

(6,310

)

56,495

Customer relationships

157,890

(32,422

)

125,468


156,216

(16,601

)

139,615

Non-compete agreements

4,268

(3,356

)



4,569

(2,989

)

1,580

Unpatented technology

36,047

(6,240

)

29,807


35,527

(2,939

)

32,588

Other

6,236

(2,239

)

3,997


6,282

(1,679

)

4,603

Total amortizable intangible assets

277,944

(58,690

)

219,254

277,194

(36,068

)

241,126

Banjo trade name

62,100

—

62,100

62,100

—

62,100

$

340,044

$

(58,690

)

$

281,354

$

339,294

$

(36,068

)

$

303,226

The Banjo trade name is an indefinite lived intangible asset
    which is tested for impairment on an annual basis. Amortization
    of intangible assets was $24.5 million, $17.6 million
    and $9.7 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Amortization expense for each of the next five years is
    estimated to be approximately $25.0 million annually.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

6.

Borrowings

Borrowings at December 31, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the
    following:



(In thousands)

Credit facility

$

298,732

$

448,763

Term loan

95,000

100,000

Other borrowings

6,368

5,237

Total borrowings

400,100

554,000

Less current portion

8,346

5,856

Total long-term borrowings

$

391,754

$

548,144

The Company maintains a $600.0 million unsecured domestic,
    multi-currency bank revolving credit facility (“Credit
    Facility”), which expires on December 21, 2011. In
    2008, the Credit Facility was amended to allow the Company to
    designate certain foreign subsidiaries as designated borrowers.
    Upon approval from the lenders, the designated borrowers will be
    allowed to receive loans under the Credit Facility. A designated
    borrower sublimit was established as the lesser of the aggregate
    commitments or $100.0 million. As of the amendment date,
    Fluid Management Europe B.V., (FME) was approved by the lenders
    as a designated borrower. FME’s borrowings under the Credit
    Facility at year end were approximately $48.7 million (Euro
    34 million). As the FME borrowings under the Credit
    Facility are Euro denominated and the cash flows that will be
    used to make payments of principal and interest are
    predominately denominated in Euros, the Company does not
    anticipate any significant foreign exchange gains or losses in
    servicing this debt.

At December 31, 2009 there was $298.7 million
    outstanding under the Credit Facility and outstanding letters of
    credit totaled approximately $7.1 million. The net
    available borrowing under the Credit Facility as of
    December 31, 2009, was approximately $294.2 million.
    Interest is payable quarterly on the outstanding borrowings at
    the bank agent’s reference rate. Interest on borrowings
    based on LIBOR plus an applicable margin is payable on the
    maturity date of the borrowing, or quarterly from the effective
    date for borrowings exceeding three months. The applicable
    margin is based on the Company’s senior, unsecured,
    long-term debt rating and can range from 24 basis points to
    50 basis points. Based on the Company’s BBB rating at
    December 31, 2009, the applicable margin was 40 basis
    points. An annual Credit Facility fee, also based on the
    Company’s credit rating, is currently 10 basis points
    and is payable quarterly.

At December 31, 2009 the Company had one interest rate
    exchange agreement related to the Credit Facility. The interest
    rate exchange agreement, expiring in January 2011, effectively
    converted $250.0 million of floating-rate debt into
    fixed-rate debt at an interest rate of 3.25%. The fixed rate
    noted above is comprised of the fixed rate on the interest rate
    exchange agreement and the Company’s current margin of
    40 basis points on the Credit Facility.

On February 15, 2008, the Company retired its
    $150.0 million senior notes using proceeds available under
    the Company’s Credit Facility.

On April 18, 2008, the Company completed a
    $100.0 million unsecured senior bank term loan agreement
    (“Term Loan”), with covenants consistent with the
    existing Credit Facility and a maturity on December 21,
    2011. At December 31, 2009, there was $95.0 million
    outstanding under the Term Loan with $5.0 million included
    within short term borrowings. Interest under the Term Loan is
    based on the bank agent’s reference rate or LIBOR plus an
    applicable margin and is payable at the end of the selected
    interest period, but at least quarterly. The applicable margin
    is based on the Company’s senior, unsecured, long-term debt
    rating and can range from 45 to 100 basis points. Based on
    the Company’s current debt rating, the applicable margin is
    80 basis points. The Term Loan requires repayments of
    $5.0 million and $7.5 million in April of 2010 and
    2011, respectively, with the remaining



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

balance due on December 21, 2011. The Company used the
    proceeds from the Term Loan to pay down existing debt
    outstanding under the Credit Facility.

The Company currently maintains an interest rate exchange
    agreement related to the Term Loan that expires in December
    2011. With a current notional amount of $95.0 million, the
    agreement effectively converted $100.0 million of
    floating-rate debt into fixed-rate debt at an interest rate of
    4.00%. The fixed rate is comprised of the fixed rate on the
    interest rate exchange agreement and the Company’s current
    margin of 80 basis points on the Term Loan.

Other borrowings of $6.4 million at December 31, 2009
    was comprised of capital leases as well as debt at international
    locations maintained for working capital purposes. Interest is
    payable on the outstanding debt balances at the international
    locations at rates ranging from 0.8% to 4.0% per annum.

There are two financial covenants that the Company is required
    to maintain in connection with the Credit Facility and Term
    Loan. As defined in the agreement, the minimum interest coverage
    ratio (operating cash flow to interest) is 3.0 to 1 and the
    maximum leverage ratio (outstanding debt to operating cash flow)
    is 3.25 to 1. At December 31, 2009, the Company was in
    compliance with both of these financial covenants.

Total borrowings at December 31, 2009 have scheduled
    maturities as follows (in thousands):


$

8,346


389,083







Thereafter

1,712

Total borrowings

$

400,100

7.

Derivative
    Instruments

The Company enters into cash flow hedges to reduce the exposure
    to variability in certain expected future cash flows. The type
    of cash flow hedges the Company enters into includes foreign
    currency contracts and interest rate exchange agreements that
    effectively convert a portion of floating-rate debt to
    fixed-rate debt and are designed to reduce the impact of
    interest rate changes on future interest expense.

The effective portion of gains or losses on interest rate
    exchange agreements is reported in accumulated other
    comprehensive income in shareholders’ equity and
    reclassified into net income in the same period or periods in
    which the hedged transaction affects net income. The remaining
    gain or loss in excess of the cumulative change in the present
    value of future cash flows or the hedged item, if any, is
    recognized into net income during the period of change.

Fair values relating to derivative financial instruments reflect
    the estimated amounts that the Company would receive or pay to
    sell or buy the contracts based on quoted market prices of
    comparable contracts at each balance sheet date.

At December 31, 2009, the Company had two interest rate
    exchange agreements. The first interest rate exchange agreement,
    expiring in January 2011, effectively converted
    $250.0 million of floating-rate debt into fixed-rate debt
    at an interest rate of 3.25%. The second interest rate exchange
    agreement, expiring December 2011, with a current notional
    amount of $95.0 million, effectively converted
    $100.0 million of floating-rate debt into fixed-rate debt
    at an interest rate of 4.00%. The fixed rate is comprised of the
    fixed rate on the interest rate exchange agreements and the
    Company’s current margin of 40 basis points for the
    Credit Facility and 80 basis points on the Term Loan.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Based on interest rates at December 31, 2009, approximately
    $9.3 million of the amount included in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) in shareholders’ equity at
    December 31, 2009 will be recognized to net income over the
    next 12 months as the underlying hedged transactions are
    realized.

The following table set’s forth the fair value amounts of
    derivative instruments held by the Company as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008:

Fair Value-Liabilities

December 31,

December 31,

Balance Sheet



Caption

(In thousands)

Interest rate contracts

$

10,497

$

10,098

Other noncurrent liabilities

Foreign exchange contracts

—


Accrued expenses

$

10,497

$

10,370

The following table summarizes the gain (loss) recognized and
    the amounts and location of income (expense) and gain (loss)
    reclassified into income for interest rate contracts and foreign
    currency contracts for the year ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008:

Gain (Loss) Recognized in

Income (Expense)

Other Comprehensive

and Gain (Loss)

Income (Loss)

Reclassified into Income

Income

Year Ended December 31,

Statement





Caption

(In thousands)

Interest rate contracts

$

(8,509

)

$

(9,743

)

$

(8,111

)

$


Interest expense

Foreign exchange contracts

1,187

(307

)


(19

)

Sales

8.

Fair
    Value Measurements

ASC 820

“Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures”

defines fair value, provides guidance for measuring fair
    value and requires certain disclosures. This standard discusses
    valuation techniques, such as the market approach (comparable
    market prices), the income approach (present value of future
    income or cash flow), and the cost approach (cost to replace the
    service capacity of an asset or replacement cost). The standard
    utilizes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to
    valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad
    levels. The following is a brief description of those three
    levels:

•

Level 1:

Observable inputs such as quoted
    prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or
    liabilities.

•

Level 2:

Inputs, other than quoted prices
    that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly
    or indirectly. These include quoted prices for similar assets or
    liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or
    similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.

•

Level 3:

Unobservable inputs that reflect
    the reporting entity’s own assumptions.

The following table summarizes the basis used to measure the
    Company’s financial assets and liabilities at fair value on
    a recurring basis in the balance sheet at December 31, 2009
    and 2008:

Basis of Fair Value Measurements

Balance at

December 31,


Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

(In thousands)

Money market investment

$

9,186

$

9,186

—

—

Interest rate exchange agreement derivative financial instruments

$

10,497

—

$

10,497

—



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Balance at

December 31,


Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

(In thousands)

Interest rate exchange agreement derivative financial instruments

$

10,098

—

$

10,098

—

Foreign currency contracts

$


—

$


—

In determining the fair value of the Company’s interest
    rate exchange agreement derivatives, the Company uses a present
    value of expected cash flows based on market observable interest
    rate yield curves commensurate with the term of each instrument
    and the credit default swap market to reflect the credit risk of
    either the Company or the counterparty.

The carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents, accounts
    receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximates
    their fair values because of the short term nature of these
    instruments. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of our
    Credit Facility and Term Loan, based on the current market rates
    for debt with similar credit risk and maturity, was
    approximately $375.6 million compared to the carrying value
    of $393.7 million.

9.

Commitments
    and Contingencies

At December 31, 2009, total future minimum rental payments
    under noncancelable operating leases, primarily for office
    facilities, warehouses and data processing equipment, were
    $33.2 million. The future minimum rental commitments for
    each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows:
    2010 — $8.6 million; 2011 —
    $5.9 million; 2012 — $4.5 million;
    2013 — $3.1 million; 2014 —
    $2.2 million; thereafter — $8.9 million.

Rental expense from continuing operations totaled
    $12.2 million, $12.6 million and $11.6 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007,
    respectively.

The Company is a party to various legal proceedings involving
    employment, contractual, product liability and other matters,
    none of which is expected to have a material adverse effect on
    its results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.

10.

Common
    and Preferred Stock

On April 21, 2008, the Company’s Board of Directors
    authorized the repurchase of up to $125.0 million of its
    outstanding common shares either in the open market or through
    private transactions. In 2008 the Company purchased a total of
    2.3 million shares at a cost of approximately
    $50.0 million. No shares were purchased in 2009.

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had
    150 million shares of authorized common stock, with a par
    value of $.01 per share and 5 million shares of preferred
    stock with a par value of $.01 per share. No preferred stock was
    issued as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.

11.

Income
    Taxes

Pretax income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
    and 2007 was taxed in the following jurisdictions:




(In thousands)

Domestic

$

114,389

$

120,962

$

162,880

Foreign

54,438

71,265

69,996

Total

$

168,827

$

192,227

$

232,876



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The provision (benefit) for income taxes for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, was as follows:




(In thousands)

Current

U.S.

$

34,921

$

47,594

$

50,045

State and local

2,704

6,542

5,522

Foreign

16,730

21,882

21,420

Total current

54,355

76,018

76,987

Deferred

U.S.

1,658

(10,099

)

4,198

State and local


(503

)


Foreign

(687

)

(215

)

(3,128

)

Total deferred

1,081

(10,817

)

1,470

Total provision for income taxes

$

55,436

$

65,201

$

78,457

Deferred tax assets (liabilities) related to the following at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 were:



(In thousands)

Employee and retiree benefit plans

$

24,075

$

29,197

Depreciation and amortization

(167,345

)

(170,652

)

Inventories

7,240

5,596

Allowances and accruals

7,589

7,434

Other

(2,633

)

4,076

Total

$

(131,074

)

$

(124,349

)

The deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized in the
    Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 were:



(In thousands)

Deferred tax asset — other current assets

$

17,615

$

11,469

Deferred tax asset — other noncurrent assets


7,637

Total deferred tax assets

17,788

19,106

Deferred tax liability — accrued expenses

(56

)

(1,471

)

Noncurrent deferred tax liability — deferred income
    taxes

(148,806

)

(141,984

)

Total deferred tax liabilities

(148,862

)

(143,455

)

Net deferred tax liabilities

$

(131,074

)

$

(124,349

)



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed
    by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to pretax
    income. The computed amount and the differences for the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 are shown in the
    following table:




(In thousands)

Pretax income

$

168,827

$

192,227

$

232,876

Provision for income taxes:

Computed amount at statutory rate of 35%

$

59,089

$

67,280

$

81,507

State and local income tax (net of federal tax benefit)

1,829

3,925

3,849

Taxes on

non-U.S.

earnings-net

of foreign tax credits

(4,117

)

(5,191

)

(407

)

U.S. business tax credits

(754

)

(857

)

(679

)

Domestic activities production deduction

(1,925

)

(2,291

)

(2,450

)

Revaluation of deferred taxes for

non-U.S.

rate changes

—

—

(4,535

)

Other

1,314

2,335

1,172

Total provision for income taxes

$

55,436

$

65,201

$

78,457

The Company has not provided an estimate for any U.S. or
    additional foreign taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign
    subsidiaries that might be payable if these earnings were
    repatriated since the Company considers these amounts to be
    permanently invested.

We adopted the provisions of ASC 740 on January 1, 2007. In
    accordance with ASC 740, the Company recognized a
    cumulative-effect adjustment of $1.2 million, increasing
    its liability for unrecognized tax benefits, interest, and
    penalties and reducing the January 1, 2007 balance of
    retained earnings.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007 are shown in the following table:




(In thousands)

Unrecognized tax benefits beginning balance

$

4,009

$

5,938

$

5,485

Gross increases for tax positions of prior years

2,138

2,571

2,943

Gross decreases for tax positions of prior years

—

(1,836

)

(432

)

Settlements

(628

)

(993

)

(1,952

)

Lapse of statute of limitations

(234

)

(1,671

)

(106

)

Unrecognized tax benefits ending balance

$

5,285

$

4,009

$

5,938

We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax
    positions in income tax expense. As of December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007 we had approximately $0.9 million,
    $0.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively, of
    accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions. As of
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 we had approximately
    $0.2 million of accrued penalties related to uncertain tax
    positions.

The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect
    our effective tax rate if recognized is $4.4 million as of
    December 31, 2009, $3.1 million as of
    December 31, 2008 and $2.5 million as of
    December 31, 2007. The tax years

2005-2008

remain open to examination by major taxing jurisdictions. Due to
    the potential for resolution of federal, state and foreign
    examinations, and the expiration of various statutes of
    limitation, it is reasonably possible that the Company’s
    gross unrecognized tax benefits balance may change within the
    next twelve months by a range of zero to $0.3 million.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had state net
    operating loss carry forwards of approximately
    $12.7 million and $14.3 million, respectively. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 the Company had foreign net
    operating loss carry forwards of approximately
    $12.5 million and $9.7 million, respectively. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had a foreign
    capital loss carry forward of approximately $2.3 million
    and $3.8 million respectively. If unutilized, the state net
    operating loss will expire between 2016 and 2028. Neither the
    foreign net operating loss nor the foreign capital loss has an
    expiration date. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company
    recorded a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset
    attributable to the state net operating loss of
    $0.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively. The
    Company has not recorded a valuation allowance against the
    foreign net operating loss at either December 31, 2009 or
    2008. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has a
    valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset attributable
    to the foreign capital loss of $0.6 million and
    $1.1 million, respectively.

12.

Comprehensive
    Income

The components of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    for 2009, 2008 and 2007 follow:




(In thousands)

Unrealized losses on derivatives

Pretax amount

$

(127

)

$

(10,370

)

$

—

Tax benefit


3,728

—

Aftertax amount

$

(71

)

$

(6,642

)

$

—

Pension and other post-retirement plans

Pretax amount

$

9,863

$

(20,996

)

$

10,097

Tax benefit (provision)

(3,467

)

7,717

(4,163

)

Aftertax amount

$

6,396

$

(13,279

)

$

5,934

Cumulative translation adjustment

Pretax amount

$

19,195

$

(45,863

)

$

33,573

Tax benefit (provision)

—

—

—

Aftertax amount

$

19,195

$

(45,863

)

$

33,573

Foreign currency translation adjustments are generally not
    adjusted for income taxes as they relate to indefinite
    investments in non-US subsidiaries.

13.

Business
    Segments and Geographic Information

IDEX has four reportable business segments: Fluid &
    Metering Technologies, Health & Science Technologies,
    Dispensing Equipment, and Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products. Reporting units in the Fluid & Metering
    Technologies segment include Banjo, Energy, Water and IPT.
    Reporting units in the Health & Science Technologies
    segment include HST Core, Gast, and Micropump. Reporting units
    in the Dispensing Equipment segment include the Fluid Management
    businesses. Reporting units in the Fire &
    Safety/Diversified Products segment include Fire Suppression,
    Rescue Tools and Band-It.

The Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment designs,
    produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow
    meters, injectors, and other fluid-handling pump modules and
    systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for
    water and wastewater. The Health & Science
    Technologies Segment designs, produces and distributes a wide
    range of precision fluidics solutions, including very high
    precision, low-flow rate pumping solutions required in
    analytical instrumentation, clinical diagnostics and drug
    discovery, high performance molded and extruded,



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors
    used in medical, dental and industrial applications, and
    precision gear and peristaltic pump technologies that meet
    exacting OEM specifications. The Dispensing Equipment Segment
    produces precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing
    colorants, paints, and hair colorants and other personal care
    products used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses
    around the world. The Fire & Safety/Diversified
    Products Segment produces firefighting pumps and controls,
    rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems for
    the fire and rescue industry, and engineered stainless steel
    banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and
    commercial applications.

Information on the Company’s business segments from
    continuing operations is presented below, based on the nature of
    products and services offered. The Company evaluates performance
    based on several factors, of which operating income is the
    primary financial measure. Intersegment sales are accounted for
    at fair value as if the sales were to third parties.


2008(5)

2007(5)

(In thousands)

NET SALES

Fluid & Metering Technologies:

External customers

$

640,242

$

696,641

$

568,622

Intersegment sales


1,061

1,685

Total segment sales

641,108

697,702

570,307

Health & Science Technologies:

External customers

299,336

328,514

323,639

Intersegment sales

4,993

3,077

3,531

Total segment sales

304,329

331,591

327,170

Dispensing Equipment:

External customers

127,279

163,861

177,948

Intersegment sales

—

—

—

Total segment sales

127,279

163,861

177,948

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products:

External customers

262,804

300,455

288,422

Intersegment sales




Total segment sales

262,809

300,462

288,424

Intersegment eliminations

(5,864

)

(4,145

)

(5,218

)

Total net sales

$

1,329,661

$

1,489,471

$

1,358,631

OPERATING INCOME(1)

Fluid & Metering Technologies

$

100,289

$

123,801

$

119,060

Health & Science Technologies

51,712

58,297

61,473

Dispensing Equipment(2)

15,147

(10,748

)

39,179

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products

59,884

74,310

66,287

Corporate office and other(3)

(42,178

)

(39,704

)

(33,204

)

Total operating income

$

184,854

$

205,956

$

252,795



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)


2008(5)

2007(5)

(In thousands)

ASSETS

Fluid & Metering Technologies

$

1,043,082

$

1,070,348

$

698,286

Health & Science Technologies

567,096

594,459

542,427

Dispensing Equipment

164,979

179,800

236,751

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products

285,893

286,482

312,603

Corporate office and other(3)

37,107

20,711

180,011

Total assets

$

2,098,157

$

2,151,800

$

1,970,078

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION(4)

Fluid & Metering Technologies

$

32,584

$

26,276

$

16,797

Health & Science Technologies

14,293

11,806

11,156

Dispensing Equipment

3,124

3,986

3,151

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products

5,328

5,288

5,676

Corporate office and other

1,017

1,243

1,258

Total depreciation and amortization

$

56,346

$

48,599

$

38,038

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Fluid & Metering Technologies

$

12,867

$

13,859

$

11,407

Health & Science Technologies

6,365

5,365

5,342

Dispensing Equipment


2,528

2,832

Fire & Safety/Diversified Products

3,686

4,743

3,532

Corporate office and other

1,743

1,863

3,383

Total capital expenditures

$

25,525

$

28,358

$

26,496



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Information about the Company’s operations in different
    geographical regions for the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007 is shown below. Net sales were attributed to
    geographic areas based on location of the customer, and no
    country outside the U.S. was greater than 10% of total
    revenues.




(In thousands)

NET SALES

U.S.

$

698,822

$

793,872

$

734,877

Europe

361,774

386,864

340,543

Other countries

269,065

308,735

283,211

Total net sales

$

1,329,661

$

1,489,471

$

1,358,631

LONG-LIVED ASSETS — PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

U.S.

$

105,165

$

111,252

$

110,371

Europe

61,766

65,208

54,401

Other countries

11,352

9,823

8,227

Total long-lived assets

$

178,283

$

186,283

$

172,999

14.

Acquisitions

On January 1, 2008, the Company acquired the stock of ADS,
    a provider of metering technology and flow monitoring services
    for water and wastewater markets. ADS is headquartered in
    Huntsville, Alabama, with regional sales and service offices
    throughout the United States and Australia. With annual revenues
    of approximately $70.0 million, ADS operates as part of the
    Water reporting unit within the Company’s Fluid &
    Metering Technologies Segment. The Company acquired ADS for an
    aggregate purchase price of $156.1 million, consisting
    entirely of cash. Approximately $155.0 million of the cash
    payment was financed with borrowings under the Company’s
    Credit Facility, of which $140.0 million was reflected as
    restricted cash at December 31, 2007. Goodwill and
    intangible assets recognized as part of this transaction were
    $102.1 million and $51.9 million, respectively. The
    $102.1 million of goodwill is not deductible for tax
    purposes.

On October 1, 2008, the Company acquired the stock of
    Richter, a provider of premium quality lined pumps, valves and
    control equipment for the chemical and pharmaceutical
    industries. Richter’s corrosion resistant fluoroplastic
    lined products offer solutions for demanding applications in the
    process industry. Headquartered in Kempen, Germany, with
    facilities in China, India and the U.S., Richter has annual
    revenues of approximately $53.0 million. Richter operates
    as part of the IPT reporting unit within the Company’s
    Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment. The Company
    acquired Richter for an aggregate purchase price of
    $102.0 million, consisting of $93.3 million in cash
    and the assumption of approximately $8.7 million of debt
    related items. Approximately $63.7 million of the cash
    payment was financed with borrowings under the Company’s
    Credit Facility. Goodwill and intangible assets recognized as
    part of this transaction were $57.8 million and
    $32.7 million, respectively. The $57.8 million of
    goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

On October 14, 2008, the Company acquired the stock of
    iPEK, a provider of systems focused on infrastructure analysis,
    specifically wastewater collection systems. iPEK is a developer
    of remote controlled systems for infrastructure inspection.
    Headquartered in Hirschegg, Austria, iPEK has annual revenues of
    approximately $25.0 million. iPEK operates as part of the
    Water reporting unit within the Company’s Fluid &
    Metering Technologies Segment and is expected to leverage the
    ADS acquisition which was completed in January 2008. The Company
    acquired iPEK for an aggregate purchase price of
    $44.5 million, consisting of $43.1 million in cash and
    the assumption of approximately $1.4 million of debt
    related items. Approximately $33.2 million of the cash
    payment was financed with borrowings under the Company’s
    Credit Facility. Goodwill and intangible assets



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

recognized as part of this transaction were $21.1 million
    and $17.8 million, respectively. Of the $21.1 million
    of goodwill, approximately $20.0 million is expected to be
    deductible for tax purposes.

On October 16, 2008, the Company acquired the stock of
    IETG, a provider of flow monitoring and underground utility
    surveillance services for the water and wastewater markets. IETG
    products and services enable water companies to effectively
    manage their water distribution and sewerage networks, while its
    surveillance service specializes in underground asset detection
    and mapping for utilities and other private companies.
    Headquartered in Leeds, United Kingdom, IETG has annual revenues
    of approximately $26.0 million. IETG operates as part of
    the Water reporting unit within IDEX’s Fluid &
    Metering Technologies Segment. The Company acquired IETG for an
    aggregate purchase price of $36.9 million, consisting of
    $35.0 million in cash and the assumption of approximately
    $1.9 million of debt related items. Approximately
    $20.5 million of the cash payment was financed with
    borrowings under the Company’s Credit Facility. Goodwill
    and intangible assets recognized as part of this transaction
    were $24.0 million and $9.2 million, respectively. The
    $24.0 million of goodwill is not deductible for tax
    purposes.

On October 20, 2008, the Company acquired the stock of
    Semrock, a provider of optical filters for biotech and
    analytical instrumentation in the life sciences markets.
    Semrock’s products are used in the biotechnology and
    analytical instrumentation industries. Semrock produces optical
    filters using

state-of-the-art

manufacturing processes which enable them to offer significant
    improvements in the performance and reliability of their
    customers’ instruments. Headquartered in Rochester, New
    York, Semrock has annual revenues of approximately
    $21.0 million. Semrock operates as part of the HST Core
    reporting unit within the Company’s Health &
    Science Technologies Segment. The Company acquired Semrock for
    an aggregate purchase price of $60.6 million, consisting
    entirely of cash. Approximately $60.0 million of the cash
    payment was financed with borrowings under the Company’s
    Credit Facility. Goodwill and intangible assets recognized as
    part of this transaction were $38.1 million and
    $20.0 million, respectively. The $38.1 million of
    goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

On November 14, 2008, the Company acquired the stock of
    Innovadyne, a provider of nanoliter dispensing instruments for
    the life sciences industry. Innovadyne’s products are used
    for assay miniaturization across a broad range of disciplines
    including High Throughput Screening, Assay Development,
    PCR/Sequencing, and Protein Crystallography. Innovadyne operates
    as part of the HST Core reporting unit within the Company’s
    Health & Science Technologies Segment. The Company
    acquired Innovadyne for an aggregate purchase price of
    $3.3 million, consisting entirely of cash. Approximately
    $3.3 million of the cash payment was financed with
    borrowings under the Company’s Credit Facility. Goodwill
    and intangible assets recognized as part of this transaction
    were $1.4 million and $1.1 million, respectively. The
    $1.4 million of goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

On February 14, 2007, the Company acquired the stock of
    Faure Herman, a leading provider of ultrasonic and helical
    turbine flow meters used in the custody transfer and control of
    high value fluids and gases. Headquartered in La Ferté
    Bernard, France, Faure Herman has sales offices in Europe and
    North America, with annual revenues of approximately
    $22.0 million. Faure Herman operates as part of the
    Company’s Energy reporting unit within its
    Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment. The Company
    acquired Faure Herman for an aggregate purchase price of
    $25.9 million, consisting of $24.3 million in cash and
    the assumption of approximately $1.6 million of debt.
    Approximately $12.9 million of the cash payment was
    financed with borrowings under the Company’s Credit
    Facility. Goodwill and intangible assets recognized as part of
    this transaction were $13.4 million and $7.7 million,
    respectively. The $13.4 million of goodwill is not
    deductible for tax purposes.

On June 12, 2007, the Company acquired the assets of
    Quadro, a leading provider of particle control solutions for the
    pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical markets. Quadro’s
    core capabilities include fine milling, emulsification and
    special handling of liquid and solid particulates for
    laboratory, pilot phase and production scale processing within
    the pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical markets. Headquartered
    in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, Quadro, with annual revenues of
    approximately $25.0 million, operates as part of the IPT
    reporting unit within the Company’s Fluid &
    Metering Technologies Segment. The Company acquired Quadro for a
    purchase price of $32.2 million, consisting entirely of
    cash. Approximately $11.3 million of the cash payment was
    financed



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

with borrowings under the Company’s Credit Facility.
    Goodwill and intangible assets recognized as part of this
    transaction were $12.1 million and $10.9 million,
    respectively. Of the $12.1 million of goodwill,
    approximately $8.9 million is expected to be deductible for
    tax purposes.

On October 18, 2007, the Company acquired the assets of
    Isolation Technologies, a leading developer of advanced column
    hardware and accessories for the High Performance Liquid
    Chromatography (HPLC) market. HPLC instruments are used in a
    variety of analytical chemistry applications, with primary
    commercial applications including drug discovery and quality
    control measurements for pharmaceutical and food/beverage
    testing. Isolation Technologies, with annual revenues of
    approximately $12.0 million, operates as part of the HST
    Core reporting unit in the Company’s Health and Science
    Technologies Segment. The Company acquired Isolation
    Technologies for a purchase price of $30.2 million,
    consisting entirely of cash. Approximately $29.7 million of
    the cash payment was financed by borrowings under the
    Company’s Credit Facility. Goodwill and intangible assets
    recognized as part of this transaction were $17.9 million
    and $8.7 million, respectively. The $17.9 million of
    goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.

The results of operations for these acquisitions have been
    included within the Company’s financial results from the
    date of the acquisition. The Company does not consider these
    acquisitions to be material to its results of operations for any
    of the periods presented.

15.

Discontinued
    Operations

On August 13, 2007, the Company completed the sale of
    Halox, its chemical and electrochemical systems product line
    operating as part of the Fluid & Metering Technologies
    Segment.

Summarized results of the Company’s discontinued operations
    are as follows:

For the Year Ended

December 31, 2007

(In thousands)

Revenue

$

1,428

Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes

$

(1,106

)

Income tax benefit (provision)


Loss from discontinued operations

$

(719

)

16.

Share-Based
    Compensation

The Company maintains two share-based compensation plans for
    executives, non-employee directors, and certain key employees
    which authorize the granting of stock options, unvested shares,
    unvested share units, and other types of awards consistent with
    the purpose of the plans. The number of shares authorized for
    issuance under the Company’s plans as of December 31,
    2009 totals 7.1 million, of which 1.7 million shares
    were available for future issuance. Stock options granted under
    these plans are generally non-qualified, and are granted with an
    exercise price equal to the market price of the Company’s
    stock at the date of grant. Substantially all of the options
    issued to employees prior to 2005 become exercisable in five
    equal installments, while the majority of options issued to
    employees in 2005 and after become exercisable in four equal
    installments, beginning one year from the date of grant, and
    generally expire 10 years from the date of grant. Stock
    options granted to non-employee directors cliff vest after one
    or two years. Unvested share and unvested share unit awards
    generally cliff vest after three or four years for employees,
    and three years for non-employee directors. The Company issued
    273,000, 583,000 and 134,000 of unvested shares as compensation
    to key employees in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Of the
    shares granted in 2008, 242,800 of the shares vest 50% on
    April 8, 2011 and 50% on April 8, 2013, but such
    vesting may be accelerated if the Company’s share price for
    any five consecutive trading days equals or exceeds $65.90
    (twice the closing price of the shares on the date of grant).
    Also, 12,333 of the 2008 shares issued vested on
    April 8, 2009 with



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

another 12,333 vesting on April 8, 2010 and 49,334 vesting
    on April 8, 2011. The unvested shares granted in 2009 and
    2007 and the remaining unvested shares granted in 2008 contain a
    cliff vesting feature and vest either three or four years after
    the grant date for employees and three years for non-employee
    directors.

All unvested shares carry dividend and voting rights, and the
    sale of the shares is restricted prior to the date of vesting.

The Company accounts for share-based payments in accordance with
    ASC 718. Accordingly, the Company expenses the fair value of
    awards made under its share-based plans. That cost is recognized
    in the consolidated financial statements over the requisite
    service period of the grants.

Weighted average option fair values and assumptions for the
    period specified are disclosed in the following table:

Years Ended December 31,




Weighted average fair value of grants

$

5.32

$

8.81

$

9.55

Dividend yield

2.35

%

1.46

%

1.37

%

Volatility

32.53

%

31.51

%

30.59

%

Risk-free interest rate

0.69

% - 4.63%

1.68

% - 5.33%

4.23

% - 4.92%

Expected life (in years)

5.85

5.28

4.64

The assumptions are as follows:

•

The Company estimated volatility using its historical share
    price performance over the contractual term of the option.

•

The Company uses historical data to estimate the expected life
    of the option. The expected life assumption for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is an output of the
    Binomial lattice option-pricing model, which incorporates
    vesting provisions, rate of voluntary exercise and rate of
    post-vesting termination over the contractual life of the option
    to define expected employee behavior.

•

The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury
    yield curve in effect at the time of grant for periods within
    the contractual life of the option. For the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we present the range of
    risk-free one-year forward rates, derived from the
    U.S. treasury yield curve, utilized in the Binomial lattice
    option-pricing model.

•

The expected dividend yield is based on the Company’s
    current dividend yield as the best estimate of projected
    dividend yield for periods within the contractual life of the
    option.

The Company’s policy is to recognize compensation cost on a
    straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the
    entire award. Additionally, the Company’s general policy is
    to issue new shares of common stock to satisfy stock option
    exercises or grants of unvested shares.

Total compensation cost for stock options is as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cost of goods sold

$


$

1,043

$


Selling, general and administrative expenses

6,288

7,175

7,330

Total expense before income taxes

7,233

8,218

8,329

Income tax benefit

(2,322

)

(2,585

)

(3,032

)

Total expense after income taxes

$

4,911

$

5,633

$

5,297



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Total compensation cost for unvested shares is as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cost of goods sold

$


$


$


Selling, general and administrative expenses

8,229

6,717

4,213

Total expense before income taxes

8,477

6,796

4,241

Income tax benefit

(1,444

)

(1,108

)

(827

)

Total expense after income taxes

$

7,033

$

5,688

$

3,414

Recognition of compensation cost was consistent with recognition
    of cash compensation for the same employees. Compensation cost
    capitalized as part of inventory was immaterial.

As of December 31, 2009, there was $10.3 million of
    total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options
    that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period
    of 1.3 years. As of December 31, 2009, there was
    $11.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
    related to unvested shares that is expected to be recognized
    over a weighted-average period of 1.1 years.

A summary of the Company’s stock option activity as of
    December 31, 2009, and changes during the year ended
    December 31, 2009 is presented in the following table:

Weighted

Weighted-Average

Aggregate

Average

Remaining

Intrinsic

Stock Options

Shares

Price

Contractual Term

Value

Outstanding at January 1, 2009

5,485,896

$

25.87

6.55

$

16,785,351

Granted

1,195,780

20.25

Exercised

(473,208

)

16.22

Forfeited/Expired

(415,440

)

30.85

Outstanding at December 31, 2009

5,793,028

$

25.14

6.40

$

40,557,214

Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2009

5,590,573

$

25.14

6.31

$

39,209,262

Exercisable at December 31, 2009

3,500,837

$

24.08

5.04

$

27,821,826

The intrinsic value for stock options outstanding and
    exercisable is defined as the difference between the market
    value of the Company’s common stock as of the end of the
    period, and the grant price. The total intrinsic value of
    options exercised in 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $5.3 million,
    $10.4 million and $17.3 million, respectively. In
    2009, 2008 and 2007, cash received from options exercised was
    $7.7 million, $10.4 million and $14.0 million,
    respectively, while the actual tax benefit realized for the tax
    deductions from stock options exercised totaled
    $1.9 million, $3.1 million and $6.3 million,
    respectively.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

A summary of the Company’s unvested share activity as of
    December 31, 2009, and changes during the year ending
    December 31, 2009 is presented in the following table:

Weighted-Average

Grant Date Fair

Unvested Shares

Shares

Value

Nonvested at January 1, 2009

903,200

$

31.57

Granted

273,419

20.34

Vested

(219,282

)

26.32

Forfeited

(36,738

)

29.24

Nonvested at December 31, 2009

920,599

29.58

Generally, unvested share grants accrue dividends and their fair
    value is equal to the market price of the Company’s stock
    at the date of the grant.

17.

Retirement
    Benefits

The Company sponsors several qualified and nonqualified pension
    plans and other postretirement plans for its employees. The
    Company uses a measurement date of December 31 for its defined
    benefit pension plans and post retirement medical plans. In
    2008, the Company adopted the measurement date provisions of ASC
    715, “Compensation-Retirement Benefits”. Those
    provisions require the measurement date of plan assets and
    liabilities to coincide with the sponsor’s year end.

The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in
    the benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets over the
    two-year period ended December 31, 2009, and a statement of
    the funded status at December 31 for both years.

Pension Benefits



Other Benefits

U.S.

Non-U.S.

U.S.

Non-U.S.



(In thousands)

CHANGE IN BENEFIT OBLIGATION

Obligation at January 1

$

72,689

$

36,811

$

71,507

$

34,711

$

21,767

$

21,890

ASC 715 measurement date adjustment

—

—

—


—

—

Service cost

1,551


1,765




Interest cost

4,375

2,122

4,484

1,901

1,018

1,328

Plan amendments

—

—



(2,932

)

—

Benefits paid

(4,233

)

(1,563

)

(4,761

)

(1,475

)

(1,135

)

(1,058

)

Actuarial gain (loss)

7,817

(1,253

)

(551

)

(1,563

)

(1,418

)

(445

)

Currency translation

—

1,845

—

(6,377

)


(555

)

Acquisitions

—

—

—

8,043

—

—

Curtailments/settlements

(987

)

—

(256

)

—

—

—

Other

—


—


—

—

Obligation at December 31

$

81,212

$

39,342

$

72,689

$

36,811

$

18,059

$

21,767



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Pension Benefits



Other Benefits

U.S.

Non-U.S.

U.S.

Non-U.S.



(In thousands)

CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS

Fair value of plan assets at January 1

$

39,974

$

11,975

$

63,612

$

18,301

$

—

$

—

Actual return on plan assets

9,638

1,848

(19,523

)

(1,670

)

—

—

Employer contributions

8,818

1,812


1,432

1,135

1,058

Benefits paid

(4,233

)

(1,563

)

(4,761

)

(1,475

)

(1,135

)

(1,058

)

Currency translation

—

1,279

—

(4,587

)

—

—

Settlements

(987

)

—

(256

)

—

—

—

Other

—


—

(26

)

$

—

$

—

Fair value of plan assets at December 31

$

53,210

$

15,376

$

39,974

$

11,975

$

—

$

—

Funded status at December 31

$

(28,002

)

$

(23,966

)

$

(32,715

)

$

(24,836

)

$

(18,059

)

$

(21,767

)

COMPONENTS ON THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

Current liabilities

$

(601

)

$

(1,032

)

$

(651

)

$

(876

)

$

(968

)

$

(1,303

)

Noncurrent liabilities

(27,401

)

(22,934

)

(32,064

)

(23,960

)

(17,091

)

(20,464

)

Net liability at December 31

$

(28,002

)

$

(23,966

)

$

(32,715

)

$

(24,836

)

$

(18,059

)

$

(21,767

)

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
    pension plans was $114.8 million and $103.3 million at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The weighted average assumptions used in the measurement of the
    Company’s benefit obligation at December 31, 2009 and
    2008, were as follows:

U.S. Plans

Non-U.S. Plans





Discount rate

5.80

%

6.30

%

5.88

%

5.73

%

Rate of compensation increase

3.89

%

4.00

%

3.35

%

3.17

%

The pretax amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive
    (income) loss as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as
    follows:

Pension Benefits



Other Benefits

U.S.

Non-U.S.

U.S.

Non-U.S



(In thousands)

Prior service cost (credit)

$


$


$

1,047

$


$

(2,966

)

$

(330

)

Net loss

38,043

5,466

41,403

7,662


1,991

Total

$

38,778

$

5,474

$

42,450

$

7,670

$

(2,305

)

$

1,661



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as of
    December 31, 2009, that are expected to be recognized as
    components of net periodic benefit cost during 2010 are as
    follows:

Non-U.S.

Other

U.S. Pension

Pension Benefit

Post-Retirement

Benefit Plans

Plans

Benefit Plans

Total

(In thousands)

Prior service cost (credit)

$


$


$

(305

)

$

(76

)

Net loss (gain)

4,279


(45

)

4,542

Total

$

4,507

$


$

(350

)

$

4,466

The following tables provide the components of, and the weighted
    average assumptions used to determine, the net periodic benefit
    cost for the plans in 2009, 2008 and 2007:

Pension Benefits




U.S.

Non-U.S.

U.S.

Non-U.S.

U.S.

Non-U.S.

(In thousands)

Service cost

$

1,551

$


$

1,765

$


$

1,876

$


Interest cost

4,375

2,122

4,484

1,901

4,288

1,626

Expected return on plan assets

(3,505

)

(780

)

(5,169

)

(1,017

)

(5,242

)

(1,075

)

Net amortization

5,299


2,244


2,730


Net periodic benefit cost

$

7,720

$

2,536

$

3,324

$

2,197

$

3,652

$

2,140

Other Benefits




(In thousands)

Service cost

$


$


$


Interest cost

1,018

1,328

1,230

Net amortization

(385

)



Net periodic benefit cost

$

1,101

$

2,072

$

2,068

U.S. Plans

Non-U.S. Plans







Discount rate

6.30

%

6.40

%

5.80

%

5.73

%

5.48

%

4.80

%

Expected return on plan assets

8.50

%

8.50

%

8.50

%

6.05

%

5.82

%

6.00

%

Rate of compensation increase

4.00

%

4.00

%

4.00

%

3.17

%

3.92

%

3.72

%



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table provides pretax amounts recognized in
    Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in 2009:

Pension Benefits

Other

U.S.

Non-U.S.

Benefits

(In thousands)

Net gain (loss) in current year

$

(1,683

)

$

2,320

$

1,418

Prior service cost

—

—

2,932

Amortization of prior service cost (credit)



(304

)

Amortization of net loss (gain)

4,986


(81

)

Exchange rate effect on amounts in OCI

—

(418

)


Total

$

3,615

$

2,272

$

3,976

The discount rates for our plans are derived by matching the
    plan’s cash flows to a yield curve that provides the
    equivalent yields on zero-coupon bonds for each maturity. The
    discount rate selected is the rate that produces the same
    present value of cash flows.

In selecting the expected rate of return on plan assets, the
    Company considers the historical returns and expected returns on
    plan assets. The expected returns are evaluated using asset
    return class, variance and correlation assumptions based on the
    plan’s target asset allocation and current market
    conditions.

Prior service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over
    the average remaining service period of active participants.
    Gains and losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the benefit
    obligation or the market value of assets are amortized over the
    average remaining service period of active participants. Costs
    of bargaining unit-sponsored multi-employer plans and defined
    contribution plans were $9.6 million, $9.8 million and
    $9.4 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

For measurement purposes, a 7.6% weighted average annual rate of
    increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits
    was assumed for 2009. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually
    each year to a rate of 5.40% for 2015, and remain at that level
    thereafter. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a
    significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care
    plans. A 1% increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates
    would increase the service and interest cost components of the
    net periodic benefit cost by $0.1 million and the health
    care component of the accumulated postretirement benefit
    obligation by $1.5 million. A 1% decrease in the assumed
    health care cost trend rate would decrease the service and
    interest cost components of the net periodic benefit cost by
    $0.1 million and the health care component of the
    accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by
    $1.2 million.

Plan
    Assets

The Company’s pension plan weighted average asset
    allocations at December 31, 2009 and 2008, by asset
    category, were as follows:



Equity securities


%


%

Fixed income securities



Other

—


Total


%


%



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes the basis used to measure defined
    benefit plans’ assets at fair value at December 31,
    2009:

Basis of Fair Value Measurement

Outstanding Balances

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

(In thousands)

Equities:

U.S.

$

11,107

$

11,107

$

—

$

—

Non U.S.

6,749

6,749

—

—

Absolute return funds(1)

49,386

17,930

31,456

—

Other(2)

1,343

1,343

—

—

$

68,585

$

37,129

$

31,456

$

—

(1)

Primarily funds invested by managers that have a global mandate
    with the flexibility to allocate capital broadly across a wide
    range of asset classes and strategies including, but not limited
    to equities, fixed income, commodities, interest rate futures,
    currencies and other securities to outperform an agreed
    benchmark with specific return and volatility targets.

(2)

Primarily cash and cash equivalents.

Equities that are valued using quoted prices are valued at the
    published market prices. Equities in a common collective trust
    or a registered investment company that are valued using
    significant other observable inputs are valued at the net asset
    value (NAV) provided by the fund administrator. The NAV is based
    on value of the underlying assets owned by the fund minus its
    liabilities. Fixed income securities that are valued using
    significant other observable inputs are valued at prices
    obtained from independent financial service industry-recognized
    vendors.

Investment
    Policies and Strategies

The investment objectives of the Company’s plan assets are
    to earn the highest possible rate of return consistent with the
    tolerance for risk as determined periodically by the Company in
    its role as a fiduciary. The general guidelines of asset
    allocation of fund assets are that “equities” will
    represent from 55% to 75% of the market value of total fund
    assets with a target of 66%, and “fixed income”
    obligations, including cash, will represent from 25% to 45% with
    a target of 34%. The term “equities” includes common
    stock, convertible bonds and convertible stock. The term
    “fixed income” includes preferred stock

and/or

contractual payments with a specific maturity date. The Company
    strives to maintain asset allocations within the designated
    ranges by conducting periodic reviews of fund allocations and
    plan liquidity needs, and rebalancing the portfolio accordingly.
    The total fund performance is monitored and results measured
    using a 3- to

5-year

moving average against long-term absolute and relative return
    objectives to meet actuarially determined forecasted benefit
    obligations. No restrictions are placed on the selection of
    individual investments by the qualified investment fund
    managers. The performance of the investment fund managers is
    reviewed on a regular basis, using appointed professional
    independent advisors. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    there were no shares of the Company’s stock held in plan
    assets.

Cash
    Flows

The Company expects to contribute approximately
    $4.7 million to its defined benefit plans and
    $1.0 million to its other postretirement benefit plans in
    2010. The Company also expects to contribute approximately
    $11.8 million to its defined contribution plans in 2010.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Estimated
    Future Benefit Payments

The future estimated benefit payments for the next five years
    and the five years thereafter are as follows: 2010 —
    $7.7 million; 2011 — $8.0 million;
    2012 — $8.7 million; 2013 —
    $8.6 million; 2014-$9.9 million; 2015 to
    2019 — $48.7 million.

18.

Quarterly
    Results of Operations (Unaudited)

The following table summarizes the unaudited quarterly results
    of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008.

2009 Quarters

2008 Quarters(1)

First

Second

Third

Fourth

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Net sales

$

326,613

$

336,455

$

323,249

$

343,344

$

371,662

$

397,310

$

365,193

$

355,306

Gross profit

123,194

131,101

129,058

139,033

152,480

161,510

147,784

135,659

Operating income(2)

39,161

46,735

46,517

52,441

65,412

72,110

30,804

37,630

Net income

$

22,605

$

27,922

$

29,777

$

33,087

$

39,603

$

45,060

$

19,883

$

22,480

Basic EPS

$

.28

$

.35

$

.37

$

.41

$

.49

$

.55

$

.24

$

.28

Diluted EPS

$

.28

$

.34

$

.37

$

.40

$

.48

$

.54

$

.24

$

.27

Basic weighted average shares outstanding

79,513

79,675

79,740

79,937

81,067

81,322

81,572

80,529

Diluted weighted average shares outstanding

80,219

80,507

80,879

81,303

82,288

82,746

82,957

81,289

(1)

Certain prior year amounts have been restated to reflect the
    LIFO to FIFO inventory costing change. Statements (continue

(2)

Third quarter 2008 operating income includes a
    $30.1 million goodwill impairment charge for Fluid
    Management.



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of IDEX Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    IDEX Corporation and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as
    of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated
    statements of operations, shareholders’ equity, and cash
    flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial
    statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
    management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
    Company as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results
    of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
    in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement
    schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
    financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
    material respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2, in 2009, the Company changed its
    method of accounting for approximately 85% of its net
    inventories from the

last-in,

first-out method to the

first-in,

first-out method and, retrospectively, adjusted the 2008 and
    2007 financial statements for the change.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in
    Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission, and our report dated February 26, 2010,
    expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting.

/s/  Deloitte &
    Touche LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 26, 2010



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of IDEX Corporation

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
    IDEX Corporation and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as
    of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
    Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    Company’s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing, and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company’s principal executive and principal financial
    officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
    by the company’s board of directors, management, and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America (“generally accepted accounting principles”).
    A company’s internal control over financial reporting
    includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
    the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
    accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
    of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
    assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
    preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
    expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
    with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
    and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
    or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
    disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
    material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
    financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
    improper management override of controls, material misstatements
    due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
    effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
    to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
    become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
    degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in
    Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, of
    the Company and our report dated February 26, 2010,
    expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
    statements and financial statement schedule and included an
    explanatory paragraph referring to the Company’s change in
    the method of accounting for 85% of the Company’s net
    inventories from the

last-in,

first-out method to the

first-in,

first-out method in 2009.

/s/  Deloitte &
    Touche LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 26, 2010



MANAGEMENT’S
    REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Internal control over financial reporting refers to the process
    designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and effected by our board
    of directors, management and other personnel, to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America, and includes
    those policies and procedures that:

•

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
    detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
    dispositions of the assets of the Company;

•

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of
    the Company are being made only in accordance with
    authorizations of management and directors of the
    Company; and

•

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
    Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide
    absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives
    because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over
    financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence
    and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and
    breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over
    financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or
    improper management override. Because of such limitations, there
    is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or
    detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial
    reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known
    features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is
    possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though
    not eliminate, this risk. Management is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting for the Company. Management has used the
    framework set forth in the report entitled “Internal
    Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    to assess the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting. Management has concluded that
    the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was
    effective as of December 31, 2009.

The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, has been
    audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent
    registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report
    which appears herein.

/s/  Lawrence
    D. Kingsley

Lawrence D. Kingsley

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

/s/  Dominic
    A. Romeo

Dominic A. Romeo

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Northbrook, Illinois

February 26, 2010



Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures.

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that
    are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed
    in the Company’s Exchange Act reports is recorded,
    processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
    specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such
    information is accumulated and communicated to the
    Company’s management, including its Chief Executive Officer
    and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure.

As required by SEC

Rule 13a-15(b),

the Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and
    with the participation of the Company’s management,
    including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the
    Company’s Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of
    the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure
    controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by
    this report. Based on the foregoing, the Company’s Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the
    Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

The information set forth under the captions “Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and
    “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting” on pages 62-64 of Part II.
    Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data is
    incorporated herein by reference.

There has been no change in the Company’s internal controls
    over financial reporting during the Company’s most recent
    fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably
    likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control
    over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

Other
    Information.

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

Information under the headings “Election of Directors”
    and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance,” and the information under the subheading
    “Information Regarding the Board of Directors and
    Committees,” in the Company’s 2010 Proxy Statement is
    incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding
    executive officers of the Company is located in Part I.
    Item 1. of this report under the caption “Executive
    Officers of the Registrant.”

The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
    applicable to the Company’s directors, officers (including
    the Company’s principal executive officer and principal
    financial & accounting officer) and employees. The
    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, along with the Audit
    Committee Charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
    Charter, Compensation Committee Charter and Corporate Governance
    Guidelines are available on the Company’s website at

www.idexcorp.com

.

In the event that we amend or waive any of the provisions of the
    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to our principal
    executive officer or principal financial & accounting
    officer, we intend to disclose the same on the Company’s
    website.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation.

Information under the heading “Executive Compensation”
    in the Company’s 2010 Proxy Statement is incorporated
    herein by reference.



Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Shareholder Matters.

Information under the heading “Security Ownership” and
    the information under the subheading “Equity Compensation
    Plans” in the Company’s 2010 Proxy Statement is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.

No certain relationships exist. Information under the heading
    “Information Regarding the Board of Directors and
    Committees” in the Company’s 2010 Proxy Statement is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services

Information under the heading “Principal Accountant Fees
    and Services” in the Company’s 2010 Proxy Statement is
    incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedule.

(A) 1. Financial Statements

Consolidated financial statements filed as part of this report
    are listed under Part II. Item 8. “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

2. Financial Statement Schedule

2009 Form

10-K Page

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts


All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable,
    not required, or because the required information is included in
    the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company or the
    Notes thereto.

3. Exhibits

The exhibits filed with this report are listed on the
    “Exhibit Index.”

(B) Exhibit Index

Reference is made to the Exhibit Index beginning on
    page 69 hereof.



IDEX
    CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE II —
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

FOR THE
    YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009, 2008 AND 2007

Charged

Balance

to Costs

Balance

Beginning

and

End of

Description

of Year

Expenses(1)

Deductions(2)

Other(3)

Year

(In thousands)

Year Ended December 31, 2009:

Deducted from assets to which they apply:

Accounts receivable reserves

$

5,600

$

1,789

$


$

(612

)

$

6,160

Year Ended December 31, 2008:

Deducted from assets to which they apply:

Accounts receivable reserves

5,746

1,379

1,621


5,600

Year Ended December 31, 2007:

Deducted from assets to which they apply:

Accounts receivable reserves

3,545

2,636



5,746



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

IDEX CORPORATION

By:

/s/

DOMINIC
    A. ROMEO

Dominic A. Romeo

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Date: February 26, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/

LAWRENCE
    D. KINGSLEY

Lawrence
    D. Kingsley

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (Principal
    Executive Officer)

February 26, 2010

/s/

DOMINIC
    A. ROMEO

Dominic
    A. Romeo

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial
    Officer)

February 26, 2010

/s/

MICHAEL
    J. YATES

Michael
    J. Yates

Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal
    Accounting Officer)

February 26, 2010

/s/

BRADLEY
    J. BELL

Bradley
    J. Bell

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/

RUBY
    R. CHANDY

Ruby
    R. Chandy

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/

WILLIAM
    M. COOK

William
    M. Cook

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/

FRANK
    S. HERMANCE

Frank
    S. Hermance

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/

GREGORY
    F. MILZCIK

Gregory
    F. Milzcik

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/

NEIL
    A. SPRINGER

Neil
    A. Springer

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/

MICHAEL
    T. TOKARZ

Michael
    T. Tokarz

Director

February 26, 2010



Exhibit Index

Exhibit

Number

Description


.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of IDEX Corporation
    (formerly HI, Inc.) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
    3.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of IDEX, et al.,
    Registration No. 33-21205, as filed on April 21, 1988)


.1(a)

Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of IDEX
    Corporation (formerly HI, Inc.) (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit No. 3.1 (a) to the Quarterly Report of IDEX on Form 10-Q
    for the quarter ended March 31, 1996, Commission File No.
    1-10235)


.1(b)

Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation of IDEX
    Corporation (formerly HI, Inc.) (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit No. 3.1 (b) to the Current Report of IDEX on Form 8-K
    March 24, 2005, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.2

Amended and Restated By-Laws of IDEX Corporation (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit No. 3.2 to Post-Effective Amendment No.
    2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 of IDEX, et al.,
    Registration No. 33-21205, as filed on July 17, 1989)


.2(a)

Amended and Restated Article III, Section 13 of the Amended and
    Restated By-Laws of IDEX Corporation (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit No. 3.2 (a) to Post-Effective Amendment No. 3 to the
    Registration Statement on Form S-1 of IDEX, et al., Registration
    No. 33-21205, as filed on February 12, 1990)


.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws of IDEX
    Corporation (filed as Exhibits No. 3.1 through 3.2 (a))


.4

Specimen Certificate of Common Stock of IDEX Corporation
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.3 to the
    Registration Statement on Form S-2 of IDEX, et al., Registration
    No. 33-42208, as filed on September 16, 1991)


.5

Credit Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2006, among IDEX
    Corporation, Bank of America N.A. as Agent and Issuing Bank, and
    the Other Financial Institutions Party Hereto (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report of IDEX on Form
    8-K dated December 22, 2006, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.5(a)

Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement, dated as of September 29,
    2008, among IDEX Corporation, Bank of America N.A. as Agent and
    Issuing Bank, and the other financial institutions party hereto
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.3 (a) to the
    Quarterly Report of IDEX on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.6

Credit Lyonnais Uncommitted Line of Credit, dated as of December
    3, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Annual
    Report of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
    2001, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.6(a)

Amendment No. 8 dated as of December 12, 2007 to the Credit
    Lyonnais Uncommitted Line of Credit Agreement dated December 3,
    2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 (a) to the Annual
    Report of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
    2007, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.7

Term Loan Agreement, dated April 18, 2008, among IDEX
    Corporation, Bank of America N.A. as Agent, and the other
    financial institutions party hereto (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Current Report of IDEX on
    Form 8-K dated April 18, 2008, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.1**

Revised and Restated IDEX Management Incentive Compensation Plan
    for Key Employees Effective January 1, 2003 (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report of IDEX on
    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, Commission File
    No. 1-10235)


.2**

Form of Indemnification Agreement of IDEX Corporation
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.23 to the
    Registration Statement on Form S-1 of IDEX, et al., Registration
    No. 33-28317, as filed on April 26, 1989)



Exhibit

Number

Description


.3**

IDEX Corporation Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan for
    Outside Directors adopted by resolution of the Board of
    Directors dated as of January 25, 2000 (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 of the Quarterly Report of IDEX on
    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000, Commission File
    No. 10-10235)


.3(a)**

First Amendment to IDEX Corporation Amended and Restated Stock
    Option Plan for Outside Directors, adopted by resolution of the
    Board of Directors dated as of November 20, 2003 (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.6 (a) to the Annual Report of IDEX on
    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003)


.4**

Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Officer Key Employees of
    IDEX Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.15
    to the Annual Report of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 1992, Commission File No. 1-102351)


.5**

Third Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Option Plan for
    Non-Officer Key Employees of IDEX Corporation dated January 9,
    2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Registration Statement on Form S-8 of IDEX, Registration No.
    333-104768, as filed on April 25, 2003)


.6**

Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for Officers of IDEX Corporation
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.16 to the Annual
    Report of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
    1992, Commission File No. 1-102351)


.7**

First Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Plan for Officers of IDEX
    Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to
    the Quarterly Report of IDEX on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    March 31, 1998, Commission File No. 1-102351)


.8**

2001 Stock Plan for Officers dated March 27, 2001 (incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to the Quarterly Report of IDEX
    on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2001, Commission
    File No. 1-10235)


.9**

IDEX Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.17 to the Annual
    Report of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
    1992, Commission File No. 1-102351)


.10**

Second Amended and Restated IDEX Corporation Directors Deferred
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
    10.14 (b) to the Annual Report of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year
    ended December 31, 1997, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.11**

IDEX Corporation 1996 Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.8 to the
    Registration Statement on Form S-8 of IDEX, et al., Registration

No. 333-18643,

as filed on December 23, 1996)


.11(a)**

First Amendment to the IDEX Corporation 1996 Deferred
    Compensation Plan for Officers, dated March 23, 2004
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Quarterly
    Report of IDEX on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004)


.12**

IDEX Corporation 1996 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Officer
    Presidents (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.7 to the
    Registration Statement on Form S-8 of IDEX, et al., Registrant
    No. 333-18643, as filed on December 23, 1996)


.13**

Letter Agreement between IDEX Corporation and John L. McMurray,
    dated April 24, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
    10.17 (a) to the Annual Report of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year
    ended December 31, 2001, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.14**

Letter Agreement between IDEX Corporation and Dominic A. Romeo,
    dated December 1, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
    10.21 to the Annual Report of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year
    ended December 31, 2005)


.15**

Employment Agreement between IDEX Corporation and Lawrence D.
    Kingsley, dated July 21, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Quarterly Report of IDEX on Form 10-Q
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2004)


.15(a)**

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between IDEX Corporation
    and Lawrence D. Kingsley, dated March 22, 2005 (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.20 (a) to the Current Report of IDEX on
    Form 8-K dated March 24, 2005, Commission File No. 1-10235)



Exhibit

Number

Description


.16**

Form Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.23 to the Current Report of IDEX on Form 8-K dated
    March 24, 2005, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.17**

Form Unvested Stock Agreement (incorporated by reference to
    Appendix A of the Proxy Statement of IDEX Corporation, dated
    February 25, 2005, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.18**

IDEX Corporation Incentive Award Plan (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.24 to the Current Report of IDEX on Form 8-K dated
    March 24, 2005, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.19**

Letter Agreement between IDEX Corporation and Frank J. Notaro,
    dated April 24, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25
    to the Annual Report of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 2005, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.20**

Definitive agreement to acquire Nova Technologies Corporation,
    dated November 13, 2007, (incorporated by reference to exhibit
    10.1 to the Current Report of IDEX on Form 8-K dated November
    16, 2007, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.21**

IDEX Corporation Incentive Award Plan (as Amended and Restated)
    (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Proxy Statement
    of IDEX Corporation, filed March 7, 2008, Commission File No.
    1-10235)


.22**

IDEX Corporation Restricted Stock Award Agreement with Lawrence
    Kingsley, dated April 8, 2008 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report of IDEX Corporation on Form
    8-K, dated April 8, 2008, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.23**

IDEX Corporation Restricted Stock Award Agreement with Dominic
    Romeo, dated April 8, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    10.3 to the Current Report of IDEX Corporation on Form 8-K,
    dated April 8, 2008, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.24**

Form of IDEX Corporation Restricted Stock Award Agreement, dated
    April 8, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
    Current Report of IDEX Corporation on Form 8-K, dated April 8,
    2008, Commission File No. 1-10235)


.25**

Second Amendment to Employment Agreement between IDEX
    Corporation and Lawrence D. Kingsley, dated December 8, 2008
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Annual Report
    of IDEX on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    Commission File No. 1-10235)

*10

.26**

Letter Agreement between IDEX Corporation and Harold Morgan,
    dated June 6, 2008

*12

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

*13

The portions of IDEX Corporation’s 2009 Annual Report to
    Shareholders, which are specifically incorporated by reference.


Letter from Deloitte and Touche, LLP regarding change in
    accounting principle hereto (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit No. 18 to the Quarterly Report of IDEX on Form 10-Q for
    the quarter ended March 31, 2009, Commission File No. 1-10235)

*21

Subsidiaries of IDEX

*23

Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP

*31

.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14
    (a) or Rule 15d-14(a)

*31

.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14
    (a) or Rule 15d-14(a)

*32

.1

Certification pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18
    of the United States Code

*32

.2

Certification pursuant to Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18
    of the United States Code

*

Filed herewith

**

Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.

71