Item 1.    Business.

GENERAL

Comerica Incorporated ("Comerica") is a financial services company, incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, and
headquartered in Dallas, Texas. As of December 31, 2009, it was among the 25 largest commercial bank holding companies in the United States. Comerica was formed in 1973 to acquire the
outstanding common stock of Comerica Bank, which at such time was a Michigan banking corporation and one of Michigan's oldest banks (formerly Comerica Bank-Detroit). On October 31,
2007, Comerica Bank, a Michigan banking corporation, was merged with and into Comerica Bank, a Texas banking association ("Comerica Bank"). As of December 31, 2009, Comerica owned directly or
indirectly all the outstanding common stock of 2 active banking and 48 non-banking subsidiaries. At December 31, 2009, Comerica had total assets of approximately
$59.2 billion, total deposits of approximately $39.7 billion, total loans (net of unearned income) of approximately $42.2 billion and shareholders' equity of approximately
$7.0 billion.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and
Wealth & Institutional Management. In addition to the three major business segments, the Finance Division is also reported as a segment.

The
Business Bank is primarily comprised of the following businesses: middle market, commercial real estate, national dealer services, international finance, global corporate, leasing,
financial services, and technology and life sciences. This business segment meets the needs of medium-size businesses, multinational corporations and governmental entities by offering
various products and services, including commercial loans and lines of credit, deposits, cash management, capital market products, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange
management services and loan syndication services.

The
Retail Bank includes small business banking and personal financial services, consisting of consumer lending, consumer deposit gathering and mortgage loan origination. In addition to
a full range of financial services provided to small business customers, this business segment offers a variety of consumer products, including deposit accounts, installment loans, credit cards,
student loans, home equity lines of credit and residential mortgage loans.

Wealth &
Institutional Management offers products and services consisting of fiduciary services, private banking, retirement services, investment management and advisory services,
investment banking and
discount securities brokerage services. This business segment also offers the sale of annuity products, as well as life, disability and long-term care insurance products.

The
Finance segment includes Comerica's securities portfolio and asset and liability management activities. This segment is responsible for managing Comerica's funding, liquidity and
capital needs, performing interest sensitivity analysis and executing various strategies to manage Comerica's exposure to liquidity, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.

In
addition, Comerica has positioned itself to deliver financial services in its four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida.

The
Midwest market consists of Michigan, Ohio and Illinois. The Michigan operations represent the significant majority of the Midwest market.

The
Western market consists of the states of California, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado and Washington. Currently, California operations represent the significant majority of the Western
market.









The
Texas and Florida markets consist of the states of Texas and Florida, respectively.

In
addition to the four primary geographic markets, Comerica also considers Other Markets and International as market segments. Other Markets include businesses with a national
perspective, Comerica's investment management and trust alliance businesses as well as activities in all other markets in which Comerica has operations, except for the International market. The
International market represents the activities of Comerica's international finance division, which provides banking services primarily to foreign-owned, North American-based companies and secondarily
to international operations of North American-based companies.

We
provide financial information for our segments and information about our non-U.S. revenues and long-lived assets: (1) under the caption, "Strategic
Lines of Business" on pages 25 through 29 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference; and
(2) in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on pages 138 through 143 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 2009, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

We
provide information about the net interest income and noninterest income we received from our various classes of products and services: (1) under the caption, "Analysis of Net
Interest Income—Fully Taxable Equivalent (FTE)" on page 15 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009, which page is hereby incorporated
by reference; (2) under the caption "Net Interest Income" on page 17 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009, which page is hereby
incorporated by reference; and (3) under the caption "Noninterest Income" on pages 19 through 21 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009,
which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

We
provide information on risks attendant to foreign operations: (1) under the caption, "Provision for Credit Losses" on pages 18 and 19 of Comerica's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference; (2) under the caption "Geographic Market Segments" on page 27 through 29 of
Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference; (3) under the caption, "International Cross-Border
Outstandings" on page 35 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009, which page is hereby incorporated by reference; and (4) under the
caption "Allowance for Credit Losses" on pages 39 through 41 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009, which pages are hereby incorporated by
reference.

COMPETITION

The financial services business is highly competitive. Comerica's banking subsidiaries compete primarily with banks based in its
primary areas of operations in the United States for loans, deposits and trust accounts. Through its offices in Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan,
Minnesota, North Carolina, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Washington, Comerica competes with other financial institutions for various deposits, loans and/or other
products and services.

Based
on the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the "Interstate Act") and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act as described below, Comerica believes
that the level of competition in all geographic markets will increase in the future. In addition to banks, Comerica's banking subsidiaries also face competition from other financial intermediaries,
including savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, leasing companies, venture capital funds, credit unions, investment banks, insurance companies and securities firms.









SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

Banks, bank holding companies and financial institutions are highly regulated at both the state and federal level. Comerica is subject
to supervision and regulation at the federal level by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("FRB") under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.

The
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the activities in which a bank holding company registered as a financial holding company can engage. The conditions to be a financial holding company
include, among others, the requirement that each depository institution subsidiary of the holding company be well capitalized and well managed.

Comerica
became a financial holding company in 2000. As a financial holding company, Comerica may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in activities that
are financial in nature. Activities that are "financial in nature" include, but are not limited to: securities underwriting; securities dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and
investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; travel agent services; and activities that the FRB has determined to be financial in nature or incidental or complementary to
a financial activity, provided that it does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of the depository institution or the financial system generally. A bank holding company that is not
also a financial holding company is limited to engaging in banking and other activities previously determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking.

Comerica
Bank is chartered by the State of Texas and at the state level is supervised and regulated by the Texas Department of Banking. Comerica Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve
System ("FRS") and supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association is chartered under federal law and is subject to supervision and
regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"). Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association is also a member of the FRS. The deposits of Comerica Bank and Comerica
Bank & Trust, National Association are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") to the extent provided by law.

The
FRB supervises non-banking activities conducted by companies directly and indirectly owned by Comerica. In addition, Comerica's non-banking subsidiaries are
subject to supervision and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (in the case of
Comerica Securities, Inc. and Comerica Capital Markets Corporation), the Office of Financial and Insurance Services of the State of Michigan (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and
Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.), and the Securities and Exchange Commission (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc., Comerica Capital Markets Corporation and World Asset
Management, Inc.).

In
most cases, no FRB approval is required for Comerica to acquire a company engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature,
as determined by the FRB. Prior FRB approval, however, is required before Comerica may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the
assets of a financial or bank holding company or a bank. Comerica's current rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 ("CRA") is "outstanding". If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to
receive a rating under the CRA of less than "satisfactory", Comerica would be prohibited from engaging in certain activities. In addition, Comerica is "well capitalized" and "well managed" under FRB
standards. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to cease being "well capitalized" or "well managed" under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB could place limitations on Comerica's ability to
conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or impose limitations or conditions on the conduct or activities of Comerica or its affiliates. If the deficiencies
persisted, the FRB could order Comerica to divest any subsidiary bank or to cease engaging in any











activities
permissible for financial holding companies that are not permissible for bank holding companies, or Comerica could elect to conform its non-banking activities to those
permissible for a bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company.

Various
governmental requirements, including Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the FRB's Regulation W, limit borrowings by Comerica and its nonbank
subsidiaries from its affiliate insured depository institutions, and also limit various other transactions between Comerica and its nonbank subsidiaries, on the one hand, and its affiliate insured
depository institutions, on the other. For example, Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act limits the aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution's loans and other
"covered transactions" with any particular nonbank affiliate to no more than 10% of the institution's total capital and limits the aggregate outstanding amount of any insured depository institution's
covered transactions with all of its nonbank affiliates to no more than 20% of its total capital. Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act also generally requires that an insured depository
institution's loans to its nonbank affiliates be, at a minimum, 100% secured, and Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act generally requires that an insured depository institution's transactions
with its nonbank affiliates be on arms-length terms.

Set
forth below are summaries of selected laws and regulations applicable to Comerica and its domestic banks and other subsidiaries. The summaries are not complete, are qualified in
their entirety by references to the particular statutes and regulations, and are not intended as legal advice. A change in applicable law or regulation could have a material effect on the business of
Comerica.

Interstate Banking and Branching

Pursuant to the Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (the "Interstate Act"), a bank holding company may acquire banks in
states other than its home state, without regard to the permissibility of such acquisition under state law, but subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a
minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to and following the proposed acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of
deposits of insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30% of such deposits in that state (or such amount as established by state law if such amount is lower than 30%).

The
Interstate Act also authorizes banks to acquire branch offices outside their home states by merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in other
states and establishing de novo branches in other states, thereby creating interstate branching, provided that, in the case of purchasing branches and establishing new branches in a state in which it
does not already have banking operations, such state must have "opted-in" to the Interstate Act by enacting a law permitting such branch purchases or de novo branching and, in the case of
mergers, such state must not have "opted-out" of that portion of the Interstate Act.

As
permitted by the Interstate Act, Comerica has consolidated most of its banking business into one bank, Comerica Bank, with branches in Texas, Michigan, California, Florida and
Arizona.

Dividends

Comerica is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Most of Comerica's revenues result from
dividends its bank subsidiaries pay it. There are statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to Comerica, as well as by Comerica to its
shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements are discussed below.

Comerica
Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are required by federal law to obtain the prior approval of the FRB and/or the OCC, as the case may be, for the
declaration and payment of dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank in











any
calendar year will exceed the total of (i) such bank's retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and
interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or to fund the retirement of preferred stock. Further, federal regulatory agencies can prohibit a banking
institution or bank holding company from engaging in unsafe and unsound banking practices and could prohibit the payment of dividends under circumstances in which such payment could be deemed an
unsafe and unsound banking practice. In addition, Comerica Bank is also subject to limitations under Texas state law regarding the amount of earnings that may be paid out as dividends, and requiring
prior approval for payments of dividends that exceed certain levels.

At
January 1, 2010, Comerica's subsidiary banks, without obtaining prior governmental approvals, could declare aggregate dividends of approximately $56 million from
retained net profits of the preceding two years, plus an amount approximately equal to the retained net profits (as measured under current regulations), if any, earned for the period from
January 1, 2010 through the date of declaration. Comerica has sufficient liquid assets at December 31, 2009 to fulfill its 2010 dividend payment objectives without reliance on dividends
from banking subsidiaries. Comerica's subsidiary banks declared dividends of $59 million in 2009, $267 million in 2008, and $614 million in 2007 without the need for prior
governmental approvals. In addition, as a participant in the Capital Purchase Program, effective November 14, 2008, Comerica cannot increase its quarterly dividend above $0.33 per common share
(the quarterly dividend rate in effect as of November 14, 2008). For a discussion of the Capital Purchase Program, please refer to pages 8 and 9 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Source of Strength

FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to
support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support without adversely affecting its ability to meet other
obligations. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC (either as a result of the failure of a
banking or thrift subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of failure), the other banking subsidiaries may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to certain
exceptions.

FDICIA

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act ("FDICIA") requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take
"prompt corrective action" in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized,"
"undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized." A depository institution's capital tier will depend upon where its capital levels are in relation to various
relevant capital measures, which, among others, include a Tier 1 and total risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure.

Regulations
establishing the specific capital tiers provide that, for a depository institution to be well capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at
least 10% and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to any specific capital order or directive. For an
institution to be adequately capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4%, and a
Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4% (and in some cases 3%). Under certain circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized
institution as if the institution were in the next lower capital category.









As
of December 31, 2009, Comerica and its U.S. banking subsidiaries exceeded the ratios required for an institution to be considered "well capitalized" under these regulations.

FDICIA
generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the
depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to limitations on growth and certain activities and are required to submit an
acceptable capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely
to succeed in restoring the depository institution's capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository institution's parent holding company must guarantee for a
specific time period that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited to the lesser of
(i) an amount equal to 5% of the depository institution's total assets at the time it became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to
bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to
submit or implement an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.

Significantly
undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to a number of requirements and restrictions. Specifically, such a depository institution may be required to do one or
more of the following, among other things: sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, reduce the interest rates it pays on deposits, reduce its rate of asset growth, dismiss
certain senior executive officers or directors, or stop accepting deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or
conservator or such other action as the FDIC and the applicable federal banking agency shall determine appropriate.

FDICIA
also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the operations of depository institutions including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate
lending, "truth in savings" provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch, and a
prohibition on the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC.

Capital Requirements

Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB and/or
the OCC.

For
this purpose, a depository institution's or holding company's assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments are assigned to four risk categories, each
weighted differently based on the level of credit risk that is ascribed to such assets or commitments. A depository institution's or holding company's capital, in turn, is divided into two tiers: core
("Tier 1") capital, which includes common equity, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus
(excluding auction rate issues) and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, certain identifiable intangible assets and certain other assets; and
supplementary ("Tier 2") capital, which includes, among other items, perpetual preferred stock not meeting the Tier 1 definition, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt, and
allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations, less certain required deductions. Bank holding companies that engage in trading activities, whose trading activities exceed
specified levels, also are required to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign exchange, and commodity positions, whether
resulting from broad market movements (such as changes in the general level of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices) or from position specific factors.









Comerica, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain Tier 1 and "total capital" (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2
capital) equal to at least 4% and 8% of its total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit), respectively. At
December 31, 2009, Comerica met both requirements, with Tier 1 and total capital equal to 12.46% and 16.93% of its total risk-weighted assets, respectively.

Comerica
is also required to maintain a minimum "leverage ratio" (Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets) of 3% to 5%, depending upon criteria defined and assessed by the FRB.
Comerica's leverage ratio of 13.25% at December 31, 2009 reflects the nature of Comerica's balance sheet and demonstrates a commitment to capital adequacy.

As
an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain
non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions any such agency supervises. The standards relate generally to, among others, earnings, liquidity, operations and management,
asset quality, various risk and management exposures (e.g., credit, operational, market, interest rate, etc.) and executive compensation. The agencies
are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

FDIC Insurance Assessments

Comerica's subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF").
Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2008, Comerica and its subsidiary banks elected to participate in the FDIC's Transaction Account Guarantee Program that requires the payment of additional
insurance premiums to the FDIC. During the fourth quarter of 2009, Comerica further elected to continue its participation in the FDIC's Transaction Account Guarantee Program through June 30,
2010.

In
addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC announced that it would seek public comment on whether financial institutions with compensation plans that encourage risky behavior
should be charged higher deposit assessment rates than such financial institutions would otherwise be charged.

The
FDIC is not precluded from changing assessment rates or from further revising the risk-based assessment system during the prepayment period or thereafter. Thus, Comerica
may also be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance assessments premiums in the future because market developments significantly depleted DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured
deposits.









Enforcement Powers of Federal Banking Agencies

The FRB and other federal banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose
substantial fines and other civil penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as
officers and directors of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil and criminal penalties.

Recent Regulatory Developments

In response to global credit and liquidity issues involving a number of financial institutions, the United States government,
particularly the United States Department of the Treasury (the "U.S. Treasury") and the FDIC, have taken a variety of extraordinary measures designed to restore confidence in the financial markets and
to strengthen financial institutions, including capital injections, guarantees of bank liabilities and the acquisition of illiquid assets from banks.

On
October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA") was signed into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury was granted the authority to take a
range of actions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets and has proposed several programs, including the purchase by the U.S. Treasury of certain troubled
assets from financial institutions (the "Troubled Asset Relief Program") and the direct purchase by the U.S. Treasury of equity of healthy financial institutions (the "Capital Purchase Program"). The
EESA also temporarily raised the limit on federal deposit insurance coverage provided by the FDIC from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor.

Among
other programs and actions taken by the U.S. regulatory agencies, the FDIC implemented the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ("TLGP") to strengthen confidence and encourage
liquidity in the banking system. The TLGP is comprised of the Debt Guarantee Program ("DGP") and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program ("TAGP"). The DGP guarantees all newly issued senior
unsecured debt (e.g., promissory notes, unsubordinated unsecured notes and commercial paper) up to prescribed limits issued by participating entities beginning on October 14, 2008 and
continuing through October 31, 2009. For eligible debt issued by that date, the FDIC will provide the guarantee coverage
until the earlier of the maturity date of the debt or December 31, 2012 (or June 30, 2012 for debt issued prior to April 1, 2009). The TAGP offers full guarantee for
noninterest-bearing transaction accounts held at FDIC-insured depository institutions. The unlimited deposit coverage was voluntary for eligible institutions and was in addition to the
$250,000 FDIC deposit insurance per account that was included as part of the EESA. The TAGP coverage became effective on October 14, 2008 and will continue for Comerica and other participating
institutions until June 30, 2010.

Capital Purchase ProgramPursuant
to the Capital Purchase Program, on November 14, 2008, Comerica issued to the U.S. Treasury, in exchange for aggregate consideration of $2.25 billion,
(1) 2.25 million shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F, no par value (the "Series F Preferred Stock"), and (2) a warrant to purchase
11,479,592 shares of Comerica's common stock at an exercise price of $29.40 per share (the "Warrant"). The number of shares of common stock to be issued pursuant to the Warrant and the exercise price
of the Warrant are subject to anti-dilution and other adjustments from time to time following, among other things, stock splits, subdivisions or combinations, certain issuances of common
stock or convertible securities and certain repurchases of common stock. The Series F Preferred Stock (a) has a liquidation amount per share equal to $1,000 for an aggregate value of
$2.25 billion and (b) pays a cumulative annual dividend of five percent (5%) for the first five years and nine percent (9%) on an annual basis thereafter. The Warrant expires ten years
from the issuance date. Both the Series F Preferred Stock and the Warrant were accounted for as components of Comerica's regulatory Tier 1 capital. The letter









agreement
between the U.S. Treasury and Comerica, dated November 14, 2008, including the securities purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") concerning the issuance and sale of the
Series F Preferred Stock and the Warrant, grants the holders of the Series F Preferred Stock, the Warrant and Comerica common stock to be issued under the Warrant certain registration
rights and imposes restrictions on dividend and stock repurchases. For example, Comerica's participation in the Capital Purchase Program limits, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, its ability
to (i) increase its quarterly dividend above $0.33 per common share (the quarterly dividend rate in effect as of November 14, 2008) or (ii) repurchase any of its shares with
limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. In addition, the terms of Purchase Agreement subject Comerica to certain executive compensation limitations as set
forth in the EESA. For additional details about the Capital Purchase Program, please refer to page 37 under the caption "Capital" and Note 15 on pages 116 through 118 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009.

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program

Effective
October 1, 2009, in order to assure an orderly phase out of the TAGP, FDIC extended the TAGP for six months until June 30, 2010. Any insured depository
institution that was participating in the TAG program as of October 1, 2009 was permitted to continue in the TAGP during the extension period that ends on June 30, 2010. The annual
assessment rate that applies to participating institutions during the extension period is either 15 basis points, 20 basis points or 25 basis points, depending on the "Risk Category" assigned to the
institution under the FDIC's risk-based premium system. Any institution participating in the TAG program as of October 1, 2009 that desired to opt out of the TAG extension was
required to submit its opt-out election to the FDIC on or before November 2, 2009. Any such election to opt out was effective on January 1, 2010. Neither Comerica Bank nor
Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association elected to opt out of the TAGP's extension period, so they will continue to participate in the TAGP through June 30, 2010.

For
additional details about the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, see (i) pages 35 and 36 under the caption "Deposits and Borrowed Funds" and
(ii) Note 14 on pages 114 through 116 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009.









On
May 20, 2009, the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009, which extended the temporary increase in the standard maximum deposit insurance amount provided by the FDIC to
$250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2013, was signed into law. This extension of the temporary $250,000 coverage limit (pursuant to the EESA) became effective immediately upon the
President's signature. The legislation provides that the standard maximum deposit insurance amount provided by the FDIC will return to $100,000 on January 1, 2014.

On
October 22, 2009, the Federal Reserve issued a comprehensive proposal on incentive compensation policies (the "Incentive Compensation Proposal") intended to ensure that the
incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. This guidance sets expectations for
banking organizations concerning their incentive compensation arrangements and related risk-management, control, and governance processes. The Incentive Compensation Proposal, which covers all
employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon three primary principles: (i) balanced
risk-taking incentives, (ii) compatibility with effective controls and risk management, and (iii) strong corporate governance. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are
identified may be incorporated into the organization's supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. In addition, under the Incentive Compensation
Proposal, the Federal Reserve in appropriate circumstances may take enforcement action against a banking organization.

On
November 12, 2009, the Federal Reserve adopted amendments to its Regulation E, effective July 1, 2010, that will prohibit financial institutions from charging clients
overdraft fees on automated teller machines ("ATM") and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those type of transactions. Pursuant to
the adopted regulation, clients must opt-in to an overdraft service in order for the financial institution to collect overdraft fees. If a consumer does not opt in, any ATM transaction or debit that
overdraws the consumer's account will be denied. Overdrafts on the payment of checks and regular electronic bill payments are not covered by this new
rule. Before opting in, the consumer must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution's overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer's choices.
Financial institutions must provide consumers who do not opt in with the same account terms, conditions and features (including pricing) that they provide to consumers who do opt in.

On
January 14, 2010, the current administration announced a proposal to impose a fee (the "Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee") on those financial institutions that benefited
from recent actions











taken
by the U.S. government to stabilize the financial system. If implemented as initially proposed, the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee will be applied to firms with over $50 billion in
consolidated assets, and, therefore, by its terms would apply to Comerica. The Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee would be collected by the Internal Revenue Service and would be approximately fifteen
basis points, or 0.15%, of an amount calculated by subtracting a covered institution's Tier 1 capital and FDIC-assessed deposits (and/or an adjustment for insurance liabilities covered by state
guarantee funds) from such institution's total assets.

The
Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, if implemented as proposed by the current administration, would go into effect on June 30, 2010 and remain in place for at least
ten years. The U.S. Treasury would be asked to report after five years on the effectiveness of the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee as well as its progress in repaying projected
losses to the U.S. government as a result of the TARP. If losses to the U.S. government as a result of TARP have not been recouped after ten years, the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee would
remain in place until such losses have been recovered.

Future Legislation

Changes to the laws of the states and countries in which Comerica and its subsidiaries do business could affect the operating
environment of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. Moreover, in light of recent events and current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and
economy, Congress and regulators have continued to increase their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Comerica cannot accurately predict whether legislative changes will occur
or, if they occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or results of operations of Comerica.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2009, Comerica and its subsidiaries had 8,939 full-time and 781 part-time employees.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Comerica maintains an Internet website at www.comerica.com where the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports
are filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of
Directors and the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics adopted by Comerica are also available on the Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests
should be made in writing to the Corporate Secretary at Comerica Incorporated, Comerica Bank Tower, 1717 Main Street, MC 6404, Dallas, Texas 75201.

