Item 1. Business.

GENERAL

Comerica Incorporated (“Comerica”) is a financial services company, incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, and headquartered in Dallas, Texas. As of December 31, 2012, it was among the 25 largest commercial bank holding companies in the United States (“U.S.”), based on total assets. Comerica was formed in 1973 to acquire the outstanding common stock of Comerica Bank, which at such time was a Michigan banking corporation and one of Michigan's oldest banks (formerly Comerica Bank-Detroit). On October 31, 2007, Comerica Bank, a Michigan banking corporation, was merged with and into Comerica Bank, a Texas banking association (“Comerica Bank”). As of December 31, 2012, Comerica owned directly or indirectly all the outstanding common stock of2active banking and49non-banking subsidiaries. At December 31, 2012, Comerica had total assets of approximately$65.4 billion, total deposits of approximately$52.2 billion, total loans (net of unearned income) of approximately$46.1 billionand shareholders’ equity of approximately$6.9 billion.

Acquisition of Sterling Bancshares, Inc.

On July 28, 2011, Comerica acquired all the outstanding common stock of Sterling Bancshares, Inc. ("Sterling"), a bank holding company headquartered in Houston, Texas, in a stock-for-stock transaction. Sterling common shareholders and holders of outstanding Sterling phantom stock units received 0.2365 shares of Comerica's common stock in exchange for each share of Sterling common stock or phantom stock unit. As a result, Comerica issued approximately 24 million common shares with an acquisition date fair value of $793 million, based on Comerica's closing stock price of $32.67 on July 27, 2011. Based on the merger agreement, outstanding and unexercised options to purchase Sterling common stock were converted into fully vested options to purchase common stock of Comerica. In addition, outstanding warrants to purchase Sterling common stock were converted into warrants to purchase common stock of Comerica. Including an insignificant amount of cash paid in lieu of fractional shares, the fair value of total consideration paid was $803 million. The acquisition of Sterling significantly expanded Comerica's presence in Texas, particularly in the Houston and San Antonio areas.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth Management. In addition to the three major business segments, Finance is also reported as a segment.

The Business Bank meets the needs of middle market businesses, multinational corporations and governmental entities by offering various products and services, including commercial loans and lines of credit, deposits, cash management, capital market products, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange management services and loan syndication services.

The Retail Bank includes small business banking and personal financial services, consisting of consumer lending, consumer deposit gathering and mortgage loan origination. In addition to a full range of financial services provided to small business customers, this business segment offers a variety of consumer products, including deposit accounts, installment loans, credit cards, student loans, home equity lines of credit and residential mortgage loans.

Wealth Management offers products and services consisting of fiduciary services, private banking, retirement services, investment management and advisory services, investment banking and brokerage services. This business segment also offers the sale of annuity products, as well as life, disability and long-term care insurance products.

Finance includes Comerica's securities portfolio and asset and liability management activities. This segment is responsible for managing Comerica's funding, liquidity and capital needs, performing interest sensitivity analysis and executing various strategies to manage Comerica's exposure to liquidity, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.

Comerica operates in three primary geographic markets:  Texas, California and Michigan, as well as in the states of Arizona and Florida, with select businesses operating in several other states, and in Canada and Mexico.

The Texas market consists of operations located in the state of Texas.

The California market consists of the states of California, Colorado and Washington and also consisted of the state of Nevada through the first quarter of 2012. California operations represent the significant majority of this geographic market.

The Michigan market consists of operations located in the states of Michigan and Illinois. Michigan operations represent the significant majority of this geographic market.

Other Markets include Florida, Arizona, the International Finance division, businesses with a national perspective, Comerica's investment management and trust alliance businesses as well as activities in all other markets in which Comerica has operations.









We provide financial information for our segments and information about our non-U.S. revenues and long-lived assets: (1) under the caption, “Strategic Lines of Business” on pages F-13 through F-16 of the Financial Section of this report; and (2) in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on pages F-108 through F-112 of the Financial Section of this report.

We provide information about the net interest income and noninterest income we received from our various classes of products and services: (1) under the caption, “Analysis of Net Interest Income-Fully Taxable Equivalent (FTE)” on page F-6 of the Financial Section of this report; (2) under the caption “Net Interest Income” on pages F-7 through F-8 of the Financial Section of this report; and (3) under the caption “Noninterest Income” on pages F-9 through F-10 of the Financial Section of this report.

We provide information on risks attendant to foreign operations: (1) under the caption “Concentration of Credit Risk” on page F-31 of the Financial Section of this report; and (2) under the caption "International Exposure" on page F-35 of the Financial Section of this report.

COMPETITION

The financial services business is highly competitive. Comerica and its subsidiaries mainly compete in their three primary geographic markets of Texas, California and Michigan, as well as in the states of Arizona and Florida.  They also compete in broader, national geographic markets, as well as markets in Mexico and Canada.   They are subject to competition with respect to various products and services, including, without limitation, loans and lines of credit, deposits, cash management, capital market products, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange management services, loan syndication services, fiduciary services, private banking, retirement services, investment management and advisory services, investment banking services, brokerage services, the sale of annuity products, and the sale of life, disability and long-term care insurance products.

Comerica believes that the level of competition in all geographic markets will continue to increase in the future.  In addition to banks, Comerica's banking subsidiaries also face competition from other financial intermediaries, including savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, leasing companies, venture capital funds, credit unions, investment banks, insurance companies and securities firms. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to many of the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. In addition, the industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

Comerica Bank is chartered by the State of Texas and at the state level is supervised and regulated by the Texas Department of Banking under the Texas Finance Code. Comerica Bank has elected to be a member of the Federal Reserve System (“FRS”) under the Federal Reserve Act and, consequently, is supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association is chartered under federal law and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) under the National Bank Act. Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, by virtue of being a national bank, is also a member of the FRS. The deposits of Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the extent provided by law.

The FRB supervises non-banking activities conducted by companies directly and indirectly owned by Comerica. In addition, Comerica's non-banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory









agencies, including, but not limited to, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc.), the Office of Financial and Insurance Regulation of the State of Michigan (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.), and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc., World Asset Management, Inc. and Wilson, Kemp & Associates, Inc.).

Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Comerica and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business of Comerica and its subsidiaries.

Requirements for Approval of Acquisitions and Activities

In most cases, no FRB approval is required for Comerica to acquire a company engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. However, Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions of other depository institutions or bank holding companies. Prior approval is required before Comerica may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company (including a financial holding company) or a bank.

Community Reinvestment Act

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”) requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities. Comerica Bank's current rating under the “CRA” is “outstanding”. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to receive a rating under the CRA of less than “satisfactory”, Comerica would be prohibited from engaging in certain activities. In addition, Comerica, Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, are each “well capitalized” and “well managed” under FRB standards. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to cease being “well capitalized” or “well managed” under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB could place limitations on Comerica's ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or impose limitations or conditions on the conduct or activities of Comerica or its affiliates. If the deficiencies persisted, the FRB could order Comerica to divest any subsidiary bank or to cease engaging in any activities permissible for financial holding companies that are not permissible for bank holding companies, or Comerica could elect to conform its non-banking activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company.  Finally, the effectiveness of Comerica and its subsidiaries in complying with anti-money laundering regulations (discussed below) is also taken into account by the FRB when considering applications for approval of acquisitions.

Transactions with Affiliates

Privacy

The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including Comerica, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes.









Anti-Money Laundering Regulations

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act (“USA PATRIOT Act”) of 2001 and its implementing regulations substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by requiring insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants. To comply with these obligations, Comerica and its various operating units have implemented appropriate internal practices, procedures, and controls.

Interstate Banking and Branching

Comerica has consolidated most of its banking business into one bank, Comerica Bank, with branches in Texas, Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan.

Dividends

Comerica is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Most of Comerica's revenues result from dividends its bank subsidiaries pay it. There are statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to Comerica, as well as by Comerica to its shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements are discussed below.

Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are required by federal law to obtain the prior approval of the FRB and/or the OCC, as the case may be, for the declaration and payment of dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (i) such bank's retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or to fund the retirement of preferred stock. At January 1, 2013, Comerica's subsidiary banks could declare aggregate dividends of approximately $277 million from retained net profits of the preceding two years. Comerica's subsidiary banks declared dividends of $497 million in 2012, $292 million in 2011 and $28 million in 2010.

Further, federal regulatory agencies can prohibit a banking institution or bank holding company from engaging in unsafe and unsound banking practices and could prohibit the payment of dividends under circumstances in which such payment could be deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”), “prompt corrective action” regime discussed below, Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are specifically prohibited from paying dividends if payment would result in the bank becoming “undercapitalized.” In addition, Comerica Bank is also subject to limitations under Texas state law regarding the amount of earnings that may be paid out as dividends, and requiring prior approval for payments of dividends that exceed certain levels.

Additionally, the payment of dividends is subject to approval by the FRB pursuant to the Capital Plan Review program.  For more information, please see “Other Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments” in this section.

Source of Strength and Cross-Guarantee Requirements

Federal law and FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company









may not be able to provide such support without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC (either as a result of the failure of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of failure), the other banking subsidiaries may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to certain exceptions.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act

FDICIA requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution's capital tier will depend upon where its capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, which, among others, include a Tier 1 and total risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure.

Regulations establishing the specific capital tiers provide that, for a depository institution to be well capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to any specific capital order or directive. For an institution to be adequately capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4% (and in some cases 3%). Under certain circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution as if the institution were in the next lower capital category.

As of December 31, 2012, Comerica and its banking subsidiaries exceeded the ratios required for an institution to be considered “well capitalized” under these regulations.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to limitations on growth and certain activities and are required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution's capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the institution's parent holding company must guarantee for a specific time period that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the depository institution's total assets at the time it became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit or implement an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to a number of requirements and restrictions. Specifically, such a depository institution may be required to do one or more of the following, among other things: sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, reduce the interest rates it pays on deposits, reduce its rate of asset growth, dismiss certain senior executive officers or directors, or stop accepting deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator or such other action as the FDIC and the applicable federal banking agency shall determine appropriate.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions any such agency supervises. The standards relate generally to, among others, earnings, liquidity, operations and management, asset quality, various risk and management exposures (e.g., credit, operational, market, interest rate, etc.) and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the operations of depository institutions including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate lending, “truth in savings” provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch, and a prohibition on the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC.

Capital Requirements

Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB and/or the OCC.

For this purpose, a depository institution's or holding company's assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments are assigned to four risk categories, each weighted differently based on the level of credit risk that is ascribed to such assets or commitments. A depository institution's or holding company's capital, in turn, is divided into two tiers: core (“Tier 1”) capital, which includes common equity, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus (excluding auction rate issues) and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated









subsidiaries, less goodwill, certain identifiable intangible assets and certain other assets; and supplementary (“Tier 2”) capital, which includes, among other items, perpetual preferred stock not meeting the Tier 1 definition, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt, and allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations, less certain required deductions. Bank holding companies that engage in trading activities, whose trading activities exceed specified levels, also are required to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign exchange, and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such as changes in the general level of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices) or from position specific factors.

Comerica, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain Tier 1 and “total capital” (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 4% and 8% of its total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit), respectively. At December 31, 2012, Comerica met both requirements, with Tier 1 and total capital equal to10.13%and13.14%of its total risk-weighted assets, respectively.

Comerica is also required to maintain a minimum “leverage ratio” (Tier 1 capital to non-risk-adjusted total assets) of 3% to 4%, depending upon criteria defined and assessed by the FRB. Comerica's leverage ratio of10.52%at December 31, 2012 reflects the nature of Comerica's balance sheet and demonstrates a commitment to capital adequacy.  At December 31, 2012, Comerica Bank had Tier 1 and total capital equal to10.15%and12.99%of its total risk-weighted assets, respectively, and a leverage ratio of10.55%.  Additional information on the calculation of Comerica and its bank subsidiaries' Tier 1 Capital, total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on page F-107 of the Financial Section of this report.

FDIC Insurance Assessments

Comerica's subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF.  The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, which was amended pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and further amended by the Financial Reform Act.  Due to the passage of the Financial Reform Act, the FDIC was required to redefine the deposit insurance assessment base from domestic deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity and make changes to assessment rate methodology. The FDIC adopted a final rule on February 7, 2011 that revised the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions. The first assessment under the new rule was paid in the third quarter of 2011.

In November 2009, the FDIC required insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010 through 2012. The prepaid assessments are applied against future quarterly assessments (as they may be so revised) until the prepaid assessment is exhausted or the balance of the prepayment is returned, whichever occurs first. Comerica paid such prepaid assessment of $200 million on December 30, 2009. For 2012, FDIC insurance assessments totaled $38 million. The remaining prepayment at December 31, 2012 was $81 million, against which 2013 DIF assessments will be applied.

Enforcement Powers of Federal Banking Agencies

The FRB and other federal banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers and directors of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil and criminal penalties.

Capital Purchase Program

On November 14, 2008, Comerica entered the Capital Purchase Program by issuing to the United States Department of the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”), in exchange for aggregate consideration of $2.25 billion, (1) 2.25 million shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F, no par value (the “Series F Preferred Stock”), and (2) a warrant to purchase 11,479,592 shares of Comerica's common stock at an exercise price of $29.40 per share (the “Warrant”). Both the Series F Preferred Stock and the Warrant were accounted for as components of Comerica's regulatory Tier 1 capital and contained terms and limitations imposed by the U.S. Treasury. On March 17, 2010, Comerica fully redeemed the Series F Preferred Stock previously issued to the U.S. Treasury, and Comerica exited the Capital Purchase Program.  The Warrant was separated into 11,479,592 warrants to purchase one share of Comerica's common stock at an exercise price of $29.40 per share, and such warrants are now listed and traded on the NYSE. As a result of participating in the Capital Purchase Program, Comerica was subject to certain executive compensation and corporate governance standards promulgated by the U.S. Treasury prior to redemption, which no longer applied to Comerica following the redemption.

For additional details about the Capital Purchase Program, please refer to Note 13 on pages F-94 through F-95 of the Financial Section of this report.









Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program

Among other programs and actions taken by the U.S. regulatory agencies during the financial crisis, the FDIC implemented in 2008 the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system. The TLGP was comprised of the Debt Guarantee Program (“DGP”) and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”). The DGP temporarily guaranteed all newly issued senior unsecured debt (e.g., promissory notes, unsubordinated unsecured notes and commercial paper) up to prescribed limits issued by participating entities beginning on October 14, 2008 and continuing through October 31, 2009. For eligible debt issued by that date, the FDIC provided the guarantee coverage until the earlier of the maturity date of the debt or December 31, 2012 (or June 30, 2012 for debt issued prior to April 1, 2009). The TAGP offered a temporary full guarantee for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts held at participating FDIC-insured depository institutions. The unlimited deposit coverage was available beginning October 14, 2008, and was in addition to the $250,000 FDIC deposit insurance coverage per account that was included as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. Participation in both the DGP and the TAGP was voluntary.

Comerica, Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, participated in the TLGP.  As of December 31, 2012, Comerica had no senior unsecured debt outstanding under the DGP.  Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association voluntarily participated in the TAGP from October 2008, until they opted out effective July 1, 2010. The TAGP expired as of December 31, 2010.  For further discussion of the Financial Reform Act, refer to “The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” section below in this “Supervisory and Regulation” section.

For additional details about the TGLP, see pages F-20 and F-21 of the Financial Section of this report under the caption “Deposits and Borrowed Funds.”

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act

The recent financial crisis has led to significant changes in the competitive landscape of the financial services industry and an overhaul of the legislative and regulatory landscape with the passage of the Financial Reform Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Financial Reform Act provides for, among other matters, increased regulatory supervision and examination of financial institutions, the imposition of more stringent capital requirements on financial institutions and increased regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions. Provided below is an overview of key elements of the Financial Reform Act relevant to Comerica. Most of the provisions contained in the Financial Reform Act became effective immediately upon enactment; however, many have delayed effective dates. Implementation of the Financial Reform Act will require many new mandatory and discretionary rules to be made by federal regulatory agencies over the next several years. The estimates of the impact on Comerica discussed below are based on the limited information currently available and, given the uncertainty of the timing and scope of the impact, are subject to change until final rulemaking is complete.

•The Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”): Will coordinate efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns and will make recommendations to the FRB as to enhanced prudential standards that must apply to large, interconnected bank holding companies and nonbank financial companies supervised by the FRB under the Financial Reform Act, including capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements. As a bank holding company with total consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion, Comerica will be subject to these enhanced prudential requirements.

•The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB“): Granted broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Possesses examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets.

•Interest on Commercial Demand Deposits: Allows interest on commercial demand deposits, which could lead to increased cost of commercial demand deposits, depending on the interplay of interest, deposit credits and service charges.

•Unlimited Deposit Insurance Extension: Provided unlimited deposit insurance on noninterest-bearing accounts from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2012.

•Deposit Insurance: Changed the definition of assessment base from domestic deposits to net assets (average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity), increased the deposit insurance fund's minimum reserve ratio and permanently increased general deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000.

•Derivatives: Created a new framework for the regulation of OTC derivatives activities. Allows continued trading of foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives, but requires banks to shift energy, uncleared commodities and agriculture derivatives to a separately capitalized subsidiary within their holding company.

•Interchange Fee: Limits debit card transaction processing fees that card issuers can charge to merchants to an amount reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer.









•Trust Preferred Securities: Prohibits bank holding companies with more than $15 billion in assets from including trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital, and allows for a phase-in period of three years, beginning January 1, 2013.  As of December 31, 2012, Comerica had no remaining trust preferred securities outstanding.

•The Volcker Rule: Broadly restricts banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading and private equity fund sponsorship and investment activities and generally requires full compliance with the new restrictions by July 2014.

The Financial Reform Act also:

•Requires that publicly traded companies give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and “golden parachute” payments;

•Weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws;

•Requires creation of “living wills” describing the company's strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy during times of financial distress.  Comerica's initial resolution plan (living will) must be submitted no later than December 31, 2013; and

•Establishes the Office of Financial Research (“OFR”) to serve the FSOC and the public by improving the quality, transparency, and accessibility of financial data and information, by conducting and sponsoring research related to financial stability, and by promoting best practices in risk management.

The environment in which financial institutions will operate after the recent financial crisis, including legislative and regulatory changes affecting capital, liquidity, supervision, permissible activities, corporate governance and compensation, and changes in fiscal policy may have long-term effects on the business model and profitability of financial institutions that cannot now be foreseen. The Financial Reform Act will have important implications for Comerica and the entire financial services industry. As the Financial Reform Act requires that many studies be conducted and that hundreds of regulations be written in order to fully implement it, the full impact of this legislation on Comerica, its business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for a number of years.

Other Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments

Overdraft Fees. On November 12, 2009, the FRB adopted amendments to its Regulation E, effective July 1, 2010, that prohibit financial institutions from charging clients overdraft fees on automated teller machine (“ATM”) and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions. If a consumer does not opt in, overdraft fees on any ATM transaction or one-time debit transaction are prohibited. Overdrafts on the payment of checks and recurring electronic bill payments are not covered by this rule. Before opting in, the consumer must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution's overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer's choices. Financial institutions must provide consumers who do not opt in with the same account terms, conditions and features (including pricing) that they provide to consumers who do opt in.

Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee.  On January 14, 2010, the current administration announced a proposal to impose a fee (the “Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee”) on those financial institutions that benefited from recent actions taken by the U.S. government to stabilize the financial system. Calls for that fee have been renewed during the 2013 federal budget discussions.  As the proposal is understood, the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee will be applied to firms with over $50 billion in consolidated assets, and, therefore, by its terms would apply to Comerica. The Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee was not included in the Financial Reform Act.

Incentive-Based Compensation

On April 14, 2011, the FRB, OCC and several other federal financial regulators issued a joint proposed rulemaking to implement Section 956 of the Financial Reform Act. Section 956 directed regulators to jointly prescribe regulations or guidelines









prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements, or any feature of any such arrangement, at covered financial institutions that encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation or that could lead to a material financial loss.  This proposal supplements the final guidance issued by the banking agencies in June 2010. Consistent with the Financial Reform Act, the proposed rule would not apply to institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $1 billion, and would impose heightened standards for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, which includes Comerica. For these larger institutions, the proposed rule would require that at least 50 percent of annual incentive-based payments be deferred over a period of at least three years for designated executives. Moreover, boards of directors of these larger institutions would be required to identify employees who individually have the ability to expose the institution to possible losses that are substantial in relation to the institution's size, capital or overall risk tolerance, and to determine that the incentive compensation for these employees appropriately balances risk and rewards according to enumerated standards.  Comerica is monitoring the development of this rule.

Basel III: Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Regime.  In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) issued a framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation (“Basel III”).  In June 2012, U.S. banking regulators issued proposed rules for the U.S. adoption of the Basel III regulatory capital framework.  The proposed regulatory framework includes a more conservative definition of capital, two new capital buffers (a conservation buffer and a countercyclical buffer), new and more stringent risk weight categories for assets and off-balance sheet items, and a supplemental leverage ratio. Under the proposal, rules were expected to be implemented between 2013 and 2019.

According to the proposed rules, Comerica would be subject to the capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses.  However, the rules as proposed would not subject Comerica to the capital countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5 percent or the supplemental leverage ratio.

The Basel III liquidity framework, which was revised by the Basel Committee in January 2013, includes two minimum liquidity measures. The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (the “LCR”) requires a financial institution to hold a buffer of high-quality, liquid assets to fully cover net cash outflows under a 30-day systematic liquidity stress scenario. The revisions announced by the Basel Committee eased several requirements related to the LCR, including certain outflow assumptions. The Net Stable Funding Ratio requires the amount of available longer-term, stable sources of funding to be at least 100 percent of the required amount of longer-term stable funding over a one-year period. Comerica's liquidity position is strong, but if subject to the Basel III liquidity framework as currently proposed, Comerica may decide to consider additional liquidity management initiatives. While uncertainty exists in both the final form of the U.S. rules implementing the Basel III liquidity framework and whether or not Comerica will be subject to the full requirements, Comerica is closely monitoring the development of the rules. We expect to meet the final requirements adopted by U.S. banking regulators within regulatory timelines.

Interchange Fees.  On July 20, 2011, the FRB published final rules pursuant to the Financial Reform Act establishing the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction as the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. The restrictions on interchange transaction fees do not apply to issuers with assets of less than $10 billion.  Comerica is subject to the final rules.

The Volcker Rule

. The federal banking agencies and the SEC published proposed regulations to implement the Volcker Rule on November 7, 2011. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) requested comments on a very similar rule on January 11, 2012.  The proposal adopts a multi-faceted approach to implementing the Volcker Rule prohibitions that relies on: (i) detailed descriptions of prohibited and permitted activities; (ii) detailed compliance requirements; and (iii) for banking entities with large volumes of trading activity, detailed quantitative analysis and reporting obligations. In addition to rules implementing the core prohibitions and exemptions of the Volcker Rule, the proposal also includes three appendices devoted to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, including numerous quantitative data reporting obligations for banking entities with significant trading activities (Appendix A), detailed guidance regarding trading undertaken in connection with market making activities (Appendix B), and enhanced compliance requirements for banking entities with significant trading or covered fund activities (Appendix C).  Pending issuance of the final rules, the FRB issued a policy statement on April 19, 2012, indicating that entities subject to the new rules would be afforded a full two years to implement them.  Comerica is closely monitoring the development of the Volcker Rule, and expects to meet the final requirements adopted by regulators within regulatory timelines.

Annual Capital Plans. On November 22, 2011, the FRB issued a final rule requiring top-tier U.S. bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit annual capital plans for review, and issued instructions regarding stress testing as part of the 2012 Capital Plan Review program.  Under the rule, the FRB will annually evaluate institutions' capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy assessment processes, and their plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or stock repurchases.  As required, Comerica submitted its 2012 capital plan to the FRB on January 9, 2012; on March 14, 2012, Comerica announced that the FRB had completed its 2012 capital plan review and did not object to the 2012 capital plan or capital distributions contemplated in such plan.  Also as required, Comerica submitted its 2013 capital plan to the FRB on January 7, 2013 and expects to receive the results of the FRB's review of the 2013 plan by mid-March 2013.  Comerica is currently subject to the Capital Plan Review (CapPR) program but will be subject to the Comprehensive Capital Assessment and Review (CCAR) program after October 12, 2013.









Enhanced Prudential Requirements. On December 20, 2011, the FRB issued its proposed regulations to implement the enhanced prudential and supervisory requirements mandated by the Financial Reform Act. The proposed regulations address enhanced risk-based capital and leverage requirements, enhanced liquidity requirements, enhanced risk management and risk committee requirements, single-counterparty credit limits, semiannual stress tests, and a debt-to-equity limit for companies determined to pose a grave threat to financial stability. They are intended to allow regulators to more effectively supervise large bank holding companies and nonbank financial firms whose failure could impact the stability of the US financial system, and generally build on existing US and international regulatory guidance.  The proposal also takes a multi-stage or phased approach to many of the requirements (such as the capital and liquidity requirements). Most of these requirements will apply to Comerica because it has consolidated assets of more than $50 billion. However, the proposal defers several key aspects of the new enhanced requirements to future proposals. As a result, the full impact of these enhanced standards on Comerica and its competitors cannot yet be fully assessed.

OFR Assessments.  On May 21, 2012, the Department of the Treasury published final regulations to implement, beginning July 20, 2012, a semi-annual assessment scheme for covering expenses of the OFR based on the asset size of each assessed company as of the end of the preceding year.

Resolution (Living Will) Plans.  Section 165(d) of the Financial Reform Act requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more (“covered companies”) to prepare and submit to the federal banking agencies (e.g., FRB and FDIC) a plan for their rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  Covered companies, such as Comerica, with less than $100 billion in total nonbank assets must submit their initial plans by December 31, 2013.  In addition, Section 165(d) requires FDIC-insured depository institutions with assets of $50 billion or more to develop, maintain, and periodically submit plans outlining how the FDIC would resolve it through the FDIC's resolution powers under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.  The federal banking agencies have issued rules to implement these requirements.

Section 611 and Title VII of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.  Section 611 of the Financial Reform Act prohibits a state bank from engaging in derivative transactions unless the lending limit laws of the state in which the bank is chartered takes into consideration exposure to derivatives.  Section 611 does not provide how state lending limit laws must factor in derivatives.  The Texas Finance Commission has adopted an administrative rule meeting the requirements of Section 611.  Accordingly, Comerica Bank may engage in derivative transactions, as permitted by applicable law.

Title VII of the Financial Reform Act establishes a comprehensive framework for over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives transactions.  The structure for derivatives set forth in the Financial Reform Act is intended to promote, among other things, exchange trading and centralized clearing of swaps and security-based swaps, as well as greater transparency in the derivatives markets and enhanced monitoring of the entities that use these markets.  In this regard, the CFTC and SEC have issued several regulatory proposals, some of which are now effective or will become effective in 2013.

The SEC and CFTC have jointly adopted rules further defining the terms “swap,” “security-based swap,” “security-based swap agreement,” and have also adopted final joint rules defining the terms “swap dealer,” “security-based swap dealer,” “major swap participant,” and “major security-based swap participant.”  Comerica has determined that neither it, nor its subsidiaries, are within the definition of “swap dealer” or “major swap participant,” but some portions of the Title VII regulations apply nonetheless.  One of these regulations centers on limiting certain OTC transactions to “eligible contract participants.”  This may have an impact on the small business customers of Comerica's banking subsidiaries by making such customers ineligible for swap derivatives as hedging in their loan agreements.

Consumer Finance Regulations.  The CFPB has commenced issuing several new rules to implement various provisions of the Financial Reform Act that were specifically identified as being enforced by the CFPB, as well as those specified for supervisory and enforcement authority for very large depository institutions and non-depository (nonbank) entities.  Comerica is subject to CFPB foreign remittance rules and home mortgage lending rules, in addition to certain other CFPB rules.

The foreign remittance rules fall under Section 1073 of the Financial Reform Act.  The CFPB has issued new rules making changes to Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act.  These rules are designed to provide protections to consumers who transfer funds to recipients located in another country (remittance transfers).  In general, the rule requires remittance transfer providers, such as Comerica, to disclose to a consumer the exchange rate, fees, and amount to be received by the recipient when the consumer sends a remittance transfer.  The effective date of the final rule has been extended and will go into effect on a date yet to be determined.

On January 10, 2013, the CFPB issued three major rules relating to home mortgage loans.  The first rule amends Regulation Z to implement amendments made by Sections 1461 and 1462 of the Financial Reform Act.  Regulation Z currently requires creditors to establish escrow accounts for higher priced mortgage loans secured by a first lien on a principal dwelling.  The rule implements statutory changes that lengthen the period of time for which the mandatory escrow must be maintained and exempts certain transactions from the requirement.  The stated effective date of the rule is June 1, 2013.









The second rule expands the universe of loans subject to the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act (“HOEPA”).  Most types of loans secured a consumer's principal dwelling, including purchase money loans and home equity lines of credit, are potentially subject to the rule.   The existing triggers or tests for coverage are revised, and a new prepayment penalty trigger for HOEPA coverage is added.  The rule also implements new restrictions and requirements concerning loan terms and origination practices for mortgage loans that are within HOEPA's coverage.  The stated effective date is January 10, 2014.

The third rule issued on January 10, 2013 is another amendment to Regulation Z.  This rule implements Sections 1411 and 1412 of the Financial Reform Act, which generally require creditors to make a reasonable, good faith determination of a consumer's ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling (excluding an open-end credit plan, timeshare plan, reverse mortgage, or temporary loan) and establishes certain protections from liability under this requirement for “qualified mortgages.”  The rule also implements Section 1414 of the Financial Reform Act, which limits prepayment penalties.  Finally, the rule requires creditors to retain evidence of compliance with the rule for three years after a covered loan is consummated.  The stated effective date is January 10, 2014.

Future Legislation and Regulatory Measures

Changes to the laws of the states and countries in which Comerica and its subsidiaries do business could affect the operating environment of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. Moreover, in light of recent events and current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have continued to increase their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Comerica cannot accurately predict whether legislative changes will occur or, if they occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or results of operations of Comerica.

UNDERWRITING APPROACH

The loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, so proper loan underwriting is critical to Comerica's long-term financial success. Comerica extends credit to businesses, individuals and public entities based on sound lending principles and consistent with prudent banking practice. During the loan underwriting process, a qualitative and quantitative analysis of potential credit facilities is performed, and the credit risks associated with each relationship are evaluated. Important factors considered as part of the underwriting process for new loans and loan renewals include:

•People: Including the competence, integrity and succession planning of customers;

•Purpose: The legal, logical and productive purposes of the credit facility;

•Payment: Including the source, timing and probability of payment;

•Protection: Including obtaining alternative sources of repayment, securing the loan, as appropriate, with collateral and/or third-party guarantees and ensuring appropriate legal documentation is obtained.

•Perspective: The risk/reward relationship and pricing elements (cost of funds; servicing costs; time value of money; credit risk).

Comerica prices credit facilities to reflect risk, the related costs and the expected return, while maintaining competitiveness with other financial institutions. Loans with variable and fixed rates are underwritten to achieve expected risk-adjusted returns on the credit facilities and for the full relationship including the borrower's ability to repay the principal and interest based on such rates.

Credit Administration

Comerica maintains a Credit Administration Department (“Credit Administration”) which is responsible for the oversight and monitoring of our loan portfolio. Credit Administration assists with underwriting by providing objective financial analysis, including an assessment of the borrower's business model, balance sheet, cash flow and collateral. Each borrower relationship is assigned an internal risk rating by Credit Administration. Further, Credit Administration updates the assigned internal risk rating for every borrower relationship as new information becomes available, either as a result of periodic reviews of the credit quality or as a result of a change in borrower performance. The goal of the internal risk rating framework is to improve Comerica's risk management capability, including its ability to identify and manage changes in the credit risk profile of its portfolio, predict future losses and price the loans appropriately for risk.

Credit Policy

Comerica maintains a comprehensive set of credit policies. Comerica's credit policies provide individual relationship managers, as well as loan committees, approval authorities based on our internal risk rating system and establish maximum exposure limits based on risk ratings and Comerica's legal lending limit. Credit Administration, in conjunction with the businesses units, monitors compliance with the credit policies and modifies the existing policies as necessary. New or modified policies/guidelines









require approval by the Strategic Credit Committee, chaired by Comerica's Chief Credit Officer and comprising senior credit, market and risk management executives.

Commercial Loan Portfolio

Commercial loans are underwritten using a comprehensive analysis of the borrower's operations. The underwriting process includes an analysis of some or all of the factors listed below:

•The borrower's business model.

•Periodic review of financial statements including financial statements audited by an independent certified public accountant when appropriate.

•The pro-forma financial condition including financial projections.

•The borrower's sources and uses of funds.

•The borrower's debt service capacity.

•The guarantor's financial strength.

•A comprehensive review of the quality and value of collateral, including independent third-party appraisals of machinery and equipment and commercial real estate, as appropriate, to determine the advance rates.

•Physical inspection of collateral and audits of receivables, as appropriate.

Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Loan Portfolio

Comerica's CRE loan portfolio consists of real estate construction and commercial mortgage loans and includes both loans to real estate investors and developers, and loans secured by owner-occupied real estate. Comerica's CRE loan underwriting policies are consistent with the approach described above and provide maximum loan-to-value ratios that limit the size of a loan to a maximum percentage of the value of the real estate collateral securing the loan. The loan-to-value percentage varies by the type of collateral and is limited by advance rates established by our regulators. Our loan-to-value limitations are, in certain cases, more restrictive than those required by regulators and are influenced by other risk factors such as the financial strength of the borrower or guarantor, the equity provided to the project and the viability of the project itself. CRE loans generally require cash equity. CRE loans are normally originated with full recourse or limited recourse to all principals and owners. There are limitations to the size of a single project loan and to the aggregate dollar exposure to a single guarantor.

Consumer and Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolios

Comerica's consumer and residential mortgage loans are originated consistent with the underwriting approach described above, but also includes an assessment of each borrower's personal financial condition, including a review of credit reports and related FICO scores (a type of credit score used to assess an applicant's credit risk) and verification of income and assets. Comerica does not originate subprime loan programs. Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, Comerica defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors. These credit factors include low FICO scores, poor patterns of payment history, high debt-to-income ratios and elevated loan-to-value. We generally consider subprime FICO scores to be those below 620 on a secured basis (excluding loans with cash or near-cash collateral and adequate income to make payments) and below 660 for unsecured loans. Residential mortgage loans retained in the portfolio are largely relationship based.  The remaining loans are typically eligible to be sold on the secondary market.  Adjustable rate loans are limited to standard conventional loan programs.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2012, Comerica and its subsidiaries had8,628full-time and678part-time employees.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Comerica maintains an Internet website at www.comerica.com where the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics adopted by Comerica are also available on the Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be made in writing to the Corporate Secretary at Comerica Incorporated, Comerica Bank Tower, 1717 Main Street, MC 6404, Dallas, Texas 75201.











