Item 1.  Business.

GENERAL

Comerica Incorporated (“Comerica”) is a financial services company, incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, and
headquartered in Dallas, Texas. As of December 31, 2010, it was among the 25 largest commercial bank holding companies in the United States. Comerica was formed in 1973 to acquire the outstanding common stock of Comerica Bank, which at such
time was a Michigan banking corporation and one of Michigan’s oldest banks (formerly Comerica Bank-Detroit). On October 31, 2007, Comerica Bank, a Michigan banking corporation, was merged with and into Comerica Bank, a Texas banking
association (“Comerica Bank”). As of December 31, 2010, Comerica owned directly or indirectly all the outstanding common stock of 2 active banking and 48 non-banking subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010, Comerica had total assets
of approximately $53.7 billion, total deposits of approximately $40.5 billion, total loans (net of unearned income) of approximately $40.2 billion and shareholders’ equity of approximately $5.8 billion.

Pending Acquisition

On
January 18, 2011, Comerica announced it had entered into a definitive agreement, dated January 16, 2011, with Sterling Bancshares, Inc. (“Sterling”) pursuant to which Comerica will acquire all of the outstanding shares of
Sterling common stock in a stock-for-stock transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, each outstanding share of Sterling common stock will be exchanged for 0.2365 shares of Comerica’s common stock upon closing. Following closing of the
transaction, Sterling will be a wholly owned subsidiary of Comerica. The transaction is expected to be completed by mid-year 2011 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including the requisite approval of Sterling shareholders and required
regulatory approvals. Sterling is a Houston-based bank holding company with total assets of $5.2 billion at December 31, 2010, which operates banking centers in Houston, San Antonio, Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and
Wealth & Institutional Management. In addition to the three major business segments, the Finance Division is also reported as a segment.

The Business Bank is primarily comprised of the following businesses: middle market, commercial real estate, national dealer services, international finance, global corporate, leasing, financial services,
and technology and life sciences. This business segment meets the needs of medium-size businesses, multinational corporations and governmental entities by offering various products and services, including commercial loans and lines of credit,
deposits, cash management, capital market products, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange management services and loan syndication services.

The Retail Bank includes small business banking and personal financial services, consisting of consumer lending, consumer deposit gathering and mortgage loan origination. In addition to a full range of
financial services provided to small business customers, this business segment offers a variety of consumer products, including deposit accounts, installment loans, credit cards, student loans, home equity lines of credit and residential mortgage
loans.

Wealth & Institutional Management offers products and services consisting of fiduciary services, private
banking, retirement services, investment management and advisory services, investment banking and discount securities brokerage services. This business segment also offers the sale of annuity products, as well as life, disability and long-term care
insurance products.







The Finance segment includes Comerica’s securities portfolio and asset and liability
management activities. This segment is responsible for managing Comerica’s funding, liquidity and capital needs, performing interest sensitivity analysis and executing various strategies to manage Comerica’s exposure to liquidity, interest
rate risk and foreign exchange risk.

The Other category includes discontinued operations, the income and expense impact of
equity and cash, tax benefits not assigned to specific business segments and miscellaneous other expenses of a corporate nature.

In addition, Comerica has positioned itself to deliver financial services in its four primary geographic markets: Midwest, Western, Texas and Florida.

The Midwest market consists of Michigan, Ohio and Illinois. Currently, Michigan operations represent the significant majority of the
Midwest market.

The Western market consists of the states of California, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado and Washington. Currently,
California operations represent the significant majority of the Western market.

The Texas and Florida markets consist of the
states of Texas and Florida, respectively.

In addition to the four primary geographic markets, Comerica also considers Other
Markets and International as market segments. Other Markets include businesses with a national perspective, Comerica’s investment management and trust alliance businesses as well as activities in all other markets in which Comerica has
operations, except for the International market. The International market represents the activities of Comerica’s international finance division, which provides banking services primarily to foreign-owned, North American-based companies and
secondarily to international operations of North American-based companies.

We provide financial information for our segments
and information about our non-U.S. revenues and long-lived assets: (1) under the caption, “Strategic Lines of Business” on pages 26 through 30 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference; and (2) in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on pages 136 through 141 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

We provide information about the net interest
income and noninterest income we received from our various classes of products and services: (1) under the caption, “Analysis of Net Interest Income—Fully Taxable Equivalent (FTE)” on page 17 of Comerica’s Annual Report
to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which page is hereby incorporated by reference; (2) under the caption “Net Interest Income” on pages 18 through 19 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for
the year ended December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference; and (3) under the caption “Noninterest Income” on pages 21 through 22 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.

We provide information on risks attendant to
foreign operations: (1) under the caption, “Provision for Credit Losses” on pages 19 through 21 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by
reference; (2) under the caption “Geographic Market Segments” on page 28 through 30 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference;
(3) under the caption, “International Cross-Border Outstandings” on page 35 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which page is hereby incorporated by reference; and
(4) under the caption “Allowance for Credit Losses” on pages 41 through 42 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference.







COMPETITION

The financial services business is highly competitive. Comerica’s banking subsidiaries compete primarily with banks based in its primary areas of operations in the United States for loans, deposits
and trust accounts. Through its offices in Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, North Carolina, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Washington, Comerica
competes with other financial institutions for various deposits, loans and/or other products and services.

Based on the
Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Interstate Act”) and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act as described below, Comerica believes that the level of competition in all geographic markets will increase in the
future. In addition to banks, Comerica’s banking subsidiaries also face competition from other financial intermediaries, including savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, leasing companies, venture capital funds, credit
unions, investment banks, insurance companies and securities firms. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and
nontraditional alternatives. The industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

Banks, bank holding companies and financial institutions are highly regulated at both the state and federal level. Comerica is subject to supervision and regulation at the federal level by the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.

The
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the activities in which a bank holding company registered as a financial holding company can engage. The conditions to be a financial holding company include, among others, the requirement that each depository
institution subsidiary of the holding company be well capitalized and well managed.

Comerica became a financial holding
company in 2000. As a financial holding company, Comerica may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in activities that are financial in nature. Activities that are “financial in nature” include, but are not
limited to: securities underwriting; securities dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; travel agent services; and activities that the FRB has determined to be
financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial activity, provided that it does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of the depository institution or the financial system generally. A bank holding company that is
not also a financial holding company is limited to engaging in banking and other activities previously determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking.

Comerica Bank is chartered by the State of Texas and at the state level is supervised and regulated by the Texas Department of Banking. Comerica Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System
(“FRS”) and supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association is chartered under federal law and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency (“OCC”). Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association is also a member of the FRS. The deposits of Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the extent provided by law.

The FRB supervises non-banking
activities conducted by companies directly and indirectly owned by Comerica. In addition, Comerica’s non-banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory agencies, including, but not
limited to, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and Comerica Capital Markets Corporation), the Office of







Financial and Insurance Services of the State of Michigan (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.), and the Securities and Exchange Commission
(in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc., Comerica Capital Markets Corporation and World Asset Management, Inc.).

Set forth below are summaries of selected laws and regulations applicable to Comerica and its domestic banks and other subsidiaries. The summaries are not complete, are qualified in their entirety by
references to the particular statutes and regulations, and are not intended as legal advice. A change in applicable law or regulation could have a material effect on the business of Comerica.

Interstate Banking and Branching

The Interstate Banking and Branching
Efficiency Act (the “Interstate Act”), as amended by the Financial Reform Act, permits a bank holding company, with Federal Reserve Board approval, to acquire banking institutions located in states other than the bank holding
company’s home state without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited under state law, but subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the
requirement that the bank holding company, prior to and following the proposed acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of







deposits of insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30% of such deposits in that state (or such amount as established by state law if such amount is lower than 30%).
The Interstate Act, as amended, also authorizes banks to operate branch offices outside their home states by merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in other states and by establishing de novo branches in other states, subject to
various conditions. In the case of purchasing branches in a state in which it does not already have banking operations, the “host” state must have “opted-in” to the Interstate Act by enacting a law permitting such branch
purchases. The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the de novo interstate branching authority of banks beyond what had been permitted under the Interstate Act by eliminating the requirement that a state expressly “opt-in” to de novo branching, in
favor of a rule that de novo interstate branching is permissible if under the law of the state in which the branch is to be located, a state bank chartered by that state would be permitted to establish the branch. Effective July 21, 2011, the
Dodd-Frank Act also requires that a bank holding company or bank be well-capitalized and well-managed (rather than simply adequately capitalized and adequately managed) in order to take advantage of these interstate banking and branching provisions.

As permitted by the Interstate Act, Comerica has consolidated most of its banking business into one bank, Comerica Bank, with
branches in Texas, Michigan, California, Florida and Arizona.

Dividends

Comerica is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Most of Comerica’s revenues result from
dividends its bank subsidiaries pay it. There are statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to Comerica, as well as by Comerica to its shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements
are discussed below.

Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are required by federal law to
obtain the prior approval of the FRB and/or the OCC, as the case may be, for the declaration and payment of dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of
(i) such bank’s retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to
surplus or to fund the retirement of preferred stock. At January 1, 2011, Comerica’s subsidiary banks could declare aggregate dividends of approximately $364 million from retained net profits of the preceding two years. Comerica’s
subsidiary banks declared dividends of $28 million in 2010, $49 million in 2009, and $264 million in 2008 without the need for prior governmental approvals.

Further, federal regulatory agencies can prohibit a banking institution or bank holding company from engaging in unsafe and unsound banking practices and could prohibit the payment of dividends under
circumstances in which such payment could be deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice. In addition, Comerica Bank is also subject to limitations under Texas state law regarding the amount of earnings that may be paid out as dividends, and
requiring prior approval for payments of dividends that exceed certain levels.

Source of Strength

FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to support
each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC (either as a result of the failure of a banking or thrift subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of failure), the
other banking subsidiaries may be assessed for the FDIC’s loss, subject to certain exceptions.







FDICIA

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”) requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of
depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized”
and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier will depend upon where its capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, which, among others, include a Tier 1 and total risk-based
capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure.

Regulations establishing the specific capital tiers provide that, for a
depository institution to be well capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to any specific
capital order or directive. For an institution to be adequately capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4% (and in
some cases 3%). Under certain circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution as if the institution were in the next lower capital category.

As of December 31, 2010, Comerica and its banking subsidiaries exceeded the ratios required for an institution to be considered
“well capitalized” under these regulations.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any
capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to limitations on
growth and certain activities and are required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and
is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the institution’s parent holding company must guarantee for a specific time period that the institution
will comply with such capital restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the depository institution’s total assets at the time it
became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with
the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit or implement an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to a number of requirements and restrictions. Specifically, such a depository institution may be required to do one or more of the
following, among other things: sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, reduce the interest rates it pays on deposits, reduce its rate of asset growth, dismiss certain senior executive officers or directors, or stop accepting
deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator or such other action as the FDIC and the applicable federal banking agency shall determine appropriate.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the operations of depository institutions including
reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate lending, “truth in savings” provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any
branch, and a prohibition on the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC.

Capital Requirements

Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB and/or the OCC.







For this purpose, a depository institution’s or holding company’s assets and
certain specified off-balance sheet commitments are assigned to four risk categories, each weighted differently based on the level of credit risk that is ascribed to such assets or commitments. A depository institution’s or holding
company’s capital, in turn, is divided into two tiers: core (“Tier 1”) capital, which includes common equity, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related
surplus (excluding auction rate issues) and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill, certain identifiable intangible assets and certain other assets; and supplementary (“Tier 2”) capital,
which includes, among other items, perpetual preferred stock not meeting the Tier 1 definition, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt, and allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations, less certain required
deductions. Bank holding companies that engage in trading activities, whose trading activities exceed specified levels, also are required to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the market value of trading account,
foreign exchange, and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such as changes in the general level of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices) or from position specific factors.

Comerica, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain Tier 1 and “total capital” (the
sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 4% and 8% of its total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit), respectively. At December 31, 2010, Comerica met both
requirements, with Tier 1 and total capital equal to 10.13% and 14.54% of its total risk-weighted assets, respectively.

Comerica is also required to maintain a minimum “leverage ratio” (Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets) of 3% to 5%,
depending upon criteria defined and assessed by the FRB. Comerica’s leverage ratio of 11.26% at December 31, 2010 reflects the nature of Comerica’s balance sheet and demonstrates a commitment to capital adequacy.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA requires federal bank
regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions any such agency supervises. The standards relate generally to, among others, earnings, liquidity, operations and management, asset quality, various
risk and management exposures (e.g., credit, operational, market, interest rate, etc.) and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

FDIC Insurance Assessments

Comerica’s subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). Additionally, from the fourth quarter of 2008 through
June 30, 2010, Comerica and its subsidiary banks elected to participate in the FDIC’s Transaction Account Guarantee Program that requires the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. In April 2010, the FDIC adopted an interim
rule extending the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”) through December 31, 2010 for financial institutions that desired to continue TAGP participation. Comerica and its subsidiary banks elected to opt-out of the
FDIC’s TAGP extension, effective July 1, 2010. In July 2010, the Financial Reform Act reinstated, for all financial institutions, unlimited deposit insurance on noninterest-bearing accounts for the period from December 31, 2010
through December 31, 2012.

As of December 31, 2010, Comerica’s banking subsidiaries held approximately
$40 billion of DIF-assessable deposits. Prior to 2007, Comerica’s banking subsidiaries had not paid nor been assessed deposit insurance assessments on DIF-assessable deposits under the FDIC’s risk related assessment system. The
FDIC’s risk related assessment system was revised effective January 1, 2007, however, and Comerica’s banking subsidiaries were assessed deposit insurance premiums on a quarterly basis, beginning in June 2007. In 2008, these assessment
premiums totaled $26.8 million and were first applied against the remaining credit of $17.1 million. During the second quarter of 2009, the FDIC levied an industry-wide special assessment charge on







insured financial institutions as part of the agency’s efforts to rebuild DIF. In November 2009, the FDIC amended regulations that required insured institutions to prepay their estimated
quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010-2012. The prepaid assessments will be applied against future quarterly assessments (as they may be so revised) until the prepaid assessment is exhausted or the
balance of the prepayment is returned, whichever occurs first. Comerica paid such prepaid assessment on December 30, 2009, along with its regular quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. In 2009, these
assessment premiums totaled $281 million, including the second quarter special assessment of $29 million and prepaid assessments of $200 million (which includes assessments that will be expensed by Comerica during 2010-2012). In 2010,
the assessment premiums applied against the prepayment totaled $50 million. The remaining prepayment at December 31, 2010 was $150 million, against which 2011 and 2012 DIF assessments will be applied.

In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC announced that it would seek public comment on whether financial institutions with
compensation plans that encourage risky behavior should be charged higher deposit assessment rates than such financial institutions would otherwise be charged.

The FDIC is not precluded from changing assessment rates or from further revising the risk-based assessment system during the prepayment period or thereafter. Thus, Comerica may also be required to pay
significantly higher FDIC insurance assessments premiums in the future because market developments significantly depleted DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.

Enforcement Powers of Federal Banking Agencies

The FRB and other federal
banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could
subject Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers and directors of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil and criminal penalties.

Capital Purchase Program







On March 17, 2010, Comerica fully redeemed the Series F Preferred Stock previously
issued to the U.S. Treasury, and Comerica exited the Capital Purchase Program. Also, in May 2010, Comerica registered the Warrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Treasury auctioned the Warrant to the public. Prior to such
registration and public sale, the Warrant was separated into 11,479,592 warrants to purchase one share of Comerica’s common stock at an exercise price of $29.40 per share. The warrants are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. For
additional details about the Capital Purchase Program, please refer to pages 36 through 38 under the caption “Capital” and Note 14 on pages 117 through 118 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in
Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010.

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program

Among other programs and actions taken by the U.S. regulatory agencies during the financial crisis, the FDIC implemented
the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system. The TLGP was comprised of the Debt Guarantee Program (“DGP”) and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program
(“TAGP”). The DGP guaranteed all newly issued senior unsecured debt (e.g., promissory notes, unsubordinated unsecured notes and commercial paper) up to prescribed limits issued by participating entities beginning on October 14,
2008 and continuing through October 31, 2009. For eligible debt issued by that date, the FDIC provided the guarantee coverage until the earlier of the maturity date of the debt or December 31, 2012 (or June 30, 2012 for debt issued
prior to April 1, 2009). The TAGP offered full guarantee for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts held at FDIC-insured depository institutions. The unlimited deposit coverage was voluntary for eligible institutions and was in addition to
the $250,000 FDIC deposit insurance per account that was included as part of the EESA. The TAGP coverage became effective on October 14, 2008.

Initially, the TLGP programs, the DGP and TAGP, were provided at no cost for the first 30 days. On November 3, 2008, the FDIC extended the opt-out period to December 5, 2008 to provide
eligible institutions additional time to consider the terms before making a final decision regarding participation in the program through December 31, 2009. On December 5, 2008, Comerica announced that it and two of its subsidiaries,
Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, formally elected to continue their participation in the TLGP. Participants in the DGP were charged an annualized fee ranging from 50 basis points (bps) to 100 bps (depending on
the maturity of the debt issued) multiplied by the amount of debt issued, and calculated for the maturity period of that debt, or through June 30, 2012, whichever is earlier. Based on the terms of the DGP, Comerica Bank could have issued up to
approximately $5.2 billion of qualifying senior debt securities covered by the DGP. As of December 31, 2010, there is no senior unsecured debt outstanding under the DGP.

Effective October 1, 2009, in order to assure an orderly phase out of the TAGP, FDIC extended the TAGP for six months until
June 30, 2010. Any insured depository institution that was participating in the TAG program as of October 1, 2009 was permitted to continue in the TAGP during the extension period that ends on June 30, 2010. The annual assessment rate
that applied to participating institutions during the extension period is either 15 basis points, 20 basis points or 25 basis points, depending on the “Risk Category” assigned to the institution under the FDIC’s risk-based premium
system. Any institution participating in the TAG program as of October 1, 2009 that desired to opt out of the TAG extension was required to submit its opt-out election to the FDIC on or before November 2, 2009, and any such election to opt
out was effective on January 1, 2010. In April 2010, the FDIC adopted an interim rule extending the TAGP through December 31, 2010 for financial institutions that desired to continue TAGP participation. Comerica, Comerica Bank
and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association elected to opt out of such TAGP’s extension period, so they ceased to participate in the TAGP as of July 1, 2010.

However, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Financial Reform Act”)
reinstated, for all financial institutions, unlimited deposit insurance on noninterest-bearing and







certain interest-bearing demand deposit accounts for the period from December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2012. For further discussion of the Financial Reform Act, refer to
“The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” section below in this “Supervisory and Regulation” section.

For additional details about the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, see pages 35 and 36 under the caption “Deposits and Borrowed Funds.”

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act

Due to the recent financial crisis, there have been significant changes in the competitive landscape of the financial services industry and an overhaul of the legislative and regulatory landscape with the
passage of the Financial Reform Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Financial Reform Act provides for, among other matters, increased regulatory supervision and examination of financial institutions, the imposition of more
stringent capital requirements on financial institutions and increased regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions. Provided below is an overview of key elements of the Financial Reform Act relevant to Comerica. Most of the provisions
contained in the Financial Reform Act became effective immediately upon enactment; however, many have delayed effective dates. Implementation of the Financial Reform Act will require many new mandatory and discretionary rules to be made by federal
regulatory agencies over the next several years. The estimates of the impact on Comerica discussed below are based on the limited information currently available and, given the uncertainty of the timing and scope of the impact, are subject to change
until final rulemaking is complete.



•Interest on Demand Deposits: Allows interest on commercial demand deposits, which could lead to increased cost of commercial demand deposits, depending
on the interplay of interest, deposit credits and service charges.



•Unlimited Deposit Insurance Extension: Provides unlimited deposit insurance on noninterest-bearing accounts from December 31, 2010 to
December 31, 2012. There will not be a separate assessment for unlimited deposit insurance coverage for this period.



•Deposit Insurance: Changes the definition of assessment base from domestic deposits to net assets (average consolidated total assets less average
tangible equity), increases the deposit insurance fund’s minimum reserve ratio and permanently increases general deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000. Comerica expects 2011 FDIC insurance expense to remain consistent with the
2010 expense.



•Derivatives: Allows continued trading of foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives. Requires banks to shift energy, uncleared commodities and
agriculture derivatives to a separately capitalized subsidiary within their holding company. Directly impacts client-driven energy derivatives business (approximately $1 million in annual revenue, based on full-year 2010 estimates).



•Interchange Fee: Limits debit card transaction processing fees that card issuers can charge to merchants. Based on the options currently contemplated
in the draft, estimated annual revenue from debit card PIN and signature-based interchange fees in 2011 is expected to decrease by approximately $13 million to $15 million.



•Trust Preferred Securities: Prohibits holding companies with more than $15 billion in assets from including trust preferred securities as Tier 1
capital, and allows for a phase-in period of three years, beginning on January 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, Comerica had no trust preferred securities outstanding.







The Financial Reform Act also:



•requires that publicly traded companies give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and “golden parachute” payments, and
authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials;



•established a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets;



•weakened the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal
consumer protection laws; and



•created a financial stability oversight council that may recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity,
risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity.

The environment in which financial
institutions will operate after the recent financial crisis, including legislative and regulatory changes affecting capital, liquidity, supervision, permissible activities, corporate governance and compensation, and changes in fiscal policy may have
long-term effects on the business model and profitability of financial institutions that cannot now be foreseen.

Other Recent Legislative
and Regulatory Developments

In response to global credit and liquidity issues involving a number of financial
institutions, the United States government, particularly the United States Department of the Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) and the FDIC, have taken a variety of extraordinary measures over the last couple years designed to restore
confidence in the financial markets and to strengthen financial institutions, including capital injections, guarantees of bank liabilities and the acquisition of illiquid assets from banks. Moreover, the environment in which banking organizations
are operating after the financial crisis has been impacted by recent developments, including legislative and regulatory changes affecting capital, liquidity, supervision, permissible activities, and corporate governance and compensation.

On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was signed into law. Pursuant to the
EESA, the U.S. Treasury was granted the authority to take a range of actions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets and has proposed several programs, including the purchase by the U.S. Treasury of
certain troubled assets from financial institutions (the “Troubled Asset Relief Program”) and the direct purchase by the U.S. Treasury of equity of healthy financial institutions (the “Capital Purchase Program”). The EESA also
temporarily raised the limit on federal deposit insurance coverage provided by the FDIC from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor.

On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”) was signed into law. Section 7001 of the ARRA amended Section 111 of the EESA in its
entirety. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury released an interim final rule (the “IFR”), effective June 15, 2009, that provided guidance on the compensation and governance standards for Troubled Asset Relief Program
(“TARP”) recipients, and promulgated regulations to implement the restrictions and standards set forth in Section 7001 of the ARRA. Among other things, the IFR and ARRA significantly expanded the executive compensation restrictions
previously imposed by the EESA. Such restrictions apply to any entity that has received or will receive financial







assistance under TARP, and shall generally continue to apply for as long as any obligation arising from financial assistance provided under TARP, including preferred stock issued under the
Capital Purchase Program, remains outstanding. As a result of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, the restrictions and standards set forth in Section 7001 of the ARRA, as well as the IFR promulgated by the U.S. Treasury, were
applicable to Comerica prior to the redemption of the Series F Preferred Stock on March 17, 2010.

On May 20, 2009,
the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009, which extended the temporary increase in the standard maximum deposit insurance amount provided by the FDIC to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2013, was signed into law. This
extension of the temporary $250,000 coverage limit (pursuant to the EESA) became effective immediately upon the President’s signature. The legislation provides that the standard maximum deposit insurance amount provided by the FDIC will return
to $100,000 on January 1, 2014.

On October 22, 2009, the Federal Reserve issued a comprehensive proposal on
incentive compensation policies (the “Incentive Compensation Proposal”) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging
excessive risk-taking. This guidance sets expectations for banking organizations concerning their incentive compensation arrangements and related risk-management, control, and governance processes. The Incentive Compensation Proposal, which covers
all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon three primary principles: (i) balanced risk-taking incentives, (ii) compatibility with
effective controls and risk management, and (iii) strong corporate governance. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to
make acquisitions or perform other actions. In addition, under the Incentive Compensation Proposal, the Federal Reserve in appropriate circumstances may take enforcement action against a banking organization.

On November 12, 2009, the Federal Reserve adopted amendments to its Regulation E, effective July 1, 2010, that prohibit
financial institutions from charging clients overdraft fees on automated teller machines (“ATM”) and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those type of transactions.
Pursuant to the adopted regulation, clients must opt-in to an overdraft service in order for the financial institution to collect overdraft fees. If a consumer does not opt in, any ATM transaction or debit that overdraws the consumer’s account
will be denied. Overdrafts on the payment of checks and regular electronic bill payments are not covered by this new rule. Before opting in, the consumer must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services,
including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices. Financial institutions must provide consumers who do not opt in with the same account terms, conditions and features (including pricing) that they provide to consumers
who do opt in.

On January 14, 2010, the current administration announced a proposal to impose a fee (the “Financial
Crisis Responsibility Fee”) on those financial institutions that benefited from recent actions taken by the U.S. government to stabilize the financial system. If implemented as initially proposed, the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee will be
applied to firms with over $50 billion in consolidated assets, and, therefore, by its terms would apply to Comerica. The Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee was not included in the Financial Reform Act. On February 14, 2011, the administration
included a revised Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee in its proposed fiscal 2012 budget.

Effective July 1, 2010, the
Federal Reserve Board amended Regulation E to prohibit charging overdraft fees for ATM or point-of-sale debit card transactions unless the customer opts-in to the overdraft service. See above in “Other Recent Legislative and Regulatory
Developments” for more information on the Regulation E amendments as previously adopted by the Federal Reserve on November 12, 2009.

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC issued a comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking
organizations do







During the third quarter 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision revised the Capital Accord (“Basel III”), which
narrows the definition of capital and increases capital requirements for specific exposures. The new capital requirements will be phased-in over six years beginning in 2013. The final package of Basel III reforms was endorsed by G20 leaders on
November 12, 2010, and is subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the United States. If these revisions are adopted as endorsed, we estimate they would have a negligible impact on our regulatory capital ratios based on our
current understanding of the revisions to capital qualification. However, the ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including treatment and implementation
by the U.S. banking regulators. We await clarification from our banking regulators on their interpretation of Basel III and any additional requirements to the stated thresholds.







Future Legislation

Changes to the laws of the states and countries in which Comerica and its subsidiaries do business could affect the operating environment of bank holding companies and their subsidiaries in substantial
and unpredictable ways. Moreover, in light of recent events and current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have continued to increase their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry.
Comerica cannot accurately predict whether legislative changes will occur or, if they occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or results of operations of Comerica.

UNDERWRITING APPROACH

The loan
portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, so proper loan underwriting is critical to Comerica’s long-term financial success. Comerica extends credit to businesses, individuals and public entities based on sound lending principles
and consistent with prudent banking practice. During the loan underwriting process, a qualitative and quantitative analysis of potential credit facilities is performed, and the credit risks associated with each relationship are evaluated. Important
factors considered as part of the underwriting process for new loans and loan renewals include:



•People: Including the competence, integrity and succession planning of customers;



•Purpose: The legal, logical and productive purposes of the credit facility;



•Payment: Including the source, timing and probability of payment;



•Protection: Including obtaining alternative sources of repayment, securing the loan, as appropriate, with collateral and/or third-party guarantees and
ensuring appropriate legal documentation is obtained.



•Perspective: The risk/reward relationship and pricing elements (cost of funds; servicing costs; time value of money; credit risk).

Comerica prices credit facilities to reflect risk, the related costs and the expected return, while
maintaining competitiveness with other banks. Loans with variable and fixed rates are underwritten to achieve expected risk-adjusted returns on the credit facilities and for the full relationship including the borrower’s ability to repay the
principal and interest based on such rates.

Credit Administration

Comerica maintains a Credit Administration Department (“Credit Administration”) which is responsible for the oversight and
monitoring of our loan portfolio. Credit Administration assists with underwriting by providing objective financial analysis, including an assessment of the borrower’s business model, balance sheet, cash flow and collateral. Each borrower
relationship is assigned an internal risk rating by Credit Administration. Further, Credit Administration updates the assigned internal risk rating for every borrower relationship as new information becomes available, either as a result of periodic
reviews of the credit quality or as a result of a change in borrower performance. The goal of the internal risk rating framework is to improve Comerica’s risk management capability, including its ability to identify and manage changes in the
credit risk profile of its portfolio, predict future losses and price the loans appropriately for risk.

Credit Policy

Comerica maintains a comprehensive set of credit policies. Comerica’s credit policies provide individual loan officers, as well as
loan committees, approval authorities based on our internal risk rating system and establish maximum exposure limits based on risk ratings and Comerica’s legal lending limit. Credit







Administration, in conjunction with the businesses units, monitors compliance with the credit policies and modifies the existing policies as necessary. New or modified policies/guidelines require
approval by the Strategic Credit Committee, chaired by Comerica’s Chief Credit Officer and comprising senior credit and market executives.

Commercial and Industrial Loan Portfolio

Commercial and Industrial Loans are underwritten using a comprehensive analysis of the borrower’s operations. The underwriting process includes an analysis of some or all of the factors listed below:



•The borrower’s business model.



•Periodic review of financial statements including financial statements audited by an independent certified public accountant when substantial credit
exposure exists.



•The pro-forma financial condition including financial projections.



•The borrower’s sources and uses of funds.



•The borrower’s debt service capacity.



•The guarantor’s financial strength.



•A comprehensive review of the quality and value of collateral, including independent third-party appraisals of machinery and equipment and commercial
real estate, as appropriate, to determine the advance rates.



•Physical inspection of collateral and audits of receivables, as appropriate.

Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Loan Portfolio

Comerica’s CRE loan portfolio consists of real estate construction and commercial mortgage loans and includes both loans to real estate investors and developers, and loans secured by owner-occupied
real estate. Comerica’s CRE loan underwriting policies are consistent with the approach described above and provide maximum loan-to-value ratios that limit the size of a loan to a maximum percentage of the value of the real estate collateral
securing the loan. The loan-to-value percentage varies by the type of collateral and is limited by advance rates established by our regulators. Our loan-to-value limitations are, in certain cases, more restrictive than those required by regulators
and are determined by other risk factors such as the financial strength of the borrower or guarantor, the equity provided to the project and the viability of the project itself. CRE loans generally require cash equity. CRE loans are normally
originated with full recourse or limited recourse to all principals and owners. There are limitations to the size of a single project loan and to the aggregate dollar exposure to a single guarantor.

Consumer and Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolios

Comerica’s consumer and residential mortgage loans are originated consistent with the underwriting approach described above, but also includes an assessment of each borrower’s personal financial
condition, including verification of income, assets and FICO score. Comerica does not originate subprime loans. Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, Comerica defines subprime
loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors. These credit factors include low FICO scores, poor patterns of payment history, high debt-to-income ratios
and elevated loan-to-value. We consider subprime FICO scores to be those







below 620 on a secured basis (excluding loans with cash or near-cash collateral and adequate income to make payments) and below 660 for unsecured loans. Adjustable rate loans are limited to
standard conventional loan programs.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010, Comerica and its subsidiaries had 8,636 full-time and 729 part-time employees.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Comerica maintains an Internet website at
www.comerica.com where the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports
are filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Financial Officer Code of
Ethics adopted by Comerica are also available on the Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be made in writing to the Corporate Secretary at Comerica Incorporated, Comerica Bank Tower,
1717 Main Street, MC 6404, Dallas, Texas 75201.

