Item 1. Business.

GENERAL

Comerica Incorporated (“Comerica”) is a financial services company, incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, and headquartered in Dallas, Texas. Based on total assets as reported in the most recently filed Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies (FR Y-9C), it was among the 25 largest commercial United States (“U.S.”) financial holding companies. Comerica was formed in 1973 to acquire the outstanding common stock of Comerica Bank, which at such time was a Michigan banking corporation and one of Michigan's oldest banks (formerly Comerica Bank-Detroit). On October 31, 2007, Comerica Bank, a Michigan banking corporation, was merged with and into Comerica Bank, a Texas banking association (“Comerica Bank”). As ofDecember 31, 2016, Comerica owned directly or indirectly all the outstanding common stock of2active banking and33non-banking subsidiaries. AtDecember 31, 2016, Comerica had total assets of approximately$73.0 billion, total deposits of approximately$59.0 billion, total loans (net of unearned income) of approximately$49.1 billionand shareholders’ equity of approximately$7.8 billion.

Business Segments

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth Management. In addition to the three major business segments, Finance is also reported as a segment. We provide information about our business segments and the principal products and services provided by these segments in Note 23 on pages F-102 through F-105 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located in the Financial Section of this report.

Comerica operates in three primary geographic markets - Texas, California, and Michigan, as well as in Arizona and Florida, with select businesses operating in several other states, and in Canada and Mexico. We provide information about our market segments in Note 23 on pages F-102 through F-105 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located in the Financial Section of this report.

Activities with customers domiciled outside the U.S., in total or with any individual country, are not significant. We provide information on risks attendant to foreign operations: (1) under the caption “Concentration of Credit Risk” on page F-29 of the Financial Section of this report; and (2) under the caption "International Exposure" on pages F-31 through F-32 of the Financial Section of this report.

We provide information about the net interest income and noninterest income we received from our various classes of products and services: (1) under the caption, “Analysis of Net Interest Income” on page F-6 of the Financial Section of this report; (2) under the caption “Net Interest Income” on pages F-7 through F-8 of the Financial Section of this report; and (3) under the caption “Noninterest Income” on pages F-8 through F-9 of the Financial Section of this report.

COMPETITION

The financial services business is highly competitive. Comerica and its subsidiaries mainly compete in their three primary geographic markets of Texas, California and Michigan, as well as in the states of Arizona and Florida. They also compete in broader, national geographic markets, as well as markets in Mexico and Canada. They are subject to competition with respect to various products and services, including, without limitation, loans and lines of credit, deposits, cash management, capital market products, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange management services, loan syndication services, consumer lending, consumer deposit gathering, mortgage loan origination, consumer products, fiduciary services, private banking, retirement services, investment management and advisory services, investment banking services, brokerage services, the sale of annuity products, and the sale of life, disability and long-term care insurance products.

Comerica competes in terms of products and pricing with large national and regional financial institutions and with smaller financial institutions. Some of Comerica's larger competitors, including certain nationwide banks that have a significant presence in Comerica's market area, may make available to their customers a broader array of product, pricing and structure alternatives and, due to their asset size, may more easily absorb credit losses in a larger overall portfolio. Some of Comerica's competitors (larger or smaller) may have more liberal lending policies and processes. Further, Comerica's banking competitors may be subject to a significantly different or reduced degree of regulation due to their asset size or types of products offered. They may also have the ability to more efficiently utilize resources to comply with regulations or may be able to more effectively absorb the costs of regulations into their existing cost structure. Comerica believes that the level of competition in all geographic markets will continue to increase in the future.

In addition to banks, Comerica's banking subsidiaries also face competition from other financial intermediaries, including savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, leasing companies, venture capital funds, credit unions, investment banks, insurance companies and securities firms. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified









competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to many of the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures.

In addition, the industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

Banks, bank holding companies, and financial institutions are highly regulated at both the state and federal level. Comerica is subject to supervision and regulation at the federal level by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the activities in which a bank holding company registered as a financial holding company can engage. The conditions to be a financial holding company include, among others, the requirement that each depository institution subsidiary of the holding company be well capitalized and well managed. Effective July 2011, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) also requires the well capitalized and well managed standards to be met at the financial holding company level. Comerica became a financial holding company in 2000. As a financial holding company, Comerica may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies, and engage in activities that are financial in nature. Activities that are “financial in nature” include, but are not limited to: securities underwriting; securities dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies (subject to regulatory requirements, including restrictions set forth in the Volcker Rule, described under the heading "The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments

"

below); insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the FRB has determined to be financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial activity, provided that it does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of the depository institution or the financial system generally. A bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company is limited to engaging in banking and other activities previously determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking.

Comerica Bank is chartered by the State of Texas and at the state level is supervised and regulated by the Texas Department of Banking under the Texas Finance Code. Comerica Bank has elected to be a member of the Federal Reserve System under the Federal Reserve Act and, consequently, is supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association is chartered under federal law and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) under the National Bank Act. Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, by virtue of being a national bank, is also a member of the Federal Reserve System. The deposits of Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the extent provided by law. Certain transactions executed by Comerica Bank are also subject to regulation by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. In Canada, Comerica Bank is supervised by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions and in Mexico, by the Banco de México.

The FRB supervises non-banking activities conducted by companies directly and indirectly owned by Comerica. In addition, Comerica's non-banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc.), the Department of Insurance and Financial Services of the State of Michigan (in the case of Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.), the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc.) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and World Asset Management, Inc.).

Described below are material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Comerica and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business of Comerica and its subsidiaries.

Requirements for Approval of Acquisitions and Activities

In most cases, no FRB approval is required for Comerica to acquire a company engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. However, Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions of other depository institutions or bank holding companies. Prior approval is required before Comerica may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company (including a financial holding company) or a bank.

The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”) requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities. Comerica Bank's current rating under the “CRA” is “satisfactory”. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to receive a rating under the CRA of less than “satisfactory,” Comerica would be prohibited from engaging in certain activities.









In addition, Comerica, Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, are each “well capitalized” and “well managed” under FRB standards. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to cease being “well capitalized” or “well managed” under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB could place limitations on Comerica's ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or impose limitations or conditions on the conduct or activities of Comerica or its affiliates. If the deficiencies persisted, the FRB could order Comerica to divest any subsidiary bank or to cease engaging in any activities permissible for financial holding companies that are not permissible for bank holding companies, or Comerica could elect to conform its non-banking activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company.

Further, the effectiveness of Comerica and its subsidiaries in complying with anti-money laundering regulations (discussed below) is also taken into account by the FRB when considering applications for approval of acquisitions.

Transactions with Affiliates

Privacy

The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including Comerica, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes.

Anti-Money Laundering Regulations

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act (“USA PATRIOT Act”) of 2001 and its implementing regulations substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by requiring insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants. To comply with these obligations, Comerica and its various operating units have implemented appropriate internal practices, procedures, and controls.

Interstate Banking and Branching

The Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (the “Interstate Act”), as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, permits a bank holding company, with FRB approval, to acquire banking institutions located in states other than the bank holding company's home state without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited under state law, but subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to and following the proposed acquisition, control no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30% of such deposits in that state (or such amount as established by state law if such amount is lower than 30%). The Interstate Act, as amended, also authorizes banks to operate branch offices outside their home states by merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in other states and by establishing de novo branches in other states, subject to various conditions. In the case of purchasing branches in a state in which it does not already have banking operations, the “host” state must have “opted-in” to the Interstate Act by enacting a law permitting such branch purchases. The









Dodd-Frank Act expanded the de novo interstate branching authority of banks beyond what had been permitted under the Interstate Act by eliminating the requirement that a state expressly “opt-in” to de novo branching, in favor of a rule that de novo interstate branching is permissible if under the law of the state in which the branch is to be located, a state bank chartered by that state would be permitted to establish the branch. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that a bank holding company or bank be well capitalized and well managed (rather than simply adequately capitalized and adequately managed) in order to take advantage of these interstate banking and branching provisions.

Comerica has consolidated the majority of its banking business into one bank, Comerica Bank, with banking centers in Texas, Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, as well as Canada.

Dividends

Comerica is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Most of Comerica's revenues result from dividends its bank subsidiaries pay it. There are statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to Comerica, as well as by Comerica to its shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements are discussed below.

Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are required by federal law to obtain the prior approval of the FRB and/or the OCC, as the case may be, for the declaration and payment of dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (i) such bank's retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or to fund the retirement of preferred stock. At January 1,2017, Comerica's subsidiary banks could declare aggregate dividends of approximately$142 millionfrom retained net profits of the preceding two years. Comerica's subsidiary banks declared dividends of$545 millionin2016,$437 millionin2015and$380 millionin2014.

Further, federal regulatory agencies can prohibit a banking institution or bank holding company from engaging in unsafe and unsound banking practices and could prohibit the payment of dividends under circumstances in which such payment could be deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”), “prompt corrective action” regime discussed below, which applies to each of Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, a subject bank is specifically prohibited from paying dividends to its parent company if payment would result in the bank becoming “undercapitalized.” In addition, Comerica Bank is also subject to limitations under Texas state law regarding the amount of earnings that may be paid out as dividends to its parent company, and requiring prior approval for payments of dividends that exceed certain levels.

Additionally, the payment of dividends by Comerica to its shareholders is subject to the non-objection of the FRB pursuant to the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) program. For more information, please see “The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments” in this section.

Source of Strength and Cross-Guarantee Requirements

Federal law and FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC (either as a result of the failure of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of failure), the other banking subsidiaries may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to certain exceptions.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act

FDICIA requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution's capital tier will depend upon where its capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, which, among others, include a Tier 1 and total risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure.

Regulations establishing the specific capital tiers provide that, for a depository institution to be well capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital measure of at least 6.5%, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to any specific capital order or directive. For an institution to be adequately capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital measure of at least 4.5% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4%. Under certain circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution as if the institution were in the next lower capital category.

As ofDecember 31, 2016, Comerica and its banking subsidiaries exceeded the ratios required for an institution to be considered “well capitalized” under these regulations.









FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to limitations on growth and certain activities and are required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution's capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the institution's parent holding company must guarantee for a specific time period that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the depository institution's total assets at the time it became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit or implement an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to a number of requirements and restrictions. Specifically, such a depository institution may be required to do one or more of the following, among other things: sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, reduce the interest rates it pays on deposits, reduce its rate of asset growth, dismiss certain senior executive officers or directors, or stop accepting deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator or such other action as the FDIC and the applicable federal banking agency shall determine appropriate.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions any such agency supervises. The standards relate generally to, among others, earnings, liquidity, operations and management, asset quality, various risk and management exposures (e.g., credit, operational, market, interest rate, etc.) and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the operations of depository institutions including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate lending, “truth in savings” provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch, and a prohibition on the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC.

Capital Requirements

Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB and/or the OCC.

Comerica, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain CET1, Tier 1 (the sum of CET1 and additional Tier 1 capital) and “total capital” (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 4.5%, 6% and 8% of its total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit), respectively. In 2016, Comerica was also required to maintain a minimum capital conservation buffer of 0.625% in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses. The minimum required capital conservation buffer gradually increases to 2.5% in 2019. AtDecember 31, 2016, Comerica met all requirements, with CET1, Tier 1 and total capital equal to11.09%,11.09%and13.27%of its total risk-weighted assets, respectively, and a capital conservation buffer of5.09%of its total risk-weighted assets.

Comerica is also required to maintain a minimum “leverage ratio” (Tier 1 capital to non-risk-adjusted total assets) of 4%. Comerica's leverage ratio of10.18%atDecember 31, 2016reflects the nature of Comerica's balance sheet and demonstrates a commitment to capital adequacy. AtDecember 31, 2016, Comerica Bank had CET1, Tier 1 and total capital equal to10.51%,









10.51%and12.40%of its total risk-weighted assets, respectively, a capital conservation buffer of4.40%of its total risk-weighted assets, and a leverage ratio of9.65%.

Additional information on the calculation of Comerica and its bank subsidiaries' CET1, Tier 1 capital, total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in Note20of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on pages F-99 through F-100of the Financial Section of this report. Additional information on the timing and nature of the Basel III capital requirements is set forth below, under "Basel III: Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Regime."

FDIC Insurance Assessments

The FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) provides insurance coverage for certain deposits. Comerica's subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, which was amended pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and further amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also increased the DIF's minimum reserve ratio and permanently increased general deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000. Under the risk-based deposit premium assessment system, the assessment rates for an insured depository institution are determined by an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each institution poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly and could increase if, for example, criticized loans and/or other higher risk assets increase or balance sheet liquidity decreases. For2016, Comerica’s FDIC insurance expense totaled $54 million, including the surcharge described below.

Effective July 1, 2016, the FDIC issued a final rule in order to implement section 334 of the Dodd-Frank Act (§334), which requires the FDIC to (1) raise the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF to 1.35 percent, from 1.15 percent, (2) assess premiums on banks to reach the 1.35 percent goal by September 30, 2020, and (3) offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10 billion. The final rule imposes a surcharge on large banks, to be assessed over a period of eight quarters, as a means to implement §334. Comerica is subject to the surcharge assessment. If this surcharge is insufficient to increase the reserve ratio to 1.35 percent by December 31, 2018, a one-time shortfall assessment will be imposed on institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more on March 31, 2019. Management currently estimates that, based on the final rule, FDIC expense will increase by a total of approximately $20 million over the eight-quarter period that began July 1, 2016.

Enforcement Powers of Federal and State Banking Agencies

The FRB and other federal and state banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including, without limitation, and as prescribed to each agency by applicable law, the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers and directors of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil and criminal penalties.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Recent Legislative and Regulatory Developments

The financial crisis led to significant changes in the legislative and regulatory landscape of the financial services industry, including the overhaul of that landscape with the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Provided below is an overview of key elements of the Dodd-Frank Act relevant to Comerica, as well as recent legislative and regulatory developments. The estimates of the impact on Comerica discussed below are based on information currently available and, if applicable, are subject to change until final rulemaking is complete.

Incentive-Based Compensation









individuals covered by each plan and the risks inherent in each plan’s design and implementation. Comerica has determined that risks arising from employee compensation plans are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on Comerica. Further, it is the Company’s intent to continue to evolve our processes going forward by monitoring regulations and best practices for sound incentive compensation.

Basel III: Regulatory Capital and Liquidity Regime.  In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) issued a framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation (“Basel III”). In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule for the U.S. adoption of the Basel III regulatory capital framework. Basel III includes a more stringent definition of capital and introduces a new common equity Tier 1 ("CET1") capital requirement; sets forth two comprehensive methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets ("RWA"), a standardized approach and an advanced approach; introduces two new capital buffers, a conservation buffer and a countercyclical buffer (applicable to advanced approach entities); establishes a new supplemental leverage ratio (applicable to advanced approach entities); and sets out minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards. As a banking organization subject to the standardized approach, the rules were effective for Comerica on January 1, 2015. Certain deductions and adjustments to regulatory capital (primarily related to intangible assets and surplus Tier 2 capital minority interest) phase in and will be fully implemented on January 1, 2018. The capital conservation buffer phases in at 0.625 percent beginning on January 1, 2016 and ultimately increases to 2.5 percent on January 1, 2019. Comerica is not subject to the countercyclical buffer or the supplemental leverage ratio.

Comerica'sDecember 31, 2016CET1 and Tier 1 ratios were both11.09 percent. Comerica'sDecember 31, 2016CET1 and Tier 1 capital ratios exceed the minimum required by the final rule (4.5 percent and 6 percent, respectively).

On September 3, 2014, U.S. banking regulators adopted the Liquidity Coverage Ratio ("LCR") rule, which set for U.S. banks the minimum liquidity measure established under the Basel III liquidity framework. Under the final rule, Comerica is subject to a modified LCR standard, which requires a financial institution to hold a minimum level of high-quality, liquid assets ("HQLA") to fully cover modified net cash outflows under a 30-day systematic liquidity stress scenario. The rule was effective for Comerica on January 1, 2016. During the transition year, 2016, Comerica was required to maintain a minimum LCR of 90 percent. Beginning January 1, 2017, and thereafter, the minimum required LCR will be 100 percent. At each quarter-end in 2016, Comerica was in compliance with the fully phased-in LCR requirement, plus a buffer.

In the second quarter 2016, U.S. banking regulators issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (the proposed rule) implementing a second quantitative liquidity requirement in the U.S. generally consistent with the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) minimum liquidity measure established under the Basel III liquidity framework. Under the proposed rule, Comerica will be subject to a modified NSFR standard effective January 1, 2018, which requires a financial institution to hold a minimum level of available longer-term, stable sources of funding to fully cover a modified amount of required longer-term stable funding, over a one-year period. Comerica does not currently expect the proposed rule to have a material impact on its liquidity needs.

Interchange Fees.  On July 20, 2011, the FRB published final rules (Regulation II) pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act establishing the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction as the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction and prohibiting network exclusivity arrangements and routing restrictions. Comerica is subject to the final rules.

Supervision and Regulation Assessment.  Section 318 of the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the federal banking agencies to assess fees against bank holding companies with total consolidated assets in excess of $50 billion equal to the expenses necessary or appropriate in order to carry out their supervision and regulation of those companies. Comerica expensed $1.9 million for 2016, which will be assessed in the first quarter 2017.

The Volcker Rule. The federal banking agencies and the SEC published approved joint final regulations to implement the Volcker Rule on December 10, 2013. The Volcker Rule generally prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading and from owning and sponsoring "covered funds" (e.g. hedge funds and private equity funds). The final regulations adopt









a multi-faceted approach to implementing the Volcker Rule prohibitions that relies on: (i) detailed descriptions of prohibited and permitted activities; (ii) detailed compliance requirements; and (iii) for banking entities with large volumes of trading activity, detailed quantitative analysis and reporting obligations. In addition to rules implementing the core prohibitions and exemptions (e.g. underwriting, market-making related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and trading in certain government obligations) of the Volcker Rule, the regulations also include two appendices devoted to record-keeping and reporting requirements, including numerous quantitative data reporting obligations for banking entities with significant trading activities (Appendix A) and enhanced compliance requirements for banking entities with significant trading or covered fund activities (Appendix B). The final rule was effective April 1, 2014. The Volcker Rule generally required full compliance with the new restrictions by July 21, 2015; however, the FRB has extended the conformance period to July 21, 2017 for covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013. Comerica is currently in compliance with the effective aspect of the Volcker Rule and expects to meet the final requirements adopted by regulators within the applicable regulatory timelines. Additional information on Comerica's portfolio of indirect (through funds) private equity and venture capital investments is set forth in Note


of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on page F-52 of the Financial Section of this report.

Annual Capital Plans and Stress Tests. Comerica is subject to the FRB’s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process, as well as the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing (DFAST) requirements. As part of the CCAR process, the FRB undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of bank holding companies (BHCs), including Comerica, that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. This capital adequacy assessment is based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted by each participating BHC to the FRB that describes the company’s planned capital actions during the nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by both the company and the FRB under different hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory baseline and an adverse and a severely adverse scenario provided by the FRB. The FRB reviews both quantitative factors (such as projected capital ratios under a hypothetical stress scenario) and qualitative factors (such as the strength of the company's capital planning process). On January 30, 2017, the FRB issued a final rule stating that going forward, large and noncomplex firms, such as Comerica, would remain subject to a quantitative assessment in CCAR, but would no longer be subject to the qualitative assessment as part of CCAR; instead, the qualitative assessment would be conducted through the regular ongoing supervisory review process.

After completing its review, the FRB may object or not object to the company’s proposed capital actions, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends, reinstate or increase common equity repurchase programs, or issue or redeem preferred stock or other regulatory capital instruments. In connection with the 2016 CCAR, Comerica submitted its 2016 capital plan to the FRB on April 4, 2016; on June 23, 2016, Comerica and the FRB released the revenue, loss and capital results from the annual stress testing exercises and on June 29, 2016, Comerica announced that the FRB had completed its CCAR 2016 capital plan review and did not object to the capital plan or capital distributions contemplated in the plan for the four-quarter period commencing in the third quarter 2016 and ending in the second quarter 2017. Comerica plans to submit its CCAR 2017 capital plan to the FRB, consistent with supervisory guidance (SR 15-19), in April 2017 and expects to receive the results of the FRB's review of the plan in June 2017 and to release its company-run stress tests results in June or July 2017.

FRB regulations also required that Comerica and other large bank holding companies conduct a separate mid-year stress test using financial data as of June 30th and three company-derived macro-economic scenarios (base, adverse and severely adverse) and publish a summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario. On October 20, 2016, Comerica released the results of its company-run mid-year stress tests. Stress test results are available in the Investor Relations section of Comerica's website at investor.comerica.com, on the “Regulatory Disclosures” page under "Financial Reports."

Enhanced Prudential Requirements.  The Dodd-Frank Act created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) to coordinate efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns and to make recommendations to the FRB as to enhanced prudential standards that must apply to large, interconnected bank holding companies and nonbank financial companies supervised by the FRB under the Dodd-Frank Act, including capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements.

On February 18, 2014, the FRB issued its final regulations to implement the enhanced prudential and supervisory requirements mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final regulations address enhanced risk-based capital and leverage requirements, enhanced liquidity requirements, enhanced risk management and risk committee requirements, single-counterparty credit limits, semiannual stress tests (as described above under "Annual Capital Plans and Stress Tests"), and a debt-to-equity limit for companies determined to pose a grave threat to financial stability. They are intended to allow regulators to more effectively supervise large bank holding companies and nonbank financial firms whose failure could impact the stability of the US financial system, and generally build on existing US and international regulatory guidance. The rule also takes a multi-stage or phased approach to many of the requirements (such as the capital and liquidity requirements). Most of these requirements apply to Comerica because it has consolidated assets of more than $50 billion. Comerica has or will implement all requirements of the new rules within regulatory timelines.

Resolution (Living Will) Plans.  Section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more (“covered companies”) to prepare and submit to the federal banking agencies (e.g., FRB









and FDIC) a plan for their rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Covered companies, such as Comerica, with less than $100 billion in total nonbank assets were required to submit their initial plans by December 31, 2013. In addition, Section 165(d) requires FDIC-insured depository institutions (like Comerica Bank) with assets of $50 billion or more to develop, maintain, and periodically submit plans outlining how the FDIC would resolve it through the FDIC's resolution powers under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The federal banking agencies have issued rules to implement these requirements. In addition, those rules require the filing of annual updates to the plans. Both Comerica and Comerica Bank filed their respective initial and updated resolution plans by the required due dates, and will submit their 2017 resolution plans prior to December 31, 2017.

Section 611 and Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Section 611 of the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits a state bank from engaging in derivative transactions unless the lending limit laws of the state in which the bank is chartered take into consideration exposure to derivatives. Section 611 does not provide how state lending limit laws must factor in derivatives. The Texas Finance Commission has adopted an administrative rule meeting the requirements of Section 611. Comerica Bank's policy is designed to comply with the Texas rule. Accordingly, Comerica Bank may engage in derivative transactions, as permitted by applicable law.

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a comprehensive framework for over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives transactions. The structure for derivatives set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act is intended to promote, among other things, exchange trading and centralized clearing of swaps and security-based swaps, as well as greater transparency in the derivatives markets and enhanced monitoring of the entities that use these markets. In this regard, the CFTC and SEC have issued several regulatory proposals, some of which are now effective or will become effective in 2017. Most of the requirements did not impact Comerica since the Bank does not meet the definition of swap dealer nor is it a “major swap participant.”

On October 13, 2016, the CFTC issued an Order setting thede minimisthreshold at $8 billion through December 31, 2018 with respect to thede minimisexception to the swap dealer definition.  In taking this action, thede minimisthreshold will not decrease to $3 billion on December 31, 2017, as initially proposed.  At this time, Comerica will continue to track its dealing activity.

The  variation margin requirements for non-centrally cleared swaps and security-based swaps are effective for Comerica on March 31, 2017.  The variation margin requirements were issued for the purpose of ensuring safety and soundness of swap trading in light of the risk to the financial system associated with non-cleared swaps activity.  Comerica is currently working toward meeting compliance with the variation margin requirements.

Consumer Finance Regulations.  The Dodd-Frank Act made several changes to consumer finance laws and regulations. It contained provisions that have weakened the federal preemption rules applicable for national banks and give state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB“), which has a broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices, and possesses examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. In this regard, the CFPB has commenced issuing several new rules to implement various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that were specifically identified as being enforced by the CFPB, as well as those specified for supervisory and enforcement authority for very large depository institutions and non-depository (nonbank) entities. Comerica is subject to CFPB foreign remittance rules and home mortgage lending rules, in addition to certain other CFPB rules.

The foreign remittance rules fall under Section 1073 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The CFPB issued new regulations amending Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, effective October 28, 2013. The regulations were designed to provide protections to consumers who transfer funds to recipients located in countries outside the United States (customer foreign remittance transfers). In general, the regulation requires remittance transfer providers, such as Comerica, to disclose to a consumer the exchange rate, fees, and amount to be received by the recipient when the consumer sends a remittance transfer. Although Comerica had implemented the model disclosures provided in Appendix A to the final rule, on September 18, 2014, the CFPB extended the compliance exception period for the rule's new disclosure requirements to July 21, 2020.

On October 5, 2016, effective October 1, 2017, the CFPB issued final regulations establishing new consumer protections and disclosure requirements on prepaid accounts. The final rule’s definition of prepaid accounts specifically includes payroll card accounts and government benefit accounts. It also includes cards that are not linked to a deposit account to conduct person-to- person (P2P) transfers.  The regulations include (i) the provision of either periodic statements or free online account information access; (ii) new account error and unauthorized transaction rights; (iii) new “Know Before You Choose” prepaid account disclosures; (iv) public disclosure of account agreements for prepaid accounts and (v) credit protection for linked credit accounts. Additionally, the final rule regulates overdraft credit features that may be offered in conjunction with prepaid accounts.

Comerica has positioned itself to be in compliance with the new requirements.

Truth in Lending Act (“TILA”) and Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (“RESPA”).  In November 2013, the CFPB issued a rule implementing new TILA RESPA Integrated Disclosures (“TRID”) to replace the initial Truth-in-Lending disclosure and Good Faith Estimate for most closed-end consumer mortgage loans. The effective date was October 3, 2015. Significant









changes in TRID include: (1) expansion of the scope of loans that require RESPA early disclosures, including bridge loans, vacant land loans, and construction loans; (2) changes and additions to “waiting period” requirements to close a loan; (3) reduced tolerances for estimated fees and (4) the lender, rather than the closing agent, is responsible for providing final disclosures. Although Comerica outsources most of its consumer mortgage loans, consumer construction financing has been suspended. This regulation has also resulted in a suspension of consumer bridge loan financing. Such financing has not been a significant business for Comerica.

Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA), Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) and Uniform Residential Loan Application (URLA).  A revised and redesigned URLA was approved by the CFPB on September 23, 2016. The official approval expands the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act information about Ethnicity and Race that can be collected from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017. Regulation C, as amended by the final rule published in the Federal Register at 80 FR 66127 on October 28, 2015 (2015 HMDA final rule), will require financial institutions to permit applicants to self-identify using disaggregated ethnic and racial categories beginning January 1, 2018 in conformance with the 2016 URLA. Most consumer-purpose transactions, including closed-end home-equity loans, home-equity lines of credit and reverse mortgages, are subject to the regulation. Most commercial-purpose transactions (i.e., loans or lines of credit not for personal, family, or household purposes) are subject to the regulation only if they are for the purpose of home purchase, home improvement, or refinancing. The final rule excludes from coverage home improvement loans that are not secured by a dwelling (i.e., home improvement loans that are unsecured or that are secured by some other type of collateral) and all agricultural-purpose loans and lines of credit. Comerica is monitoring and implementing changes as required.

FDIC Guidance on Brokered Deposits.  On January 5, 2015, the FDIC issued guidance in the form of “Frequently Asked Questions” to promote consistency by insured depository institutions in identifying, accepting, and reporting brokered deposits.   On November 13, 2015, the FDIC issued proposed updates to the FAQs.  All insured depository institutions (including those that are well capitalized) must report brokered deposits in their Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Reports).  Comerica has evaluated the impact of these FAQs, including the proposed updates, to various business units throughout the organization. The FAQs had only a nominal impact.

Flood Insurance Reform.The Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (“Biggert-Waters Act”), as amended by the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014, modified the National Flood Insurance Program by: (i) increasing the maximum civil penalty for Flood Disaster Protection Act violations to $2,000 and eliminating the annual penalty cap; (ii) requiring certain lenders (including Comerica) to escrow premiums and fees for flood insurance on residential improved real estate; (iii) directing lenders to accept private flood insurance and to notify borrowers of its availability; (iv) amending the force placement requirement provisions; and (v) permitting lenders to charge borrowers costs for lapses in or insufficient coverage. These requirements will impact Comerica loans and extensions of credit secured with residential improved real estate. The civil penalty and force placed insurance provisions were effective immediately.  The escrow provisions became effective on January 1, 2016.

On October 31, 2016, the federal agencies issued a Joint Notice of Proposed Rulemaking concerning the private flood insurance rules with request for additional public comments due on January 6, 2017. Comerica will continue to monitor the development and implementation of the private flood insurance rules.



Future Legislation and Regulatory Measures

The environment in which financial institutions have operated since the financial crisis, including legislative and regulatory changes affecting capital, liquidity, supervision, permissible activities, corporate governance and compensation, and changes in fiscal policy, may have long-term effects on the business model and profitability of financial institutions that cannot be foreseen. Further, it is too soon for Comerica to predict what legislative or regulatory changes may occur as a result of the recent change in the U.S. presidential administration, or, if changes occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or results of operations of Comerica.

UNDERWRITING APPROACH

The loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, so proper loan underwriting is critical to Comerica's long-term financial success. Comerica extends credit to businesses, individuals and public entities based on sound lending principles and consistent with prudent banking practice. During the loan underwriting process, a qualitative and quantitative analysis of potential credit facilities is performed, and the credit risks associated with each relationship are evaluated. Important factors considered as part of the underwriting process for new loans and loan renewals include:

•People: Including the competence, integrity and succession planning of customers.

•Purpose: The legal, logical and productive purposes of the credit facility.

•Payment: Including the source, timing and probability of payment.









•Protection: Including obtaining alternative sources of repayment, securing the loan, as appropriate, with collateral and/or third-party guarantees and ensuring appropriate legal documentation is obtained.

•Perspective: The risk/reward relationship and pricing elements (cost of funds; servicing costs; time value of money; credit risk).

Comerica prices credit facilities to reflect risk, the related costs and the expected return, while maintaining competitiveness with other financial institutions. Loans with variable and fixed rates are underwritten to achieve expected risk-adjusted returns on the credit facilities and for the full relationship including the borrower's ability to repay the principal and interest based on such rates.

Credit Administration

Comerica maintains a Credit Administration Department (“Credit Administration”) which is responsible for the oversight and monitoring of our loan portfolio. Credit Administration assists with underwriting by providing objective financial analysis, including an assessment of the borrower's business model, balance sheet, cash flow and collateral. Each borrower relationship is assigned an internal risk rating by Credit Administration. Further, Credit Administration updates the assigned internal risk rating for every borrower relationship as new information becomes available, either as a result of periodic reviews of the credit quality or as a result of a change in borrower performance. The goal of the internal risk rating framework is to improve Comerica's risk management capability, including its ability to identify and manage changes in the credit risk profile of its portfolio, predict future losses and price the loans appropriately for risk.

Credit Policy

Comerica maintains a comprehensive set of credit policies. Comerica's credit policies provide individual relationship managers, as well as loan committees, approval authorities based on our internal risk rating system and establish maximum exposure limits based on risk ratings and Comerica's legal lending limit. Credit Administration, in conjunction with the businesses units, monitors compliance with the credit policies and modifies the existing policies as necessary. New or modified policies/guidelines require approval by the Strategic Credit Committee, chaired by Comerica's Chief Credit Officer and comprising senior credit, market and risk management executives.

Commercial Loan Portfolio

Commercial loans are underwritten using a comprehensive analysis of the borrower's operations. The underwriting process includes an analysis of some or all of the factors listed below:

•The borrower's business model.

•Periodic review of financial statements including financial statements audited by an independent certified public accountant when appropriate.

•The pro-forma financial condition including financial projections.

•The borrower's sources and uses of funds.

•The borrower's debt service capacity.

•The guarantor's financial strength.

•A comprehensive review of the quality and value of collateral, including independent third-party appraisals of machinery and equipment and commercial real estate, as appropriate, to determine the advance rates.

•Physical inspection of collateral and audits of receivables, as appropriate.

For additional information specific to our Energy loan portfolio, please see the caption, “Energy Lending” on pages F-30 through F-31 of the Financial Section of this report.

Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Loan Portfolio

Comerica's CRE loan portfolio consists of real estate construction and commercial mortgage loans and includes both loans to real estate developers and loans secured by owner-occupied real estate. Comerica's CRE loan underwriting policies are consistent with the approach described above and provide maximum loan-to-value ratios that limit the size of a loan to a maximum percentage of the value of the real estate collateral securing the loan. The loan-to-value percentage varies by the type of collateral and is limited by advance rates established by our regulators. Our loan-to-value limitations are, in certain cases, more restrictive than those required by regulators and are influenced by other risk factors such as the financial strength of the borrower or guarantor, the equity provided to the project and the viability of the project itself. CRE loans generally require cash equity. CRE loans are normally originated with full recourse or limited recourse to all principals and owners. There are limitations to the size of a single project loan and to the aggregate dollar exposure to a single guarantor.









Consumer and Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolios

Comerica's consumer and residential mortgage loans are originated consistent with the underwriting approach described above, but also includes an assessment of each borrower's personal financial condition, including a review of credit reports and related FICO scores (a type of credit score used to assess an applicant's credit risk) and verification of income and assets. Comerica does not originate subprime loans. Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, Comerica defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors. These credit factors include low FICO scores, poor patterns of payment history, high debt-to-income ratios and elevated loan-to-value. We generally consider subprime FICO scores to be those below 620 on a secured basis (excluding loans with cash or near-cash collateral and adequate income to make payments) and below 660 for unsecured loans. Residential mortgage loans retained in the portfolio are largely relationship based. The remaining loans are typically eligible to be sold on the secondary market. Adjustable rate loans are limited to standard conventional loan programs.

EMPLOYEES

As ofDecember 31, 2016, Comerica and its subsidiaries had7,659full-time and490part-time employees.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Comerica maintains an Internet website atwww.comerica.comwhere the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics adopted by Comerica are also available on the Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be made in writing to the Corporate Secretary at Comerica Incorporated, Comerica Bank Tower, 1717 Main Street, MC 6404, Dallas, Texas 75201.

In addition, pursuant to regulations adopted by the FRB, Comerica makes additional regulatory capital-related disclosures. Under these regulations, Comerica satisfies a portion of these requirements through postings on its website, and Comerica has done so and expects to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the SEC.

Where we have included web addresses in this report, such as our web address and the web address of the SEC, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this report, information on those websites is not part hereof.



