Item 1. Business.

GENERAL

Comerica Incorporated (“Comerica”) is a financial services company, incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, and headquartered in Dallas, Texas. Based on total assets as reported in the most recently filed Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies (FR Y-9C), it was among the 25 largest commercial United States (“U.S.”) financial holding companies. Comerica was formed in 1973 to acquire the outstanding common stock of Comerica Bank, which at such time was a Michigan banking corporation and one of Michigan's oldest banks (formerly Comerica Bank-Detroit). On October 31, 2007, Comerica Bank, a Michigan banking corporation, was merged with and into Comerica Bank, a Texas banking association (“Comerica Bank”). As ofDecember 31, 2017, Comerica owned directly or indirectly all the outstanding common stock of2active banking and39non-banking subsidiaries. AtDecember 31, 2017, Comerica had total assets of approximately$71.6 billion, total deposits of approximately$57.9 billion, total loans (net of unearned income) of approximately$49.2 billionand shareholders’ equity of approximately$8.0 billion.

Business Segments

Comerica has strategically aligned its operations into three major business segments: the Business Bank, the Retail Bank, and Wealth Management. In addition to the three major business segments, Finance is also reported as a segment. We provide information about our business segments and the principal products and services provided by these segments in Note 23 on pages F-97 through F-101 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located in the Financial Section of this report.

Comerica operates in three primary geographic markets - Texas, California, and Michigan, as well as in Arizona and Florida, with select businesses operating in several other states, and in Canada and Mexico. We provide information about our market segments in Note 23 on pages F-97 through F-101 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located in the Financial Section of this report.

Activities with customers domiciled outside the U.S., in total or with any individual country, are not significant. We provide information on risks attendant to foreign operations: (1) under the caption “Concentration of Credit Risk” on pages F-25 through F-26 of the Financial Section of this report; and (2) under the caption "International Exposure" on page F-28 of the Financial Section of this report.

We provide information about the net interest income and noninterest income we received from our various classes of products and services: (1) under the caption, “Analysis of Net Interest Income” on page F-6 of the Financial Section of this report; (2) under the caption “Net Interest Income” on page F-7 of the Financial Section of this report; and (3) under the caption “Noninterest Income” on pages F-8 through F-9 of the Financial Section of this report.

COMPETITION

The financial services business is highly competitive. Comerica and its subsidiaries mainly compete in their three primary geographic markets of Texas, California and Michigan, as well as in the states of Arizona and Florida. They also compete in broader, national geographic markets, as well as markets in Mexico and Canada. They are subject to competition with respect to various products and services, including, without limitation, loans and lines of credit, deposits, cash management, capital market products, international trade finance, letters of credit, foreign exchange management services, loan syndication services, consumer lending, consumer deposit gathering, mortgage loan origination, consumer products, fiduciary services, private banking, retirement services, investment management and advisory services, investment banking services, brokerage services, the sale of annuity products, and the sale of life, disability and long-term care insurance products.

Comerica competes in terms of products and pricing with large national and regional financial institutions and with smaller financial institutions. Some of Comerica's larger competitors, including certain nationwide banks that have a significant presence in Comerica's market area, may make available to their customers a broader array of product, pricing and structure alternatives and, due to their asset size, may more easily absorb credit losses in a larger overall portfolio. Some of Comerica's competitors (larger or smaller) may have more liberal lending policies and processes. Increasingly, Comerica competes with other companies based on financial technology and capabilities, such as mobile banking applications and money movement. Further, Comerica's banking competitors may be subject to a significantly different or reduced degree of regulation due to their asset size or types of products offered. They may also have the ability to more efficiently utilize resources to comply with regulations or may be able to more effectively absorb the costs of regulations into their existing cost structure. Comerica believes that the level of competition in all geographic markets will continue to increase in the future.

In addition to banks, Comerica's banking subsidiaries also face competition from other financial intermediaries, including savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, leasing companies, venture capital funds, credit unions, investment banks, insurance companies and securities firms. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase as technology advances have lowered the barriers to entry for financial technology companies, with consumers having









the opportunity to select from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives, including crowdfunding, digital wallets and money transfer services. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to many of the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures.

In addition, the industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The FRB supervises non-banking activities conducted by companies directly and indirectly owned by Comerica. In addition, Comerica's non-banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various state, federal and self-regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs of the State of Michigan and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ("MSRB") (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc.); the Department of Insurance and Financial Services of the State of Michigan (in the case of Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.); the DOL (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and Comerica Insurance Services, Inc.); and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) (in the case of Comerica Securities, Inc. and World Asset Management, Inc.).

Both the scope of the laws and regulations and intensity of supervision to which our business is subject have increased in recent years, in response to the financial crisis as well as other factors such as technological and market changes. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") and its implementing regulations, most of which are now in place. President Trump has issued an executive order that sets forth principles for the reform of the federal financial regulatory framework, and the Republican majority in Congress has also suggested an agenda for financial regulatory change. It is too early to assess whether there will be any major changes in the regulatory environment or merely a rebalancing of the post-financial crisis framework. Accordingly, Comerica expects that its business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision.

Described below are material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Comerica and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business of Comerica and its subsidiaries.

Requirements for Approval of Activities and Acquisitions

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expanded the activities in which a bank holding company registered as a financial holding company can engage. Comerica became a financial holding company in 2000. As a financial holding company, Comerica may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies, and engage in activities that are financial in nature. Activities that are “financial in nature” include, but are not limited to: securities underwriting; securities dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies (subject to regulatory requirements described below); insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the FRB has determined to be financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial activity, provided that it does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of the depository institution or the financial system generally.









The conditions to be a financial holding company include, among others, the requirement that each depository institution subsidiary of the holding company be well capitalized and well managed. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the well capitalized and well managed standards to be met at the financial holding company level. Comerica, Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, are each “well capitalized” and “well managed” under FRB standards. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to cease being “well capitalized” or “well managed” under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB could place limitations on Comerica's ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies or impose limitations or conditions on the conduct or activities of Comerica or its affiliates. If the deficiencies persisted, the FRB could order Comerica to divest any subsidiary bank or to cease engaging in any activities permissible for financial holding companies that are not permissible for bank holding companies, or Comerica could elect to conform its non-banking activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company.

In addition, the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”) requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities. Comerica Bank's current rating under the “CRA” is “satisfactory”. If any subsidiary bank of Comerica were to receive a rating under the CRA of less than “satisfactory,” Comerica would be prohibited from engaging in certain activities.

Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions of other depository institutions or bank holding companies. In many cases, no FRB approval is required for Comerica to acquire a company engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior approval is required before Comerica may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company (including a financial holding company) or a bank. Further, the effectiveness of Comerica and its subsidiaries in complying with anti-money laundering regulations (discussed below) is also taken into account by the FRB when considering applications for approval of acquisitions.

Transactions with Affiliates

Data Privacy and Cyber Security Regulation

Comerica is subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures to protect the non-public confidential information of customers and employees. The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including Comerica, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and state level, limit Comerica's ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or to contact customers with marketing offers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also requires banks to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information.

In October 2016, the federal banking regulators issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards, which would apply to a wide range of large financial institutions, including Comerica, and their third-party service providers. The proposed standards would expand existing cybersecurity regulations and guidance to focus on cyber risk governance and management; management of internal and external dependencies; and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. In addition, the proposal contemplates more stringent standards for institutions with systems that are critical to the financial sector. Comerica is monitoring the development of this rule.









Dividends

Comerica is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Most of Comerica's revenues result from dividends its bank subsidiaries pay it. There are statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the payment of dividends by subsidiary banks to Comerica, as well as by Comerica to its shareholders. Certain, but not all, of these requirements are discussed below.

Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association are required by federal law to obtain the prior approval of the FRB and/or the OCC, as the case may be, for the declaration and payment of dividends, if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors of such bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (i) such bank's retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for that year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or to fund the retirement of preferred stock. At January 1,2018, Comerica's subsidiary banks could declare aggregate dividends of approximately$7 millionfrom retained net profits of the preceding two years. Comerica's subsidiary banks declared dividends of$907 millionin2017,$545 millionin2016and$437 millionin2015.

Further, federal regulatory agencies can prohibit a banking institution or bank holding company from engaging in unsafe and unsound banking practices and could prohibit the payment of dividends under circumstances in which such payment could be deemed an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”) “prompt corrective action” regime discussed below, which applies to each of Comerica Bank and Comerica Bank & Trust, National Association, a subject bank is specifically prohibited from paying dividends to its parent company if payment would result in the bank becoming “undercapitalized.” In addition, Comerica Bank is also subject to limitations under Texas state law regarding the amount of earnings that may be paid out as dividends to its parent company, and requiring prior approval for payments of dividends that exceed certain levels.

Additionally, the payment of dividends by Comerica to its shareholders is subject to the non-objection of the FRB pursuant to the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") program, as described below under "Annual Capital Plans and Stress Tests."

Annual Capital Plans and Stress Tests

Comerica is subject to the FRB’s annual CCAR process, as well as the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing ("DFAST") requirements. As part of the CCAR process, the FRB undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of bank holding companies, including Comerica, that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. This capital adequacy assessment is based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted by each participating bank holding company to the FRB that describes the company’s planned capital actions during the nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by both the company tailoring hypothetical macro-economic scenarios that capture the idiosyncratic risks and business of the company and the FRB under different hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory baseline and an adverse and a severely adverse scenario provided by the FRB.

After completing its review, the FRB may object or not object to the company’s proposed capital actions, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends, reinstate or increase common equity repurchase programs, or issue or redeem preferred stock or other regulatory capital instruments. In connection with the 2017 CCAR, Comerica submitted its 2017 capital plan to the FRB on April 4, 2017; on June 22, 2017, Comerica and the FRB released the revenue, loss and capital results from the annual stress testing exercises and on June 28, 2017, Comerica announced that the FRB had completed its CCAR 2017 capital plan review and did not object to the capital plan or capital distributions contemplated in the plan for the four-quarter period commencing in the third quarter 2017 and ending in the second quarter 2018. Comerica plans to submit its CCAR 2018 capital plan to the FRB, consistent with supervisory guidance (SR 15-19), in April 2018 and expects to receive the results of the FRB's review of the plan in June 2018 and to release its company-run stress tests results in June or July 2018.

FRB regulations also required that Comerica and other large bank holding companies conduct a separate mid-year stress test using financial data as of June 30th and three company-derived, idiosyncratic macro-economic scenarios (base, adverse and severely adverse) and publish a summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario. On October 19, 2017, Comerica released the results of its company-run mid-year stress tests. Stress test results are available in the Investor Relations section of Comerica's website at investor.comerica.com, on the “Regulatory Disclosures” page under "Financial Reports."

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act

FDICIA requires, among other things, the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution's capital tier will depend upon where its capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, which, among others, include a Tier 1 and total risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure.









Regulations establishing the specific capital tiers provide that, for a depository institution to be well capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10 percent and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8 percent, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital measure of at least 6.5 percent, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5 percent and not be subject to any specific capital order or directive. For an institution to be adequately capitalized, it must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6 percent, a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital measure of at least 4.5 percent and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4 percent. Under certain circumstances, the appropriate banking agency may treat a well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution as if the institution were in the next lower capital category.

As ofDecember 31, 2017, Comerica and its banking subsidiaries exceeded the ratios required for an institution to be considered “well capitalized” under these regulations.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to limitations on growth and certain activities and are required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution's capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the institution's parent holding company must guarantee for a specific time period that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5 percent of the depository institution's total assets at the time it became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit or implement an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to a number of requirements and restrictions. Specifically, such a depository institution may be required to do one or more of the following, among other things: sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, reduce the interest rates it pays on deposits, reduce its rate of asset growth, dismiss certain senior executive officers or directors, or stop accepting deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator or such other action as the FDIC and the applicable federal banking agency shall determine appropriate.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, FDICIA requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions any such agency supervises. The standards relate generally to, among others, earnings, liquidity, operations and management, asset quality, various risk and management exposures (e.g., credit, operational, market, interest rate, etc.) and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the operations of depository institutions including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for real estate lending, “truth in savings” provisions, the requirement that a depository institution give 90 days prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any branch, and a prohibition on the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not well capitalized or are adequately capitalized and have not received a waiver from the FDIC.

FDIC Insurance Assessments

The FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) provides deposit insurance coverage for certain deposits up to $250,000 per depositor in each deposit account category. Comerica's subsidiary banks are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, where the assessment rates for an insured depository institution are determined by an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each institution poses to the DIF. The assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly and could increase if, for example, criticized loans and/or other higher risk assets increase or balance sheet liquidity decreases. For2017, Comerica’s FDIC insurance expense totaled$51 million, including the surcharge described below.

Effective July 1, 2016, the FDIC issued a final rule in order to implement section 334 of the Dodd-Frank Act ("§334"), which requires the FDIC to (1) raise the minimum reserve ratio for the DIF to 1.35 percent, from 1.15 percent, (2) assess premiums on banks to reach the 1.35 percent goal by September 30, 2020, and (3) offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10 billion. The final rule imposes a surcharge on large banks, to be assessed over a period of eight quarters, as a means to implement §334. Comerica is subject to the surcharge assessment. If this surcharge is insufficient to increase the reserve ratio to 1.35 percent by December 31, 2018, a one-time shortfall assessment will be imposed on institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more on March 31, 2019. Management currently estimates that the surcharge, which began July 1, 2016, will continue at a rate of approximately $6 million per quarter through at least the first quarter of 2018.









Capital and Liquidity

Comerica and its bank subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB and/or the OCC.

Entities that engage in trading activities, whose trading activities exceed specified levels, also are required to maintain capital for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the market value of trading account, foreign exchange, and commodity positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such as changes in the general level of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices) or from position specific factors. From time to time, Comerica's trading activities may exceed specified regulatory levels, in which case Comerica maintains additional capital for market risk as required.

Comerica, like other bank holding companies, currently is required to maintain CET1, Tier 1 (the sum of CET1 and additional Tier 1 capital) and “total capital” (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 4.5 percent, 6 percent and 8 percent of its total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit), respectively. In 2017, Comerica was also required to maintain a minimum capital conservation buffer of 1.250 percent in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses. The minimum required capital conservation buffer gradually increases to 2.5 percent in 2019. AtDecember 31, 2017, Comerica met all requirements, with CET1, Tier 1 and total capital equal to11.68 percent,11.68 percentand13.84 percentof its total risk-weighted assets, respectively, and a capital conservation buffer of5.68 percentof its total risk-weighted assets.

Comerica is also required to maintain a minimum “leverage ratio” (Tier 1 capital to non-risk-adjusted total assets) of 4 percent. Comerica's leverage ratio of10.89 percentatDecember 31, 2017reflects the nature of Comerica's balance sheet and demonstrates a commitment to capital adequacy. AtDecember 31, 2017, Comerica Bank had CET1, Tier 1 and total capital equal to10.72 percent,10.72 percentand12.61 percentof its total risk-weighted assets, respectively, a capital conservation buffer of4.61 percentof its total risk-weighted assets, and a leverage ratio of10.00 percent.

Additional information on the calculation of Comerica and its bank subsidiaries' CET1, Tier 1 capital, total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in the "Capital" section located on pages F-17 through F-19of the Financial Section of this report and Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on pages F-94 through F-95of the Financial Section of this report.

Comerica must also comply with the modified Liquidity Coverage Ratio ("LCR") standard, which requires a financial institution to hold a minimum level of high-quality, liquid assets to fully cover modified net cash outflows under a 30-day systematic liquidity stress scenario. At each quarter-end in 2017, Comerica was in compliance with the fully phased-in LCR requirement of 100%, plus a buffer.

In the second quarter 2016, U.S. banking regulators issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (the "proposed rule") implementing a second quantitative liquidity requirement in the U.S. generally consistent with the Net Stable Funding Ratio ("NSFR") minimum liquidity measure established under the Basel III liquidity framework. Under the proposed rule, Comerica will be subject to a modified NSFR standard, which requires a financial institution to hold a minimum level of available longer-term, stable sources of funding to fully cover a modified amount of required longer-term stable funding, over a one-year period. However, a final NSFR rule has not yet been published by the U.S. regulatory agencies so the effective date of compliance remains unknown. Comerica does not currently expect the proposed rule to have a material impact on its liquidity needs.









Anti-Money Laundering Regulations

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act (“USA PATRIOT Act”) of 2001 and its implementing regulations require insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants. To comply with these obligations, Comerica and its various operating units have implemented appropriate internal practices, procedures, and controls.

Interstate Banking and Branching

Comerica has consolidated the majority of its banking business into one bank, Comerica Bank, with banking centers in Texas, Arizona, California, Florida and Michigan, as well as Canada.

Source of Strength and Cross-Guarantee Requirements

Federal law and FRB regulations require that bank holding companies serve as a source of strength to each subsidiary bank and commit resources to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support without adversely affecting its ability to meet other obligations. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC (either as a result of the failure of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of failure), the other banking subsidiaries may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to certain exceptions.

Enforcement Powers of Federal and State Banking Agencies

The FRB and other federal and state banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including, without limitation, and as prescribed to each agency by applicable law, the power to terminate deposit insurance, impose substantial fines and other civil penalties and appoint a conservator or receiver. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject Comerica or its banking subsidiaries, as well as officers and directors of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potentially substantial civil and criminal penalties.

Incentive-Based Compensation









programs throughout the organization, the individuals covered by each plan and the risks inherent in each plan’s design and implementation. Comerica has determined that risks arising from employee compensation plans are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on Comerica. Further, it is the Company’s intent to continue to evolve our processes going forward by monitoring regulations and best practices for sound incentive compensation.

Supervision and Regulation Assessment

Section 318 of the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the federal banking agencies to assess fees against bank holding companies with total consolidated assets in excess of $50 billion equal to the expenses necessary or appropriate in order to carry out their supervision and regulation of those companies. Comerica expensed $2.1 million for 2017, which will be assessed in the first quarter 2018.

The Volcker Rule

Comerica is prohibited under the Volcker Rule from (1) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for our own account and (2) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds ("Covered Funds"). The final Volcker Rule regulations contain exemptions for market-making, hedging, underwriting and trading in U.S. government and agency obligations, and also permit certain ownership interests in certain types of Covered Funds to be retained. They also permit the offering and sponsoring of Covered Funds under certain conditions.

The final Volcker Rule regulations impose significant compliance and reporting obligations on banking entities. Comerica is subject to the enhanced compliance program under the Volcker Rule but does not expect to be required to report metrics to the regulators. Comerica has put in place the compliance programs required by the Volcker Rule and has either divested or received extensions for any holdings in Covered Funds. Additional information on Comerica's portfolio of indirect (through funds) private equity and venture capital investments, which includes the Covered Funds, is set forth in Note1of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located on page F-48 of the Financial Section of this report.

Resolution (Living Will) Plans

Like other similar bank holding companies with assets at or above the $50 billion threshold, Comerica is required to prepare and submit to the federal banking agencies (e.g., FRB and FDIC) and periodically update a plan for its rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In addition, FDIC-insured depository institutions (like Comerica Bank) with assets of $50 billion or more are required to develop, maintain, and periodically submit plans outlining how the FDIC would resolve it through the FDIC's resolution powers under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Comerica submitted its latest resolution plan to the FRB on December 29, 2017. The next update to the resolution plan for Comerica Bank is due to be filed with the FDIC on or before July 1, 2018.

Derivative Transactions

As a state member bank, Comerica Bank may engage in derivative transactions, as permitted by applicable Texas and federal law.

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a comprehensive framework for over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives transactions. Even though many of the requirements did not impact Comerica directly since Comerica Bank does not meet the definition of swap dealer or “major swap participant,” Comerica continues to review and evaluate whether such requirements impact the Bank indirectly. On October 26, 2017, the CFTC issued an Order extending thede minimisthreshold at $8 billion through December 31, 2019 with respect to thede minimisexception to the swap dealer definition. In taking this action, thede minimisthreshold will not decrease to $3 billion on December 31, 2018, as proposed.  At this time, Comerica will continue to track its dealing activity and monitor any actions as it relates to thede minimisthreshold.









The variation margin requirements for non-centrally cleared swaps and security-based swaps were effective for Comerica on March 1, 2017.  The variation margin requirements were issued for the purpose of ensuring safety and soundness of swap trading in light of the risk to the financial system associated with non-cleared swaps activity.  At this time, Comerica has met compliance with its financial counterparties with respect to the variation margin requirements.

DOL Fiduciary Rule

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Certain Recent Consumer Finance Regulations

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Comerica is subject to regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), which has a broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices, and possesses examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets.

Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Uniform Residential Loan Application. The CFPB has issued final rules changing the reporting requirements for lenders under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. The new rules expand the range of transactions subject to these requirements to include most securitized residential mortgage loans and credit lines. The rules also increase the overall amount of data required to be collected and submitted, including additional data points about the applicable loans and expanded data about the borrowers. Comerica began collecting the expanded data on January 1, 2018.

Flood Insurance Rules

Comerica continues to monitor the development and implementation of the private flood insurance requirements. To date, the joint agencies have yet to issue a final rule with respect to this remaining requirement. All other flood insurance requirements subject to the Final Rule - Loans in Areas Having Special Flood Hazards, including the escrow of premium and fees for certain real estate loans, are now effective and have been implemented by Comerica.

UNDERWRITING APPROACH

The loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, so proper loan underwriting is critical to Comerica's long-term financial success. Comerica extends credit to businesses, individuals and public entities based on sound lending principles and consistent with prudent banking practice. During the loan underwriting process, a qualitative and quantitative analysis of potential credit facilities is performed, and the credit risks associated with each relationship are evaluated. Important factors considered as part of the underwriting process for new loans and loan renewals include:

•People: Including the competence, integrity and succession planning of customers.

•Purpose: The legal, logical and productive purposes of the credit facility.

•Payment: Including the source, timing and probability of payment.

•Protection: Including obtaining alternative sources of repayment, securing the loan, as appropriate, with collateral and/or third-party guarantees and ensuring appropriate legal documentation is obtained.

•Perspective: The risk/reward relationship and pricing elements (cost of funds; servicing costs; time value of money; credit risk).

Comerica prices credit facilities to reflect risk, the related costs and the expected return, while maintaining competitiveness with other financial institutions. Loans with variable and fixed rates are underwritten to achieve expected risk-adjusted returns on the credit facilities and for the full relationship including the borrower's ability to repay the principal and interest based on such rates.









Credit Administration

Comerica maintains a Credit Administration Department (“Credit Administration”) which is responsible for the oversight and monitoring of our loan portfolio. Credit Administration assists with underwriting by providing objective financial analysis, including an assessment of the borrower's business model, balance sheet, cash flow and collateral. Each borrower relationship is assigned an internal risk rating by Credit Administration. Further, Credit Administration updates the assigned internal risk rating for every borrower relationship as new information becomes available, either as a result of periodic reviews of the credit quality or as a result of a change in borrower performance. The goal of the internal risk rating framework is to support Comerica's risk management capability, including its ability to identify and manage changes in the credit risk profile of its portfolio, predict future losses and price the loans appropriately for risk.

Credit Policy

Comerica maintains a comprehensive set of credit policies. Comerica's credit policies provide individual relationship managers, as well as loan committees, approval authorities based on our internal risk rating system and establish maximum exposure limits based on risk ratings and Comerica's legal lending limit. Credit Administration, in conjunction with the businesses units, monitors compliance with the credit policies and modifies the existing policies as necessary. New or modified policies/guidelines require approval by the Strategic Credit Committee, chaired by Comerica's Chief Credit Officer and comprising senior credit, market and risk management executives.

Commercial Loan Portfolio

Commercial loans are underwritten using a comprehensive analysis of the borrower's operations. The underwriting process includes an analysis of some or all of the factors listed below:

•The borrower's business model.

•Periodic review of financial statements including financial statements audited by an independent certified public accountant when appropriate.

•The pro-forma financial condition including financial projections.

•The borrower's sources and uses of funds.

•The borrower's debt service capacity.

•The guarantor's financial strength.

•A comprehensive review of the quality and value of collateral, including independent third-party appraisals of machinery and equipment and commercial real estate, as appropriate, to determine the advance rates.

•Physical inspection of collateral and audits of receivables, as appropriate.

For additional information specific to our Energy loan portfolio, please see the caption, “Energy Lending” on pages F-27 through F-28 of the Financial Section of this report.

Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Loan Portfolio

Comerica's CRE loan portfolio consists of real estate construction and commercial mortgage loans and includes both loans to real estate developers and loans secured by owner-occupied real estate. Comerica's CRE loan underwriting policies are consistent with the approach described above and provide maximum loan-to-value ratios that limit the size of a loan to a maximum percentage of the value of the real estate collateral securing the loan. The loan-to-value percentage varies by the type of collateral and is limited by advance rates established by our regulators. Our loan-to-value limitations are, in certain cases, more restrictive than those required by regulators and are influenced by other risk factors such as the financial strength of the borrower or guarantor, the equity provided to the project and the viability of the project itself. CRE loans generally require cash equity. CRE loans are normally originated with full recourse or limited recourse to all principals and owners. There are limitations to the size of a single project loan and to the aggregate dollar exposure to a single guarantor.

Consumer and Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolios

Comerica's consumer and residential mortgage loans are originated consistent with the underwriting approach described above, but also includes an assessment of each borrower's personal financial condition, including a review of credit reports and related FICO scores (a type of credit score used to assess an applicant's credit risk) and verification of income and assets. Comerica does not originate subprime loans. Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, Comerica defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors. These credit factors include low FICO scores, poor patterns of payment history, high debt-to-income ratios and elevated loan-to-value. We generally consider subprime FICO scores to be those below 620 on a secured basis (excluding loans with cash or near-cash collateral and adequate income to make payments) and below 660 for









unsecured loans. Residential mortgage loans retained in the portfolio are largely relationship based. The remaining loans are typically eligible to be sold on the secondary market. Adjustable rate loans are limited to standard conventional loan programs.

EMPLOYEES

As ofDecember 31, 2017, Comerica and its subsidiaries had7,691full-time and499part-time employees.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Comerica maintains an Internet website atwww.comerica.comwhere the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics adopted by Comerica are also available on the Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be made in writing to the Corporate Secretary at Comerica Incorporated, Comerica Bank Tower, 1717 Main Street, MC 6404, Dallas, Texas 75201.

In addition, pursuant to regulations adopted by the FRB, Comerica makes additional regulatory capital-related disclosures. Under these regulations, Comerica satisfies a portion of these requirements through postings on its website, and Comerica has done so and expects to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the SEC.

Where we have included web addresses in this report, such as our web address and the web address of the SEC, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this report, information on those websites is not part hereof.



