Item 1A.  Risk Factors



Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995



This report contains forward-looking information that involves risks and uncertainties.  Our forward-looking statements express our current expectations or forecasts of possible future results or events, including projections of earnings and other financial performance measures, statements of management’s expectations regarding our plans and objectives and industry, general economic and other forecasts of trends, future dividend payments, share repurchases and other matters.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this filing, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise such statements to reflect new circumstances or unanticipated events as they occur.  You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historic or current facts and often use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “will likely result,” “outlook,” “project,” “may,” “can,” “plan,” “target,” “potential,” “should” and other words and expressions of similar meaning.



No assurance can be given that the expected results in any forward-looking statement will be achieved, and actual results may differ materially due to one or more factors.  For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.



Risk Factors



Certain factors that may affect our business and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement include the following:



The demand for our swimming pool, irrigation, landscape and related outdoor living products may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions.





We believe that homeowners’ access to consumer credit is a critical factor enabling the purchase of new pools, irrigation systems and outdoor living products.  Between late 2006 and early 2010, the unfavorable economic conditions and downturn in the housing market resulted in significant tightening of credit markets, which limited the ability of consumers to access financing for new swimming pools and irrigation systems.  Although we have seen improvement since 2010, tightening consumer credit could prevent consumers from obtaining financing for pool, irrigation and related outdoor projects, which could negatively impact our sales of construction-related products.








We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions.



Given the nature of our business, weather is one of the principal external factors affecting our business and the effect of seasonality has a significant impact on our results.  In 2019, we generated approximately 63% of our net sales and 81% of our operating income in the second and third quarters of the year.  These quarters represent the peak months of swimming pool use, pool and irrigation installation and remodeling and repair activities.  Unseasonably late warming trends in the spring or early cooling trends in the fall can shorten the length of the pool season.  Also, unseasonably cool weather or extraordinary rainfall during the peak season can have an adverse impact on demand due to decreased swimming pool use, installation and maintenance, as well as decreased irrigation installations.  While warmer weather conditions favorably impact our sales, global warming trends and other significant climate changes can create more variability in the short term or lead to other unfavorable weather conditions that could adversely impact our sales or operations.  Drought conditions or water management initiatives may lead to municipal ordinances related to water use restrictions.  Such restrictions could result in decreased pool and irrigation system installations which could negatively impact our sales.



Certain extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, may impact our ability to deliver our services or cause damage to our facilities.  As a consequence of these or other catastrophic or uncharacteristic events, we may experience interruption to our operations, increased costs or losses of property, equipment or inventory, which would adversely affect our revenue and profitability.



For a discussion regarding seasonality and weather, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations,” of this Form 10-K.



Our distribution business is highly dependent on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with suppliers.



As a distribution company, maintaining favorable relationships with our suppliers is critical to our success.  We believe that we add considerable value to the swimming pool and irrigation supply chains by purchasing products from a large number of manufacturers and distributing the products to a highly fragmented customer base on conditions that are more favorable than these customers could obtain on their own.  We believe that we currently enjoy good relationships with our suppliers, who generally offer us competitive pricing, return policies and promotional allowances.  However, any failure to maintain favorable relationships with our suppliers could have an adverse effect on our business.



Our largest suppliers are Pentair plc, Hayward Pool Products, Inc. and Zodiac Pool Systems, Inc., which accounted for approximately 20%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of the costs of products we sold in 2019.  A decision by our largest suppliers, acting individually or in concert, to sell their products directly to retailers or other end users of their products, bypassing distribution companies like ours, would have an adverse effect on our business.  Additionally, if our suppliers experience difficulties or disruptions in their operations or if we lose a single significant supplier due to financial failure or a decision to sell exclusively to retailers or end-use consumers, we may experience increased supply costs or may experience delays in establishing replacement supply sources that meet our quality and control standards.



We depend on a global network of suppliers to source our products, including our own branded products and products we have exclusive distribution rights to.  Product quality, warranty claims or safety concerns could negatively impact our sales and expose us to litigation.



We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with the products we distribute.  As we increase the number of Pool Corporation and Pool Systems Pty. Ltd. branded products we distribute, our exposure to potential liability claims may increase.  Product and service quality issues could negatively impact customer confidence in our brands and our business.  If our product and service offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or our customers’ expectations regarding safety or quality, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal, financial and reputational risks, as well as governmental enforcement actions.  Actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including health-related concerns, could expose us to litigation, as well as government enforcement actions, and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities.








We face intense competition both from within our industry and from other leisure product alternatives.



Within our industry, we directly compete against various regional and local distributors as they compete against our customers for the business of pool owners and other end-use customers.  We indirectly compete against mass market retailers and large pool or irrigation supply retailers as they purchase the great majority of their needs directly from manufacturers, and to a lesser extent with internet retailers, as they purchase the majority of their needs from distributors.  Outside of our industry, we compete indirectly with alternative suppliers of big ticket consumer discretionary products, such as boat and motor home distributors, and with other companies who rely on discretionary homeowner expenditures, such as home remodelers.  New competitors may emerge as there are low barriers to entry in our industry, which has led to highly competitive markets consisting of various-sized entities, ranging from small or local operators to large regional businesses.  Given the density and demand for pool products, some geographic markets that we serve also tend to have a higher concentration of competitors than others, particularly California, Texas, Florida and Arizona.  These states encompass our four largest markets and represented approximately 52% of our net sales in 2019.



More aggressive competition by store- and internet-based mass merchants and large pool or irrigation supply retailers could adversely affect our sales.



Mass market retailers today carry a limited range of, and devote a limited amount of shelf space to, merchandise and products targeted to our industry.  Historically, mass market retailers have generally expanded by adding new stores and product breadth, but their product offering of pool and irrigation related products has remained relatively constant.  Should store‑ and internet-based mass market retailers increase their focus on the pool or irrigation industries, or increase the breadth of their pool and irrigation and related product offerings, they may become a more significant competitor for our direct customers and end-use consumers, which could have an adverse impact on our business.  We may face additional competitive pressures if large pool or irrigation supply retailers look to expand their customer base to compete more directly within the distribution channel.



We depend on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified personnel.



We consider our employees to be the foundation for our growth and success.  As such, our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.  This includes succession planning related to our executive officers and key management personnel.  If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our operating results could be adversely affected.



Past growth may not be indicative of future growth.



Historically, we have experienced substantial sales growth through organic market share gains, new sales center openings and acquisitions that have increased our size, scope and geographic distribution.  Our various business strategies and initiatives, including our growth initiatives, are subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control.  While we contemplate continued growth through internal expansion and acquisitions, no assurance can be made as to our ability to:



•penetrate new markets;

•generate sufficient cash flows to support expansion plans and general operating activities;

•obtain financing;

•identify appropriate acquisition candidates and successfully integrate acquired businesses;

•maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships; and

•identify and divest assets which do not continue to create value consistent with our objectives.



If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected.








The nature of our business subjects us to compliance with employment, environmental, health, transportation, safety and other governmental regulations.



We are subject to regulation under federal, state, local and international employment, environmental, health, transportation and safety requirements, which govern such things as packaging, labeling, handling, transportation, storage and sale of chemicals and fertilizers.  For example, we sell algaecides and pest control products that are regulated as pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and various state pesticide laws.  These laws primarily relate to labeling, annual registration and licensing.



Management has processes in place to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements.  However, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in investigations, the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal fines, damages, seizures, disgorgements, penalties or the imposition of injunctive relief.  Moreover, compliance with such laws and regulations in the future could prove to be costly.  Although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to regulatory matters in amounts that may be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future.  These laws and regulations have changed substantially and rapidly over the last 25 years and we anticipate that there will be continuing changes.



The clear trend in environmental, health, transportation and safety regulations is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that impact the environment, such as the use and handling of chemicals.  Increasingly, strict restrictions and limitations have resulted in higher operating costs for us and it is possible that the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations will continue to increase.  Our attempts to anticipate future regulatory requirements that might be imposed and our plans to remain in compliance with changing regulations and to minimize the costs of such compliance may not be as effective as we anticipate.



We store chemicals, fertilizers and other combustible materials that involve fire, safety and casualty risks.



We store chemicals and fertilizers, including certain combustibles and oxidizing compounds, at our sales centers.  A fire, explosion or flood affecting one of our facilities could give rise to fire, safety and casualty losses and related liability claims.  We maintain what we believe is prudent insurance protection.  However, we cannot guarantee that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable.  Successful claims for which we are not fully insured may adversely affect our working capital and profitability.  In addition, changes in the insurance industry have generally led to higher insurance costs and decreased availability of coverage.



We conduct business internationally, which exposes us to additional risks.



Our ability to successfully conduct operations in, and source products and materials from, international markets is affected by many of the same risks we face in our U.S. operations, as well as unique costs and difficulties of managing international operations.  Our international operations, which accounted for 9% of our total net sales in 2019, expose us to certain additional risks, including:



•difficulty in staffing international subsidiary operations;

•different political economic and regulatory conditions;

•local laws and customs;

•currency fluctuations;

•adverse tax consequences; and

•dependence on other economies.



For foreign-sourced products, we may be subject to certain trade restrictions that would prevent us from obtaining products.  There is also a greater risk that we may not be able to access products in a timely and efficient manner.  Fluctuations in other factors relating to international trade, such as tariffs, transportation costs and inflation are additional risks for our international operations.








Changes in tax laws and accounting standards related to tax matters have caused, and may in the future cause, fluctuations in our effective tax rate.



Taxation and tax policy changes, tax rate changes, new tax laws, revised tax law interpretations and changes in accounting standards and guidance related to tax matters may cause fluctuations in our effective tax rate.  Our effective tax rate may also be impacted by changes in the geographic mix of our earnings.



In the first quarter of 2017, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-09,Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, on a prospective basis.  Our projections of financial statement impacts related to ASU 2016-09 are subject to several assumptions which can vary significantly, including our estimated share price and the period that our employees will exercise vested stock options.  Excess tax benefits or deficiencies recognized under ASU 2016-09 vary from quarter to quarter and past results may not be indicative of future results.



We rely on information technology systems to support our business operations.  A significant disturbance or breach of our technological infrastructure could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, failure to maintain the security of confidential information could damage our reputation and expose us to litigation.



Information technology supports several aspects of our business,including among others, product sourcing, pricing, customer service, transaction processing, financial reporting, collections and cost management.  Our ability to operate effectively on a day-to-day basis and accurately report our results depends on a solid technological infrastructure, which is inherently susceptible to internal and external threats.  We are vulnerable to interruption by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunication failures, internet failures, security breaches and other catastrophic events.  Exposure to various types of cyber-attacks such as malware, computer viruses, worms or other malicious acts, as well as human error, could also potentially disrupt our operations or result in a significant interruption in the delivery of our goods and services.



Advances in computer and software capabilities, encryption technology and other discoveries increase the complexity of our technological environment, including how each interact with our various software platforms.  Such advances could delay or hinder our ability to process transactions or could compromise the integrity of our data, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  We also may experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our information systems unavailable or slow to respond, including the interaction of our information systems with those of third parties.  A lack of sophistication or reliability of our information systems could adversely impact our operations and customer service and could require major repairs or replacements, resulting in significant costs and foregone revenue.



Our numerous procedures and protocols designed to mitigate cybersecurity risks (including processes to timely notify appropriate personnel for assessment and resolution and company-wide training programs), our investments in information technology security and our updates to our business continuity plan may not prevent or effectively mitigate adverse consequences from cybersecurity risks.  The failure to maintain security over and prevent unauthorized access to our data, our customers’ personal information, including credit card information, or data belonging to our suppliers, could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Such a breach could result in damage to our reputation and subject us to potential litigation, liability, fines and penalties, resulting in a possible material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.



We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method in which LIBOR is determined.



Borrowings under our unsecured syndicated senior credit facility, term facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and our derivatives instruments are indexed to the London Inter-bank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”).  In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the regulatory authority over LIBOR) stated they will plan for a phase out of regulatory oversight of LIBOR after 2021 to allow for an orderly transition to an alternative reference rate.  Although the full impact of the transition away from LIBOR, including the discontinuance of LIBOR publication and the adoption of a replacement rate for LIBOR, remains unclear, these changes may have an adverse impact on our financing costs and any floating rate indebtedness we may incur.



A terrorist attack or the threat of a terrorist attack could have a material adverse effect on our business.



Discretionary spending on leisure product offerings such as ours is generally adversely affected during times of economic or political uncertainty.  The potential for terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility could create these types of uncertainties and negatively impact our business for the short or long term in ways that cannot presently be predicted.










