Item 1.Business

This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements relate
to future periods, future events or our future operating or financial plans or performance. These statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "expects,"
"believes," "intends," "anticipates," "estimates," "plans," "may," or "will," or the negative of these terms, and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include statements as
to:

•

the discovery, development, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of our compounds and
our product candidates;

•

focus on our drug discovery and development
efforts;

•

conducting clinical trials internally, with collaborators, or with clinical research
organizations;

•

our collaboration and strategic relationship strategy; anticipated benefits and disadvantages of
entering into collaboration agreements;

•

our licensing, investment and commercialization
strategies;

•

the regulatory approval process, including determinations to seek U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and other international health authorities approval for, and plans to commercialize, our products in the United States and abroad;

•

the safety, effectiveness and potential benefits and indications of our product candidates and
other compounds under development; potential uses for our product candidates and our other compounds;

•

the timing and size of our clinical trials; the compounds expected to enter clinical trials;
timing of clinical trial results;

•

our ability to manage expansion of our drug discovery and development
operations;

•

future required expertise relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and
marketing;

•

obtaining and terminating licenses to products, compounds or technology, or other intellectual
property rights;

•

the receipt from or payments pursuant to collaboration or license agreements resulting from
milestones or royalties; the decrease in revenues from our information product-related activities;

•

plans to develop and commercialize products on our
own;

•

plans to use third party manufacturers;

•

expected expenses and expenditure levels; expected uses of cash; expected revenues and sources of
revenues;

•

expected losses; fluctuation of losses;

•

our profitability; the adequacy of our capital resources to continue
operations;

•

the need to raise additional capital;

•

the costs associated with resolving matters in
litigation;

•

our expectations regarding competition;

•

our investments, including anticipated expenditures, losses and
expenses;

•

our patent prosecution and maintenance efforts;
and

•

our indebtedness, and debt service obligations.









These forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events, are based on assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and include, but are not limited to:

•

our ability to discover, develop, formulate, manufacture and commercialize a drug candidate or
product;

•

the risk of unanticipated delays in research and development
efforts;

•

the risk that previous preclinical testing or clinical trial results are not necessarily
indicative of future clinical trial results;

•

risks relating to the conduct of our clinical
trials;

•

changing regulatory requirements;

•

the risk of adverse safety findings;

•

the risk that results of our clinical trials do not support submission of a marketing approval
application for our product candidates;

•

the risk of significant delays or costs in obtaining regulatory
approvals;

•

risks relating to our reliance on third party manufacturers, collaborators, and clinical research
organizations;

•

risks relating to the development of new products and their use by us and our current and
potential collaborators;

•

risks relating to our inability to control the development of out-licensed drug
compounds or drug candidates;

•

risks relating to our collaborators' ability to develop and commercialize product
candidates;

•

costs associated with prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims and other
intellectual property rights;

•

our ability to maintain or obtain adequate product liability and other insurance
coverage;

•

the risk that our product candidates may not obtain or maintain regulatory
approval;

•

the impact of technological advances and
competition;

•

the ability to compete against third parties with greater resources than
ours;

•

risks relating to changes in pricing and reimbursements in the markets in which we may
compete;

•

competition to develop and commercialize similar drug
products;

•

our ability to obtain patent protection and freedom to operate for our discoveries and to continue
to be effective in expanding our patent coverage;

•

the impact of changing laws on our patent
portfolio;

•

developments in and expenses relating to
litigation;

•

our ability to in-license potential drug compounds or drug candidates or other
technology;

•

our substantial leverage and limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and incur
liens on our assets imposed by our debt obligations;

•

our ability to obtain additional capital when
needed;

•

fluctuations in net cash used by investing activities;









•our history of operating losses; and•the risks set forth under "Risk Factors."

Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Except as required by federal securities laws, we
undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future.

In this report all references to "Incyte," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" mean Incyte Corporation and our subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the
term means only the parent company.

Incyte is our registered trademark. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Overview

Incyte is a drug discovery and development company focused on developing proprietary small molecule drugs to treat serious unmet
medical needs. We have a broad pipeline with programs focused primarily in the areas of oncology and inflammation. We focus our efforts on clinical programs that we believe have the greatest
likelihood of creating near-and long-term value and on compounds that we believe a company of our size can effectively develop and commercialize on its own, or that we can
further develop and commercialize through strategic relationships.

Our
highest priority programs involve our janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors, which include oral INCB18424 for hematologic and oncology indications and oral INCB28050 for chronic inflammatory
and autoimmune diseases. Oral INCB18424 is in Phase III development as a treatment for myelofibrosis, the most advanced of the myeloproliferative neoplasms, and Phase II development for
two of the other myeloproliferative neoplasms, polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia. We recently established a collaboration for this program with Novartis International
Pharmaceutical Ltd. Novartis received exclusive development and commercialization rights outside of the United States to INCB18424 for hematologic and oncology indications, including all
hematological malignancies, solid tumors and myeloproliferative diseases. We retained exclusive development and commercialization rights to INCB18424 in the United States and in certain other
indications.

Oral
INCB28050 is in Phase II development for rheumatoid arthritis. We recently established a collaboration for this program with Eli Lilly and Company. Lilly received exclusive
worldwide development and commercialization rights to INCB28050. We retained a co-development and co-promotion option. We believe these strategic
relationships increase the likelihood of the successful development and commercialization of these compounds.









Our
pipeline includes the following compounds:

Target/Drug CompoundIndicationDevelopment StatusJAK1/2INCB18424(1)MyelofibrosisPhase IIIINCB18424(1)Polycythemia Vera/Essential ThrombocythemiaPhase IIINCB18424(1)Other Hematologic TumorsPhase I/IIINCB18424(2)PsoriasisPhase IIbINCB28050(3)Rheumatoid ArthritisPhase IIc-METINCB28060(4)Solid CancersPhase ISheddaseINCB7839Breast CancerPhase IIIDOINCB24360OncologyIND ClearedHSD1INCB13739Type 2 DiabetesPhase IIb

(1)We
licensed rights outside the United States to Novartis and retained U.S. rights(2)This
compound is a topical formulation; all others are an oral formulation(3)We
licensed worldwide rights to Lilly and retained a co-development and co-promotion options(4)We
licensed worldwide rights to Novartis and retained a co-development and co-promotion options

Clinical Pipeline

Our pipeline includes compounds in various stages of development, primarily in the areas of oncology and inflammation.

JAK Program for Myeloproliferative Neoplasms, Other Hematologic Malignancies and Cancers, and Inflammation

The JAK family is composed of four tyrosine kinases—JAK1, JAK2, JAK3 and Tyk2—that are involved in signaling
triggered by a number of cytokines and growth factors. JAKs are central to a number of biologic processes, including the formation and development of blood cells and the regulation of immune
functions. Excessive signaling through the JAK pathways is believed to play a critical role in a number of disease states, including myeloproliferative neoplasms and other malignancies and cancers,
and inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis. Myeloproliferative neoplasms are a closely related group of blood diseases that lead to the overproduction of blood cells and/or
to the production of blood cells that do
not function properly. These diseases include myelofibrosis, polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia.









We have discovered multiple potent, selective and orally bioavailable JAK inhibitors that are selective for JAK1 and JAK2 from several distinct chemical
scaffolds. Our lead JAK inhibitor for hematologic and oncology indications, INCB18424, is in Phase III development for myelofibrosis and Phase II development for polycythemia vera and
essential thrombocythemia. It is also in Phase II development as a topical treatment for psoriasis. Our lead JAK inhibitor for inflammation, INCB28050, is currently in Phase II
development as an oral treatment for rheumatoid arthritis.

Myelofibrosis.In July 2009, we obtained a Special Protocol Assessment from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for the
Phase III
registration trial for INCB18424 for myelofibrosis. This Phase III trial is a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, and is expected to include over 90 clinical sites in the United States,
Canada and Australia and approximately 240 patients with primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis, and post-essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis. We began
screening and enrolling patients for this Phase III trial in September 2009.

In
the Phase II trial for myelofibrosis, INCB18424 provided marked and durable reductions in enlarged spleens, a condition known as splenomegaly that affects the majority of these
patients. Patients in this trial treated with INCB18424 also showed clinically meaningful improvements in the symptoms of myelofibrosis, including reductions in fatigue, night sweats, pruritus,
abdominal discomfort, poor appetite and cachexia. These data served as the basis for the clinical design of the Phase III program.

The
primary endpoint in this Phase III trial is the proportion of patients achieving at least 35% reduction in spleen volume, as measured by magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, at
24 weeks. In the ongoing Phase II trial over 50% of these treated patients receiving 15 mg and 25 mg twice-daily doses achieved at least a 50% reduction in palpable spleen length. In our
Phase II trial we also measured spleen volume by MRI in a subset of patients, and established that half of these patients treated with INCB18424 achieved at least a 33% reduction in spleen
volume compared to baseline after six months.

Under
our collaboration with Novartis we have a second Phase III trial for INCB18424 in Europe which began enrolling patients in June 2009. This trial is designed based on
scientific advice from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and is fully enrolled, with over 200 patients with primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis, and
post-essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis at approximately 65 clinical sites in 10 countries. The trial is an open-label study designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety and
tolerability of INCB18424 as compared to the best-available therapy. The primary efficacy endpoint in the European Phase III trial is also the proportion of patients achieving at
least 35% reduction in spleen volume from baseline at 48 weeks.

We
have received orphan drug status from the FDA for INCB18424 as a treatment for myelofibrosis and orphan medicinal product designation from the EMA for INCB18424 for the treatment of
chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis and also for the treatment of myelofibrosis secondary to polycythemia vera or essential thrombocythemia.

Polycythemia Vera and Essential Thrombocythemia.In 2008, we began a dose-ranging Phase II trial in advanced polycythemia vera and
essential thrombocythemia for patients who were either refractory or intolerant to hydroxyurea to evaluate INCB18424 in these patients. This Phase II trial included over 70 patients at six
clinical sites in the United States and Europe. Results presented in December 2009 showed that treatment with INCB18424 provided significant clinical benefits in patients with advanced polycythemia
vera and essential thrombocythemia, including normalization of blood counts, normalization of hematocrit without the need for phlebotomy, rapid and durable reductions in enlarged spleens as well as
rapid and durable reductions in symptoms, particularly pruritus. We intend to discuss with the FDA regulatory requirements for approval of INCB18424 first in polycythemia vera.

Rheumatoid Arthritis.We have a second JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor, INCB28050, which is our lead compound for inflammation and is now subject
to our
collaboration with Lilly. INCB28050 is currently being evaluated in a six-month double-blind placebo-controlled dose-ranging Phase II trial involving over











patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who have had inadequate response to currently available disease modifying therapies. Three-month results for efficacy and safety from this study are
expected in the first half of 2010 and six-month results are expected in the second half of 2010. Based on these results, we expect to decide if we want to exercise our option to
co-develop INCB28050 with Lilly in this indication.

Psoriasis.In September 2008, we announced results from a completed 28-day Phase IIa dose-escalation trial with
topical INCB18424, involving 28 patients with mild-to-moderate psoriasis along with preliminary top-line results from an ongoing 28-day
sub-total inunction trial. These results showed that topical INCB18424 in mild-to-moderate psoriasis patients was well tolerated at all doses tested and
significantly improved overall total lesion score (thickness, erythema, and scaling). In addition to the safety and efficacy results, transcriptional profiling data from the sub-total
inunction trial indicated that topical INCB18424 inhibits two key pathways, Th1 and Th17, which play important roles in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. We recently completed a three-month
multiple-dose Phase IIb trial involving approximately 200 psoriasis patients with mild-to-moderate disease, in which treatment with INCB18424 met the primary
and secondary endpoints and was well tolerated at all doses. We intend to present full results from this Phase IIb trial at the 2010 Society for Investigative Dermatology Annual Meeting in May.
We may progress topical INCB18424 for psoriasis on our own, or we may seek a collaborator for this indication.

c-MET for Solid Tumors

c-MET is a clinically validated receptor kinase cancer target and abnormal c-MET activation in cancer
correlates with poor prognosis. Dysregulation of the c-MET pathway triggers tumor growth, formation of new blood vessels that supply the tumor with nutrients, and causes cancer to spread
to other organs. Dysregulation of the c-MET pathway is seen in many types of cancers including kidney, liver, stomach, breast, and brain.

Several
small molecule c-MET kinase inhibitors have demonstrated clinical efficacy in a number of cancers; however, these molecules have limited potency and are relatively
non-selective, which could lead to off-target toxicities. We believe our lead c-MET inhibitor, INCB28060, has the requisite properties to overcome these
limitations, including greater selectivity, improved potency and more effective inhibition of c-MET. Novartis received worldwide exclusive development and commercialization rights to
INCB28060 and certain back-up compounds in all indications. Under our collaboration with Novartis, we initiated a Phase I clinical trial in early 2010 that is expected to include
approximately 50 patients with solid tumors.

Sheddase Inhibitor Program for Solid Tumors

We have identified novel, potent, and orally available small-molecule inhibitors of sheddase. Sheddase is an enzyme that is believed to
activate all four epidermal growth factor receptors that play a key role in the growth and survival of multiple tumor types, including breast, colorectal, and non-small lung cancers.
INCB7839, our lead sheddase compound, is in an ongoing Phase II clinical trial designed to determine its effectiveness when used in combination with trastuzumab (Herceptin). In December 2009,
we announced results from this ongoing Phase II clinical trial for INCB7839, involving 46 patients with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer. The results suggest that, when compared to a
historical control study of trastuzumab as monotherapy, INCB7839 in combination with trastuzumab may provide improvements in time to progression and response rate in a subset of patients with HER2
positive metastatic breast cancer known as p95HER2 positive patients. These improved outcomes were achieved despite the presence of more advanced disease in the study population as compared to the
historical control in published data. If results from the ongoing clinical development program for INCB7839 continue to support use of INCB7839 in this subset of patients, we intend to meet with the
FDA to determine if a Phase III program in p95HER2 positive breast cancer patients could serve as the basis of regulatory approval.









IDO for Solid Tumors

The enzyme, indoleamine 2, 3-dioxygenase, IDO, is a key regulator of the mechanisms that are responsible for allowing
tumors to escape from a patient's immune surveillance. IDO expression by tumor cells, or by antigen presenting cells such as macrophages and dendritic cells in tumors, creates an environment in which
tumor specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes are rendered functionally inactive or are no longer able to attack a patient's cancer cells.
By inhibiting IDO, it is proposed that this "brake" on the anti-tumor immune response is removed, allowing anti-tumor specific cytotoxic T cells, generated in a patient
spontaneously in response to the tumor, or through a therapy designed to stimulate the immune response, to have greater anti-tumor efficacy.

We
believe our compound, INCB24360, represents a novel, potent, and selective inhibitor of the enzyme IDO. It is efficacious in multiple mouse models of cancer and has been
well-tolerated in preclinical safety studies. An Investigational New Drug application (IND) has been cleared and we intend to initiate a Phase I/II clinical trial in patients with
solid tumors in the second half of 2010.

11ßHSD1 Program for Type 2 Diabetes and Related Disorders

We have developed a broad chemically diverse series of novel proprietary oral inhibitors of 11ßHSD1, an enzyme that
converts the biologically-inactive steroid cortisone into the potent biologically-active hormone cortisol. Cortisol acts as a functional antagonist of insulin action in multiple tissue types,
including the liver, adipose, skeletal muscle, and pancreas. Inhibition of 11ßHSD1 offers the potential to reduce insulin resistance and restore glycemic control in type 2 diabetes,
and may also offer potential benefits in allied conditions such as dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis, and coronary heart disease.

In
June 2009, we presented clinical results from a three-month placebo-controlled, dose-ranging Phase IIb trial involving approximately 300 patients with type 2
diabetes which demonstrated that treatment with once-daily doses of INCB13739 significantly improved glycemic control, as measured by hemoglobin A1c, insulin sensitivity and
total-cholesterol levels. Because diabetes is outside of our core focus in oncology and inflammation, we are seeking a collaborator for this program.

Discovery

We have a number of early discovery programs at various stages of preclinical testing. We do not typically disclose these programs
and/or targets until we have successfully completed preclinical toxicology tests with the lead clinical candidate.

License Agreements

Novartis

In November 2009, we entered into a Collaboration and License Agreement with Novartis. Under the terms of the agreement, Novartis
received exclusive development and commercialization rights outside of the United States to INCB18424 and certain back-up compounds for hematologic and oncology indications, including all
hematological malignancies, solid tumors and myeloproliferative diseases. We retained exclusive development and commercialization rights to INCB18424 in the United States and in certain other
indications. Novartis also received worldwide exclusive development and commercialization rights to our c-MET inhibitor compound INCB28060 and certain back-up compounds in all
indications. We retained options to co-develop and to co-promote INCB28060 in the United States.

We
received an upfront payment of $150 million in December 2009 plus an immediate $60 million milestone payment in January 2010 earned for the start of the Phase III
study for INCB18424 in Europe. We may be eligible to receive future additional payments if defined development and commercialization milestones are achieved and could receive tiered, double digit
royalties on future INCB18424 sales outside of the United States. Each company is responsible for costs relating to the development and











commercialization
of the JAK inhibitor compound in its respective territories, with costs of collaborative studies shared equally. Novartis is responsible for all costs relating to the development and
commercialization of the c-MET inhibitor compound after the initial Phase I clinical trial.

The
Novartis agreement will continue on a program-by-program basis until Novartis has no royalty payment obligations with respect to such program or, if earlier,
the termination of the agreement or any program in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The agreement may be terminated in its entirety or on a program-by-program basis
by Novartis for convenience. The agreement may also be terminated by either party under certain other circumstances, including material breach.

Lilly

In December 2009, we entered into a License, Development and Commercialization Agreement with Lilly. Under the terms of the Lilly
agreement, Lilly received exclusive worldwide development and commercialization rights to INCB28050 and certain back-up compounds for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. We received an
initial payment of $90 million, and we may be eligible to receive future additional payments based on the achievement of defined development, regulatory and commercialization milestones and
could receive tiered, double-digit royalty payments on future global sales with rates ranging up to 20% if the product is successfully commercialized.

We
retained options to co-develop our JAK1/JAK2 inhibitors with Lilly on a compound-by-compound and indication-by-indication
basis. Lilly will be responsible for all costs relating to the development and commercialization of the compounds unless we elect to co-develop any compounds or indications. If we elect to
co-develop any compounds and/or indications, we would be responsible for funding 30% of the associated future global development costs from the initiation of a Phase IIb trial. We
would receive an incremental royalty rate increase across all tiers resulting in effective royalty rates ranging up to the high twenties on potential future global sales for compounds and/or
indications that we elect to co-develop. We also retained an option to co-promote products in the United States. The Lilly agreement will continue until Lilly no longer has any
royalty payment obligations or, if earlier, the termination of the agreement in accordance with its terms. The agreement may be terminated by Lilly for convenience, and may also be terminated under
certain other circumstances, including material breach.

Pfizer

In January 2006, we entered into a Collaborative Research and License Agreement with Pfizer Inc. for the pursuit of our CCR2
antagonist program. Pfizer gained worldwide development and commercialization rights to our portfolio of CCR2 antagonist compounds. Pfizer's rights extend to the full scope of potential indications,
with the exception of multiple sclerosis and autoimmune nephritides, where we retained worldwide rights, along with certain compounds. We do not have obligations to Pfizer on pre-clinical
development candidates we select for pursuit in these indications. The agreement will terminate upon the expiration of the last to expire of patent rights licensed under the agreement. Prior to such
expiration, either party can terminate the agreement for the uncured material breach of the agreement by the other party or for the insolvency of the other party. In addition, Pfizer may terminate the
agreement at any time upon 90 days' notice. We received an upfront nonrefundable, non-creditable payment of $40 million in January 2006 and are eligible to receive additional
future development and milestone payments.

Incyte's Approach to Drug Discovery and Development

Our productivity in drug discovery and development is primarily a result of our core competency in medicinal chemistry which is tightly
integrated with and supported by an experienced team of biologists with expertise in multiple therapeutic areas. As a number of our compounds have progressed into clinical development, we have also
built a clinical development and regulatory team. This team utilizes clinical research organizations (CROs), expert scientific advisory boards, and leading consultants and suppliers in











relevant
drug development areas in an effort to conduct our clinical trials efficiently and effectively, while maintaining strategic control of the design and management of our programs.

To
succeed in our objective to create a pipeline of novel, orally available drugs that address serious unmet medical needs, we have established a broad range of discovery capabilities
in-house, including target validation, high-throughput screening, medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, and pharmacological and ADME (absorption, distribution,
metabolism and excretion) assessment. We augment these capabilities through collaborations with academic and contract laboratory resources with relevant expertise.

We
select drug targets with strong preclinical or clinical validation in areas where we have the potential to generate either first-in-class molecules or
compounds that are highly differentiated from existing treatments.

Our
chemistry and biology efforts are highly integrated and are characterized by the rapid generation of relevant data on a broad and diverse range of compounds for each therapeutic
target we pursue. This process allows our scientists to better understand the potency and selectivity of the compounds, how they are likely to be absorbed and eliminated in the body, and to assess the
potential safety profile of the compounds. We believe that this approach, along with stringent criteria for the selection of clinical candidates, allows us to select appropriate candidates for
clinical development and assess key characteristics required for success.

Given
our chemistry-driven discovery process, our pipeline has grown to encompass multiple therapeutic areas, primarily in the areas of oncology and inflammation. We conduct a limited
number of discovery programs in parallel at any one time. This focus allows us to allocate resources to our selected programs at a level that we believe is competitive with much larger pharmaceutical
companies. We believe this level of resource allocation, applied to the discovery process outlined above, has been a critical competitive advantage in advancing our product pipeline.

Additionally,
in all of our programs we strive to generate a broad range of proprietary compounds which we believe enhances the overall probability of success for our programs and
creates the potential for multiple products.

Once
our compounds reach clinical development, our objective, whenever possible, is to rapidly progress the lead candidate into a proof-of-concept Phase II
clinical trial to quickly assess the therapeutic potential of the clinical candidate itself and its underlying mechanism. This information is then used to evaluate the commercial potential of the
compound, the most appropriate indication or indications to pursue, and whether to pursue any development on our own or seek a strategic relationship for the compound.

Incyte's Development Teams

Our development teams are responsible for ensuring that our clinical candidates are expeditiously progressed from preclinical
development and IND-enabling studies into human testing. To keep pace with the growth in our clinical pipeline, we have added new members to the development teams by internal transfers and
by recruiting new employees with expertise in drug development including clinical trial design, statistics, regulatory affairs, and project management. We have also built core internal process
chemistry and formulation teams using this same strategy. Rather than build extensive infrastructure, we work with external CROs with expertise in managing clinical trials, process chemistry, product
formulation, and the manufacture of clinical trial supplies to support our drug development efforts.

Commercial Strategy

Our strategy is to develop and commercialize our compounds on our own in selected markets when we believe a company of our size can
successfully compete, such as in myelofibrosis, other myeloproliferative











neoplasms,
other oncology indications and certain inflammatory conditions. Our oral JAK inhibitor, INCB18424, entered Phase III testing in the second half of 2009 for myelofibrosis and, if
these results are positive, we intend to file a New Drug Application with the FDA to secure regulatory approval of the compound in the United States. We are starting to build the marketing,
medical and operational infrastructure to support commercialization of INCB18424 in myelofibrosis in the United States. In
2009, the marketing team focused the majority of its efforts on conducting quantitative and qualitative market research among physicians and patients, initiating brand development work, and
progressing development of the generic and trade names.

For
rights outside the United States to INCB18424 as well as for pipeline compounds that are outside of our core expertise or would require expensive clinical studies, we have
established or are seeking to establish collaborations or strategic relationships to support development and commercialization. We established a collaboration with Novartis in 2009 for rights in
certain indications outside of the United States to our JAK oncology program with INCB18424 and specified backups, as well as worldwide rights to our c-MET inhibitor compound INCB28060. We
also established a collaboration with Lilly in 2009 for our JAK inflammation and autoimmune program with INCB28050 and specified back-ups, and with Pfizer in 2005 to advance our CCR2
antagonist program. We believe the key benefits to entering into strategic relationships include the potential to receive upfront payments and future milestones and royalties in exchange for certain
rights to our compounds, as well as the potential to expedite the development and commercialization of certain of our compounds.

Patents and Other Intellectual Property

We regard the protection of patents and other enforceable intellectual property rights that we own or license as critical to our
business and competitive position. Accordingly, we rely on patent, trade secret and copyright law, as well as nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, to protect our intellectual property. We
have established a patent portfolio of owned or in-licensed patents and patent applications that cover aspects of all our drug candidates, as well as other patents and patent applications
that relate to full-length genes and genomics-related technologies obtained as a result of our past high-throughput gene sequencing efforts. The patents and patent applications
relating to our drug candidates generally include claims directed to the drug candidates, methods of using the drug candidates, formulations of the drug candidates, and methods of manufacturing the
drug candidates. Our policy is to pursue patent applications on inventions and discoveries we believe that are commercially important to the development and growth of our business.

Patents
extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual
protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends on the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country.

We
have a number of established patent license agreements relating to our gene patent portfolio and our genomics-related technology patent portfolio. We are presently receiving royalties
and other payments under certain of our gene and genomics-related patent license agreements. Under our gene patent license agreements, we may in the future receive royalties and other payments if our
licensees are successful in their efforts to discover drugs and diagnostics under these license agreements.

We
may seek to license rights relating to technologies in connection with our drug discovery and development programs. Under these licenses, we may be required to pay
up-front fees, license fees, milestone payments and royalties on sales of future products.

Although
we believe our rights under patents and patent applications provide a competitive advantage, the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are highly
uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be able to develop patentable products or processes, and may not be able to obtain patents in the United States or elsewhere from
pending











applications.
Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be valid or enforceable or may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or
licensed to us or provide us with a competitive advantage. Any patent or other intellectual property rights that we own or obtain may be circumvented, challenged or invalidated by our competitors.
Others may have patents that relate to our business or technology and that may prevent us from marketing our product candidates unless we are able to obtain a license to those patents. In addition,
litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce patents, to protect our other intellectual property rights, to determine the scope and validity of
the proprietary rights of third parties or to defend ourselves in patent or other intellectual property right suits brought by third parties. We could incur substantial costs in such litigation or
other proceedings. An adverse outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liability.

With
respect to proprietary information that is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality
agreements to protect our interests. While we require all employees, consultants and potential business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our
trade secrets or other proprietary information. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets.

Competition

Our drug discovery and development activities face, and will continue to face, intense competition from organizations such as
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies. Our major competitors include fully integrated pharmaceutical companies that have
extensive drug discovery efforts and are developing novel small molecule pharmaceuticals. We face significant competition from organizations that are pursuing pharmaceuticals that are competitive with
our potential products.

Many
companies and institutions, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs
than we do. In addition, many competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in:

•drug discovery;•developing products;•undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials;•obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; and•manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling products.

Accordingly,
our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA and other regulatory approval or commercializing products before we do. If we commence commercial
product sales, we will be competing against companies with greater manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience.

In
addition, any drug candidate that we successfully develop may compete with existing therapies that have long histories of safe and effective use. Competition may also arise
from:

•other drug development technologies and methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease;•new small molecules; or•other classes of therapeutic agents.











Developments by others may render our drug candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for
collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for licenses to proprietary technology. These
competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing products that are more effective than ours.

Our
ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to:

•develop proprietary products;•develop and maintain products that reach the market first, are technologically superior to and/or are of lower cost than
other products in the market;•attract and retain scientific and product development personnel;•obtain patent or other proprietary protection for our products and technologies;•obtain required regulatory approvals; and•manufacture, market, distribute and sell any products that we develop.

In
a number of countries, including in particular, developing countries, government officials and other groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs available at
a low cost. In some cases, governmental authorities have indicated that where pharmaceutical companies do not do so, their patents might not be enforceable to prevent generic competition. Some major
pharmaceutical companies have greatly reduced prices for their drugs in certain developing countries. If certain countries do not permit enforcement of any of our patents, sales of our products in
those countries, and in other countries by importation from low-price countries, could be reduced by generic competition or by parallel importation of our product. Alternatively,
governments in those countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products in those countries, thereby reducing our
product sales, or we could respond to governmental concerns by reducing prices for our products. In all of these situations, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

Government Regulation

The
steps required before a drug may be marketed in the United States include:

•preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies;









•submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may
commence;•adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in three phases, as described below, to establish the safety and
efficacy of the drug for each indication;•submission of a new drug application (NDA) to the FDA for review;•satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug is produced to
assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices; and•FDA approval of the NDA.

Similar
requirements exist within many foreign agencies as well. The time required to satisfy FDA requirements or similar requirements of foreign regulatory agencies may vary
substantially based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product or the targeted disease.

Preclinical
testing includes laboratory evaluation of product pharmacology, drug metabolism, and toxicity which includes animal studies, as well as product chemistry and formulation
development. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. An IND will automatically become effective
30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time, the FDA raises concerns or questions about issues such as the conduct of the clinical trials as outlined in the IND. In the latter
case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding FDA concerns or questions before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot be sure that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing
clinical trials to commence.

Clinical
trials involve the administration of the investigational drug or the marketed drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators. Clinical trials are
conducted under protocols detailing the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the
FDA as part of the IND and each trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent ethics committee or institutional review board (IRB) before it can begin.

Clinical
trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined. Phase I usually involves the initial introduction of the
investigational drug into healthy volunteers to evaluate its safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion, and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its
effectiveness.

Phase II
usually involves clinical trials in a limited patient population to evaluate dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, and
evaluate and gain preliminary evidence of the efficacy of the drug for specific indications.

Phase III
clinical trials usually further evaluate clinical efficacy and safety by testing the drug in its final form in an expanded patient population, providing statistical
evidence of efficacy and safety, and providing an adequate basis for physician labeling. We cannot guarantee that Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing will be completed
successfully within any specified period of time, if at all. Furthermore, we or the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients
are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.

As
a separate amendment to an IND, a clinical trial sponsor may submit a request for a special protocol assessment (SPA) from the FDA. Under the SPA procedure, a sponsor may seek the
FDA's agreement on the design and size of a clinical trial intended to form the primary basis of an effectiveness claim. If the FDA agrees in writing, its agreement may not be changed after the trial
begins, except in limited circumstances, such as when a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety and effectiveness of a product candidate is identified after a Phase III
clinical trial is commenced and agreement is obtained with the FDA. If the outcome of the trial is successful, the sponsor will ordinarily be











able
to rely on it as the primary basis for approval with respect to effectiveness. The FDA, however, may make an approval decision based on a number of factors, including the degree of clinical
benefit, and the FDA is not obligated to approve an NDA as a result of an SPA, even if the clinical outcome is positive.

Even
after initial FDA approval has been obtained, further studies, including post-approval trials, may be required to provide additional data and will be required to gain
approval for the sale of a product as a treatment for clinical indications other than those for which the product was initially tested and approved. Also, the FDA will require
post-approval reporting to monitor the side effects of the drug. Results of post-approval programs may limit or expand the indications for which the drug product may be
marketed. Further, if there are any requests for modifications to the initial FDA approval for the drug, including changes in indication, manufacturing process, labeling or manufacturing facilities, a
supplemental NDA may be required to be submitted to the FDA.

Clinical
trials must meet requirements for IRB/ethics committee oversight, informed consent and good clinical practices. In the United States, clinical trials must be conducted under FDA
oversight. Before receiving FDA approval to market a product, we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for the patient population that will be treated. If regulatory approval of a
product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical trials. Marketing or promoting a
drug for an unapproved indication is prohibited. Furthermore, approval may entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Even if this regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed
product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or
facility may result in restrictions on this product, manufacturer or facility, including costly recalls or withdrawal of the product from the market.

The
length of time and related costs necessary to complete clinical trials varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying
interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials, or cause the costs of these clinical trials to
increase, include:

•slow patient enrollment due to the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility
criteria for the study, competition with clinical trials for other drug candidates or other factors;•inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials;•delays in approvals from a study site's IRB;•longer than anticipated treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness or determine the appropriate product dose;•lack of sufficient supplies of the drug candidate for use in clinical trials;•adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and•lack of effectiveness of the drug candidate being tested.

Any
drug is likely to produce some toxicities or undesirable side effects in animals and in humans when administered at sufficiently high doses and/or for sufficiently long periods of
time. Unacceptable toxicities or side effects may occur at any dose level, and at any time in the course of animal studies
designed to identify unacceptable effects of a drug candidate, known as toxicological studies, or in clinical trials of our potential products. The appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side
effect could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our drug candidates, and could ultimately prevent their marketing approval by the FDA or
foreign regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications.









The
FDA's fast track program is intended to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drug candidates intended for the treatment of serious or life-threatening
diseases and that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for these conditions. Under this program, the FDA can, for example, review portions of an NDA for a fast track product before
the entire application is complete, thus potentially beginning the review process at an earlier time.

We
cannot guarantee that the FDA will grant any of our requests for fast track designation, that any fast track designation would affect the time of review or that the FDA will approve
the NDA submitted for any of our drug candidates, whether or not fast track designation is granted. Additionally, FDA approval of a fast track product can include restrictions on the product's use or
distribution (such as permitting use only for specified medical conditions or limiting distribution to physicians or facilities with special training or experience). Approval of fast track products
can be conditioned on additional clinical trials after approval.

FDA
procedures also provide for priority review of NDAs submitted for drugs that, compared to currently marketed products, offer a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or
prevention of a disease. The FDA seeks to review NDAs that are granted priority status more quickly than NDAs given standard review status. The FDA's stated policy is to act on 90% of priority NDAs
within six months of receipt. Although the FDA historically has not met these goals, the agency has made significant improvements in the timeliness of the review process.

We
and any of our contract manufacturers are also required to comply with applicable FDA current good manufacturing practice regulations. Good manufacturing practices include
requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as to corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the
applicable regulatory authorities. These facilities, whether our own or our contract manufacturers, must be approved before we can use them in commercial manufacturing of our related products. We or
our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices and FDA or other regulatory requirements. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply, we or
our contract manufacturers may be subject to legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, or voluntary recall of product. Furthermore, continued compliance with
applicable good manufacturing practices will require continual expenditure of time, money and effort on the part
of us or our contract manufacturers in the areas of production and quality control and record keeping and reporting, in order to ensure full compliance.

Outside
the United States, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The requirements governing
the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. At present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national
level, although within the European Union, or EU, centralized registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product in more than one EU member state. If the regulatory
authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy has been presented, a marketing authorization may be granted. This foreign regulatory approval process involves all of the
risks associated with FDA approval discussed above and may also include additional risks.

The
Orphan Drug Act provides incentives to manufacturers to develop and market drugs for rare diseases and conditions affecting fewer than 200,000 persons in the United States at the
time of application for orphan drug designation. The first developer to receive FDA marketing approval for an orphan drug is entitled to a seven year exclusive marketing period in the United States
for that product. However, a drug that the FDA considers to be clinically superior to, or different from, another approved orphan drug, even though for the same indication, may also obtain approval in
the United States during the seven year exclusive marketing period. We believe that the commercial success of any orphan drug product that we may commercialize depends more significantly on the
associated safety and efficacy profile and on the price relative to competitive or alternative treatments and other marketing characteristics of the product











than
on the exclusivity afforded by the Orphan Drug Act. Additionally, these products may be protected by patents and other means.

Legislation
similar to the Orphan Drug Act has been enacted in other countries outside of the United States, including the EU. The orphan legislation in the EU is available for therapies
addressing conditions that affect five or fewer out of 10,000 persons. The market exclusivity period is for ten years, although that period can be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth
year, available evidence establishes that the product does not justify maintenance of market exclusivity.

Transition into Small-Molecule Drug Discovery and Development

In February 2004, we made the decision to discontinue further development of our information products line, close our Palo Alto
headquarters and focus solely on the discovery and development of novel drugs. We no longer have any activities in the information products
area. However, we retain certain existing licenses and licensing activities related to the intellectual property portfolio generated prior to the transition.

Research and Development

Since our inception, we have made substantial investments in research and technology development. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we
incurred research and development expenses of $119.4 million, $146.4 million and $104.9 million, respectively.

Human Resources

As of December 31, 2009, we had 221 employees, including 177 in research and development and 44 in operations support, finance
and administrative positions. Of these employees, 84 employees have advanced technical degrees including 9 MDs and 72 Ph.Ds. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and
management considers relations with our employees to be good.

Available Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1991 and our website is located atwww.incyte.com.
We make available free of charge on our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our website and the information
contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.











