Item 1.Business

This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements relate
to future periods, future events or our future operating or financial plans or performance. Often, these statements include the words "believe," "expect," "target," "anticipate," "intend," "plan,"
"seek," "estimate," "potential," or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," or "may," or the negative of these terms, and other
similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include statements as to:

•

the discovery, development, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of our compounds, our drug
candidates and JAKAFI®/JAKAVI®(ruxolitinib);

•

conducting clinical trials internally, with collaborators, or with clinical research
organizations;

•

our collaboration and strategic relationship strategy; anticipated benefits and disadvantages of entering into
collaboration agreements;

•

our licensing, investment and commercialization strategies, including our plans to commercialize
JAKAFI;

•

the regulatory approval process, including obtaining U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other international
health authorities approval for our products in the United States and abroad;

•

the safety, effectiveness and potential benefits and indications of our drug candidates and other compounds
under development;

•

the timing and size of our clinical trials; the compounds expected to enter clinical trials; timing of
clinical trial results;

•

our ability to manage expansion of our drug discovery and development
operations;

•

future required expertise relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and
marketing;

•

obtaining and terminating licenses to products, drug candidates or technology, or other intellectual property
rights;

•

the receipt from or payments pursuant to collaboration or license agreements resulting from milestones or
royalties;

•

plans to develop and commercialize products on our own;

•

plans to use third party manufacturers;

•

expected expenses and expenditure levels; expected uses of cash; expected revenues and sources of
revenues;

•

expected losses; fluctuation of losses; currency translation impact associated with collaboration
royalties;

•

our profitability; the adequacy of our capital resources to continue
operations;

•

the need to raise additional capital;

•

the costs associated with resolving matters in litigation;

•

our expectations regarding competition;

•

our investments, including anticipated expenditures, losses and
expenses;

•

our patent prosecution and maintenance efforts; and

•

our indebtedness, and debt service obligations.









These forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events, are based on assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and include, but are not limited to:

•

our ability to successfully commercialize JAKAFI;

•

our ability to maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for JAKAFI from government health administration
authorities, private health insurers and other organizations;

•

our ability to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution
capabilities;

•

the risk of reliance on other parties to manufacture JAKAFI, which could result in a short supply of JAKAFI,
increased costs, and withdrawal of regulatory approval;

•

our ability to maintain regulatory approvals to market
JAKAFI;

•

our ability to achieve a significant market share in order to achieve or maintain
profitability;

•

the risk of civil or criminal penalties if we market JAKAFI in a manner that violates health care fraud and
abuse and other applicable laws, rules and regulations;

•

our ability to discover, develop, formulate, manufacture and commercialize our drug
candidates;

•

the risk of unanticipated delays in research and development
efforts;

•

the risk that previous preclinical testing or clinical trial results are not necessarily indicative of future
clinical trial results;

•

risks relating to the conduct of our clinical trials;

•

changing regulatory requirements;

•

the risk of adverse safety findings;

•

the risk that results of our clinical trials do not support submission of a marketing approval application for
our drug candidates;

•

the risk of significant delays or costs in obtaining regulatory
approvals;

•

risks relating to our reliance on third party manufacturers, collaborators, and clinical research
organizations;

•

risks relating to the development of new products and their use by us and our current and potential
collaborators;

•

risks relating to our inability to control the development of out-licensed compounds or drug
candidates;

•

risks relating to our collaborators' ability to develop and commercialize drug
candidates;

•

costs associated with prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual
property rights;

•

our ability to maintain or obtain adequate product liability and other insurance
coverage;

•

the risk that our drug candidates may not obtain or maintain regulatory
approval;

•

the impact of technological advances and competition;

•

our ability to compete against third parties with greater resources than
ours;

•

risks relating to changes in pricing and reimbursements in the markets in which we may
compete;

•

competition to develop and commercialize similar drug products;









•our ability to obtain patent protection and freedom to operate for our discoveries and to continue to be
effective in expanding our patent coverage;•the impact of changing laws on our patent portfolio;•developments in and expenses relating to litigation;•our ability to in-license drug candidates or other
technology;•our substantial leverage;•our ability to obtain additional capital when needed;•fluctuations in net cash provided and used by operating, financing and investing
activities;•our history of operating losses; and•the risks set forth under "Risk Factors."

Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Except as required by federal securities laws, we
undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future.

In this report all references to "Incyte," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" mean Incyte Corporation and our subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the
term means only the parent company.

Incyte and JAKAFI are our registered trademarks. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Overview

Incyte is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary therapeutics to treat
serious unmet medical needs, primarily in oncology. JAKAFI (ruxolitinib) is our first product to be approved for sale in the United States. It was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) in November 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and in December 2014 for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate
response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea. Myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera are both rare blood cancers.

JAKAFI
is marketed in the United States through our own specialty sales force and commercial team. Under our collaboration agreement with Novartis International
Pharmaceutical Ltd., Novartis received exclusive development and commercialization rights to ruxolitinib outside of the United States for all hematologic and oncologic indications and sells
ruxolitinib outside of the United States under the name JAKAVI.

In
2003, we initiated a research and development program to explore the inhibition of enzymes called janus associated kinases (JAK). The JAK family is composed of four tyrosine
kinases—JAK1, JAK2, JAK3 and Tyk2—that are involved in the signaling of a number of cytokines and growth factors. JAKs are central to a number of biologic processes, including
the formation and development of blood cells and the regulation of immune functions. Dysregulation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway has been associated with a number of diseases, including
myeloproliferative neoplasms, other hematological malignancies, solid tumors, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and other chronic inflammatory diseases. Myeloproliferative neoplasms are a closely
related group of blood diseases in which blood cells, specifically platelets, white blood cells, and red blood cells, grow or act abnormally in the bone marrow. These diseases include myelofibrosis
(MF), polycythemia vera (PV) and essential thrombocythemia.

We
have discovered multiple potent, selective and orally bioavailable JAK inhibitors that are selective for JAK1 or JAK1 and JAK2. JAKAFI is the most advanced compound in our JAK
program. It is an









oral JAK1
and JAK2 inhibitor and was approved by the FDA in November 2011 as a treatment for patients with intermediate or high-risk MF, which includes primary MF, post-polycythemia vera MF and
post-essential thrombocythemia MF. We estimate there are between 16,000 and 18,500 patients with MF in the United States. Based on the modern prognostic scoring systems referred to as International
Prognostic Scoring System and Dynamic International Prognostic Scoring System, we believe intermediate and high-risk patients represent 80 percent to 90 percent of all patients with MF
in the United States and encompass patients over the age of 65, or patients who have or have ever had any of the following: anemia, constitutional symptoms, elevated white blood cell or blast counts,
or platelet counts less than 100,000 per microliter of blood.

In
December 2014, the FDA approved JAKAFI for the treatment of patients with PV who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea. Current standard treatment for PV
is phlebotomy (the removal of blood from the body) plus aspirin. When phlebotomy can no longer control PV, chemotherapy such as hydroxyurea, or interferon, is utilized. Approximately 25,000 patients
with PV in the United States are considered uncontrolled because they have an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea, the most commonly used chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment
of PV.

JAKAFI
was the first FDA-approved JAK inhibitor for any indication and was the first and remains the only product approved by the FDA for use in MF and also now in PV. The FDA has
granted JAKAFI orphan drug status for MF, PV and essential thrombocythemia.

In
August 2012, the European Commission approved ruxolitinib as JAKAVI for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with primary MF (also known as
chronic idiopathic MF), post-polycythemia vera MF or post-essential thrombocythemia MF. In January 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency adopted a
positive opinion for JAKAVI for the treatment of adult patients with polycythemia vera who are resistant to or intolerant of hydroxyurea. We have retained all development and commercialization rights
to JAKAFI in the United States and are eligible to receive development and commercial milestones as well as royalties from product sales outside the United States. We hold patents that cover the
composition of matter and use of ruxolitinib through late 2027, excluding additional potential patent term extensions. We believe ruxolitinib may have potential as a treatment for other cancers.

Full
results from the Phase II proof-of-concept RECAP trial of ruxolitinib in patients with refractory metastatic pancreatic cancer were presented in June 2014 and suggest a
demonstrable survival benefit in a pre-specified subgroup of patients with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP). The Company and the FDA have agreed on a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) for a
registration trial for advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer. Under the SPA, the Phase III JANUS 1 trial can be limited to patients with elevated CRP and there is no requirement to develop a
companion diagnostic. The global Phase III program includes a second nearly identical Phase III trial, JANUS 2, and both trials are
ongoing. The FDA has granted orphan drug status for ruxolitinib for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.

Elevated
CRP has negative prognostic significance in many tumor types, and we believe that JAK inhibition may represent a new treatment approach for other solid tumors. To test this
hypothesis, we have initiated three blinded proof-of-concept Phase II trials evaluating ruxolitinib in non-small cell lung cancer, breast cancer and colorectal cancer. The primary endpoint for
each trial will be overall survival.

We
have a second oral JAK1 and JAK2 inhibitor, baricitinib, which is subject to a collaboration agreement with Eli Lilly and Company in which Lilly received exclusive worldwide
development and commercialization rights for the compound for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. We could receive tiered, double-digit royalty payments on future global sales of products subject to
the agreement with rates ranging up to 20 percent if the products are successfully commercialized. This collaboration also contains an option for us to co-develop compounds for any inflammatory
and autoimmune disease, whereby we fund 30 percent of development costs from Phase IIb through regulatory approval for that indication in exchange for tiered royalties ranging up to the
high twenties on potential future sales. We exercised our co-development option for the development of baricitinib in rheumatoid arthritis in 2010. The Phase III









program
of baricitinib in patients with rheumatoid arthritis is ongoing, and in December 2014, we announced with Lilly that the first of the Phase III trials met the primary endpoint.
Baricitinib is also in Phase II trials for patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis and patients with diabetic nephropathy. We have decided not to exercise our co-development option for
psoriasis, and the timeframe for exercising our co-development option for diabetic nephropathy has not yet occurred.

We
have a portfolio of wholly-owned JAK1 inhibitors. Our lead JAK1 inhibitor, INCB39110, has completed proof-of-concept studies in patients with psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis and
myelofibrosis. While the results of the psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis studies were positive, for strategic reasons, we are pursuing oncologic indications with INCB39110. We believe that selective
JAK1 inhibition has the potential to minimize the myelosuppression associated with JAK2 inhibition, thus potentially enabling the combination of JAK1 selective inhibitors with myelosuppressive
chemotherapy. The clinical program to evaluate INCB39110 in solid tumors includes one ongoing Phase I open-label safety study in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel and two blinded
proof-of-concept Phase II trials in non-small cell lung cancer. Both trials are now underway, and both trials are designed with overall survival as the primary endpoint. We have another JAK1
inhibitor, INCB52793, which has recently initiated a Phase I/II trial in advanced malignancies.

We
have an oral IDO1 inhibitor, epacadostat (previously INCB24360) which belongs to a new class of agents known as immuno-oncology agents. IDO1 is an enzyme whose increased levels in
multiple solid tumor types are associated with decreased survival. IDO1 inhibition shifts the immune system from an immunosuppressive state to an activated state, allowing the body to mount a more
effective anti-tumor immune response. While preclinical data suggest that IDO1 inhibition can provide anti-tumor effects as monotherapy, based on the significant synergy exhibited in combination with
checkpoint inhibitors as well as emerging clinical data, we believe that the optimal development strategy for our IDO1 inhibitor is in combination with other immuno-oncology therapies. During 2014 we
signed clinical trial agreements with Merck, Genentech, AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers Squibb to evaluate epacadostat with their respective PD-1 and PD-L1 agents in Phase I/II trials, and all
four of these trials are now in progress. The tumor types under investigation under these agreements include non-small cell lung cancer, metastatic melanoma, head and neck cancer, colorectal cancer,
ovarian cancer, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and pancreatic cancer.

We
have recently added two new compounds to our clinical development portfolio. INCB54828 is an FGFR inhibitor that demonstrated potency and selectivity in preclinical studies. The FGFR
family of receptor tyrosine kinases can act as oncogenic drivers in a number of liquid and solid tumor types. INCB54329 is a bromodomain (BRD) inhibitor. BRDs are a family of proteins which play
important roles in mediating gene transcription, most notably by facilitating the expression of oncogenes such as MYC, one of the most frequently dysregulated oncogenes in all human cancer. We plan to
begin clinical trials of INCB54828 and INCB54329 in the first half of this year. We have other orally available small molecule compounds that are in various stages of clinical development, including
two PI3K-delta inhibitors, INCB40093 and INCB50465. INCB40093 is being studied as both monotherapy and in combination with our JAK1 inhibitor, INCB39110, in patients with B-lymphoid malignancies.

We
have a number of programs in preclinical development, and we intend to continue our investment in drug discovery to expand our pipeline.









Our
current pipeline includes the following compounds:

Target/Drug CompoundIndicationStatusONCOLOGYJAK1 and JAK2JAKAFI(1)Myelofibrosis(11)(12)FDA Approved—MarketedJAKAFI(1)Polycythemia Vera(13)FDA Approved—Marketedruxolitinib(1)Pancreatic CancerPhase IIIruxolitinib(1)Breast CancerPhase IIruxolitinib(1)Non-Small Cell Lung CancerPhase IIruxolitinib(1)Colorectal CancerPhase IIJAK1INCB39110Advanced MalignanciesPhase I/IIINCB39110Non-Small Cell Lung CancerPhase IIINCB39110Non-Small Cell Lung CancerPhase IIINCB52793Advanced malignanciesPhase I/IIPI3K-deltaINCB40093B-lymphoid MalignanciesPhase I/IIINCB50465Hematology / OncologyPhase I/IIJAK1+PI3K-deltaINCB39110+INCB40093B-lymphoid MalignanciesPhase I/IIIDO1epacadostatMetastatic MelanomaPhase IIepacadostat(2)Non-Small Cell Lung CancerPhase I/IIepacadostat(3)Non-Small Cell Lung CancerPhase I/IIepacadostat(4)Multiple tumor typesPhase I/IIepacadostat(5)Multiple tumor typesPhase I/IIc-METcapmatinib(6)Solid TumorsPhase I/IIcapmatinib(6)Hepatocellular CarcinomaPhase IIcapmatinib(6)Non-Small Cell Lung CancerPhase IIFGFRINCB54828(7)Solid TumorsPhase I/IIBRDINCB54329(7)Hematology / OncologyPhase I/IIINFLAMMATIONJAK1 and JAK2baricitinib(8)Rheumatoid ArthritisPhase IIIbaricitinib(9)PsoriasisPhase IIbbaricitinib(10)Diabetic NephropathyPhase II

(1)We
licensed rights outside the United States to Novartis and retained U.S. rights.(2)In
combination with Merck's anti-PD-1 immunotherapy, Keytruda (pembrolizumab).(3)In
combination with Genentech's anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy, MPDL3280A.(4)In
combination with AstraZeneca's anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy, MEDI4736.(5)In
combination with Bristol-Myers-Squibb's anti-PD-1 immunotherapy, Opdivo (nivolumab).









(6)We
licensed worldwide rights to Novartis and retained co-development and co-promotion options.(7)Clinical
trial not yet initiated.(8)We
licensed worldwide rights to Lilly, have elected to co-develop with Lilly, and retained a co-promotion option.(9)We
licensed worldwide rights to Lilly and retained a co-promotion option.(10)We
licensed worldwide rights to Lilly and retained co-development and co-promotion options.(11)Several
clinical trials in patients with myelofibrosis are ongoing, including long-term extension studies, alternative dosing studies, joint global trials
with Novartis and trials in patients with low platelet counts.(12)JAKAFI
is approved for treatment of people with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis (MF), including primary MF, post—polycythemia vera MF,
and post—essential thrombocythemia MF.(13)JAKAFI
is approved for treatment of people with polycythemia vera (PV) who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea.

JAKAFI

JAKAFI became commercially available in the United States in November 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high-risk
MF and in December 2014 for the treatment of patients with PV who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea, which we refer to as uncontrolled PV. JAKAFI is marketed in the
United States through our own specialty sales force and commercial team.

To
help ensure that all eligible MF and PV patients have access to JAKAFI, we have established a patient assistance program called IncyteCARES (CARES stands for Connecting to Access,
Reimbursement, Education and Support). IncyteCARES helps ensure that any patient with intermediate or high-risk MF or uncontrolled PV who meets certain eligibility criteria and is prescribed JAKAFI
has access to the product regardless of ability to pay and has access to ongoing support and educational resources during treatment. In addition, IncyteCARES works closely with payers to help
facilitate insurance coverage of JAKAFI.

JAKAFI
is distributed primarily through a network of specialty pharmacy providers and group purchasing organizations that allow for efficient delivery of the medication by mail directly
to patients or direct delivery to the patient's pharmacy of choice. Our distribution process uses a model that is well-established and familiar to physicians who practice within the oncology field.

To
further support appropriate use and future development of JAKAFI, our Medical Affairs department is responsible for providing appropriate scientific and medical education and
information to physicians, preparing scientific presentations and publications, and overseeing the process for supporting investigator sponsored trials.

Novartis
received approval for JAKAVI in the European Union and Canada in the second half of 2012 for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with
primary MF, post-polycythemia vera MF or post-essential thrombocythemia MF. JAKAVI is approved for MF in more than 70 countries with additional worldwide regulatory filings underway for both MF and
PV.

Myelofibrosis.Myelofibrosis is a rare, life-threatening condition. MF, considered the most serious of the myeloproliferative neoplasms,
 can occur
either as primary MF, or as secondary MF that develops in some patients who previously had polycythemia vera or essential thrombocythemia.

Most
MF patients have enlarged spleens and many suffer from debilitating symptoms, including abdominal discomfort, pruritus (itching), night sweats and cachexia (involuntary weight
loss). There were no therapies for MF until the approval of JAKAFI.









The
FDA approval was based on results from two randomized Phase III trials (COMFORT-I and COMFORT-II), which demonstrated that patients treated with JAKAFI experienced significant
reductions in splenomegaly (enlarged spleen). COMFORT-I also demonstrated improvements in symptoms. The most common hematologic adverse reactions in both trials were thrombocytopenia and anemia. These
events rarely led to discontinuation of JAKAFI treatment. The most common non-hematologic adverse reactions were bruising, dizziness and headache.

In
August 2014, the FDA approved supplemental labeling for JAKAFI to include Kaplan-Meier overall survival curves as well as additional safety and dosing information. The overall
survival information is based on three-year data from COMFORT-I and II, and shows that at three years the probability of survival for patients treated with JAKAFI in COMFORT-I was 70% and for those
patients originally randomized to placebo it was 61%. In COMFORT-II, at three years the probability of survival for patients treated with Jakafi was 79% and for patients originally randomized to best
available therapy it was 59%.

Polycythemia Vera.PV is a myeloproliferative neoplasm typically characterized by elevated hematocrit, the volume percentage of red
blood cells in
whole blood, which can lead to a thickening of the blood and an increased risk of blood clots, as well as an elevated white blood cell and platelet count. When phlebotomy can no longer control PV,
chemotherapy such as hydroxyurea, or interferon, is utilized. Approximately 25,000 patients with PV in the United States are considered uncontrolled because they have an inadequate response to or are
intolerant of hydroxyurea, the most commonly used chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of PV.

In
December 2014, the FDA approved JAKAFI for the treatment of patients with PV who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea. The approval of JAKAFI for PV was
based on data from the pivotal Phase III RESPONSE trial. In this trial, patients treated with JAKAFI demonstrated superior hematocrit control and reductions in spleen volume compared to best
available therapy. In addition, a greater proportion of patients treated with JAKAFI achieved complete hematologic remission—which was defined as achieving hematocrit control, and lowering
platelet and white blood cell counts. In the RESPONSE trial, the most common hematologic adverse reactions (incidence > 20%) were thrombocytopenia and anemia. The most common non-hematologic adverse
events (incidence >10%) were headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dizziness, fatigue, pruritus, dyspnea and muscle spasms.

Clinical Programs

JAK1/JAK2 Programs for Oncology and Inflammation

Pancreatic Cancer.Pancreatic cancer is a disease in which malignant cells are found in the tissues of the pancreas. Full results from
the
Phase II proof-of-concept RECAP trial, which compared ruxolitinib in combination with capecitabine versus capecitabine alone in patients with refractory metastatic pancreatic cancer, were
presented in June 2014 and suggest a demonstrable survival benefit in a pre-specified subgroup of patients with elevated CRP. In this subgroup, results showed a hazard ratio for overall survival of
0.47, which means the risk of death was reduced by approximately 50 percent for those patients treated with ruxolitinib. The subgroup represented approximately half of the randomized population
in this trial.

The
Company and the FDA have agreed on an SPA for a registration trial for advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer. Under the SPA, the Phase III JANUS 1 trial can be limited to
patients with elevated CRP and there is no requirement to develop a companion diagnostic. The global Phase III program includes a second nearly identical Phase III trial, JANUS 2. Both
JANUS trials are now recruiting patients.

Solid Tumors.Elevated CRP has negative prognostic significance in many tumor types, and we believe that JAK inhibition may represent a
new treatment
approach for other solid tumors. In the first half of 2014, we initiated three blinded Phase II proof-of-concept trials evaluating ruxolitinib in non-small cell lung cancer, breast cancer and
colon cancer. The primary endpoint for each trial is overall survival.









Rheumatoid Arthritis.Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease characterized by aberrant or abnormal immune mechanisms that lead
to joint
inflammation and swelling and, in some patients, the progressive destruction of joints. Rheumatoid arthritis can also affect connective tissue in the skin and organs of the body.

Current
rheumatoid arthritis treatments include the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, such as methotrexate, and the newer biological
response modifiers that target pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor, implicated in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. None of these approaches to treatment is curative;
therefore, there remains an unmet need for new safe and effective treatment options for these patients. Rheumatoid arthritis is estimated to affect about 1 percent of the world population.

We
have a second JAK1 and JAK2 inhibitor, baricitinib, which is subject to our collaboration agreement with Lilly. The Phase III program of baricitinib in patients with rheumatoid
arthritis began in October 2012 and currently includes four trials that are expected to each recruit between 500 and 1,300 patients. The four trials incorporate all three rheumatoid arthritis
populations (methotrexate naïve, biologic naïve, and biologic experienced); use event rates to fully power the baricitinib program for structural comparison and
non-inferiority vs. adalimumab; incorporate an MRI sub-study into the methotrexate naïve registration trial; and evaluate patient-reported outcomes. In December 2014, we and Lilly
announced that the Phase III RA-BEACON study met the primary endpoint of improved ACR20 response compared to placebo after 12 weeks of treatment. The study included patients with
moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis who previously failed one or more tumor necrosis factor inhibitors and who were taking stable doses of conventional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic
drug therapy. We expect to disclose with Lilly results from the remaining three Phase III studies in 2015. We have exercised our co-development option in rheumatoid arthritis to fund
30 percent of development costs from Phase IIb through regulatory approval in exchange for increased tiered royalties ranging up to the high twenties on potential future sales.

Psoriasis.Baricitinib is also being developed in psoriasis. Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes visible scaling and inflammation.
Most psoriasis
patients have patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales that can occur on the elbows, knees, other parts of the legs, scalp, lower back, face, palms, and soles of the feet. Market research
suggests that neither physicians nor patients are satisfied with existing psoriasis treatments primarily because these require constant monitoring to balance safety and efficacy outcomes. There is
clear unmet need for a better tolerated and effective treatment. The U.S. psoriasis market consists of approximately six million patients, of which moderate-to-severe patients account for
approximately 20 percent of the market.

In
December 2011, Lilly initiated a Phase IIb double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging trial designed to evaluate baricitinib in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque
psoriasis. The trial is fully enrolled with approximately 240 patients randomized in several dose groups. The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate that at least one dose group is superior
to placebo at week 12 in the treatment of patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis as measured by the proportion of patients with at least a 75 percent improvement from baseline in Psoriasis
Area and Severity Index (PASI) score. We have decided not to exercise our co-development option for this indication, although we retain a co-promotion option.

Diabetic Nephropathy.In August 2012, Lilly initiated a Phase II trial to evaluate baricitinib in patients with diabetic
nephropathy. Data
suggest that ongoing renal inflammation plays a key role in diabetic nephropathy, and biopsies from the kidneys of early- and late-stage diabetic kidney disease patients suggest that over-activation
of the JAK/STAT pathway leads to increased levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Therefore, inhibiting cytokine pathways dependent on JAK1 and JAK2 may lead to positive clinical outcomes in diabetic
nephropathy.

In
this dose-ranging placebo-controlled Phase II trial, the primary endpoint was the change from baseline in the urinary albumin/creatinine ratio at 24 weeks. We retain
co-development and co-promotion options for this indication.









JAK1 Programs for Oncology

We believe that selective JAK1 inhibition has the potential to minimize the myelosuppression associated with JAK2 inhibition, thus
potentially enabling the combination of JAK1 selective inhibitors with myelosuppressive chemotherapy. We have a wholly owned portfolio of JAK1 inhibitors, and we are pursuing oncologic indications
with our lead JAK1 inhibitor, INCB39110. We have completed a Phase I clinical trial to evaluate the safety and tolerability of INCB39110 in combination with chemotherapy in patients with
advanced solid tumors, and have initiated two planned placebo-controlled proof-of-concept Phase II trials of INCB39110 in distinct chemotherapeutic regimens in patients with non-small cell lung
cancer. We plan to begin a first line pancreatic cancer study of INCB39110 in combination with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel in the second half of 2015.

We
have another JAK1 inhibitor, INCB52793, which has recently initiated a Phase I/II trial in advanced malignancies.

IDO1 for Oncology

The enzyme, indoleamine 2, 3-dioxygenase-1, IDO1, is a key regulator of the mechanisms that are responsible for allowing tumors to
escape from a patient's immune surveillance. IDO1 expression by tumor cells, or by antigen presenting cells such as macrophages and dendritic cells in tumors, creates an environment in which tumor
specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes are rendered functionally inactive or are no longer able to attack a patient's cancer cells. By inhibiting IDO1, it is proposed that this "brake" on the anti-tumor
immune response is removed, allowing anti-tumor specific cytotoxic T cells, generated in a patient spontaneously in response to the tumor, or through a therapy designed to stimulate the immune
response, to have greater anti-tumor efficacy.

Epacadostat
is a novel, potent and selective inhibitor of the enzyme IDO1. We believe that the optimal development strategy for epacadostat is for the compound to be developed in
combination with other immuno-oncology agents. We have four clinical trial agreements in place to evaluate the safety and efficacy of epacadostat in combination with four different checkpoint
inhibitors: Merck's anti-PD-1 inhibitor Keytruda (pembrolizumab); AstraZeneca's investigational anti-PD-L1 inhibitor, MEDI4736; Bristol-Myers Squibb's anti-PD-1 inhibitor Opdivo (nivolumab); and
Genentech's investigational anti-PD-L1 inhibitor, MPDL3280A. These four agreements are non-exclusive and involve multiple tumor types, including non-small cell lung, melanoma, ovarian, colorectal,
squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, pancreatic and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and the Phase I/II trials under these agreements have been initiated.

PI3K-delta Inhibition for Hematology/Oncology

The PI3K-delta pathway mediates oncogenic signaling in B cell malignancies, and we have two PI3K-delta inhibitors in clinical
development, INCB40093 and INCB50465. We believe each of these compounds provides an opportunity to differentiate competitor agents on potency, pharmacokinetics and safety, thereby potentially
providing more attractive combination opportunities.

INCB50465,
a PI3K-delta inhibitor that demonstrated high potency in preclinical studies, has now entered Phase I development as monotherapy, and INCB40093, our first PI3K-delta
inhibitor, is advancing in both monotherapy and combination (with our JAK1 selective inhibitor INCB39110)
proof-of-concept trials in B-cell malignancies. In-house preclinical studies have demonstrated that the JAK1 and PI3K-delta signaling pathways play inter-related functions in maintaining the growth
and survival of B-lymphoid cells, and the data suggest that concurrent inhibition of the two pathways may achieve synergistic cellular efficacy.









c-MET for Solid Tumors

c-MET is a clinically validated receptor kinase cancer target. Abnormal c-MET activation in cancer correlates with poor prognosis.
Dysregulation of the c-MET pathway triggers tumor growth, formation of new blood vessels that supply the tumor with nutrients, and causes cancer to spread to other organs. Dysregulation of the c-MET
pathway is seen in many types of cancers, including kidney, liver, stomach, breast and brain.

Several
small molecule c-MET kinase inhibitors have demonstrated clinical efficacy in a number of cancers; however, these molecules have limited potency and are relatively non-selective,
which could lead to off-target toxicities. We believe our lead c-MET inhibitor, capmatinib, which is licensed to Novartis, has the requisite properties to overcome these limitations, including greater
selectivity, improved potency and more effective inhibition of c-MET. Under our agreement, Novartis received worldwide exclusive development and commercialization rights to capmatinib and certain
back-up compounds in all indications. Capmatinib is being evaluated in hepatocellular carcinoma, non-small cell lung cancer, and other solid tumors and may have potential utility as a combination
agent.

Early Stage Clinical / Discovery

We have recently added two new compounds to our clinical development portfolio. INCB54828 is an FGFR inhibitor that demonstrated
potency and selectivity in preclinical studies. The FGFR family of receptor tyrosine kinases can act as oncogenic drivers in a number of liquid and solid tumor types. We plan to begin clinical trials
of INCB54828 in the first half of 2015. INCB54329 is a BRD inhibitor. BRDs are a family of proteins which play important roles in mediating gene transcription, most notably by facilitating the
expression of oncogenes such as MYC, one of the
most frequently dysregulated oncogenes in all human cancer. We plan to begin clinical trials of INCB54329 in the first half of 2015.

We
have a number of other early programs at various stages of preclinical and clinical testing. We intend to describe these programs once we have obtained clinical proof-of-concept and
established that a compound within a specific program warrants further development.

License Agreements

Novartis

In November 2009, we entered into a Collaboration and License Agreement with Novartis. Under the terms of the agreement, Novartis
received exclusive development and commercialization rights outside of the United States to ruxolitinib and certain back-up compounds for hematologic and oncology indications, including all
hematological malignancies, solid tumors and myeloproliferative diseases. We retained exclusive development and commercialization rights to JAKAFI (ruxolitinib) in the United States and in certain
other indications. Novartis also received worldwide exclusive development and commercialization rights to our c-MET inhibitor compound capmatinib and certain back-up compounds in all indications. We
retained options to co-develop and to co-promote capmatinib in the United States.

Under
this agreement, we received an upfront payment and immediate milestone payment totaling $210 million and were initially eligible to receive additional payments of up to
approximately $1.2 billion if defined development and commercialization milestones are achieved. We are also eligible to receive tiered, double-digit royalties ranging from the upper-teens to
the mid-twenties on future ruxolitinib net sales outside of the United States. In addition, Novartis has received reimbursement and pricing approval for ruxolitinib in a specified number of countries,
and we are now obligated to pay to Novartis tiered royalties in the low single digits on future ruxolitinib net sales within the United States. Each company is responsible for costs relating to the
development and commercialization of ruxolitinib in its respective territories, with costs of collaborative studies shared equally. Novartis is now responsible for all costs relating to the
development and commercialization of capmatinib.









The
Novartis agreement will continue on a program-by-program basis until Novartis has no royalty payment obligations with respect to such program or, if earlier, the termination of the
agreement or any program in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Royalties are payable by Novartis on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis until the latest to occur of
(1) the expiration of the last valid claim of the licensed patent rights covering the licensed product in the relevant country, (2) the expiration of regulatory exclusivity for the
licensed product in such country and (3) a specified period from first commercial sale in such country of the licensed product by Novartis or its affiliates or sublicensees. The agreement may
be terminated in its entirety or on a program-by-program basis by Novartis for convenience. The agreement may also be terminated by either party under certain other circumstances, including material
breach.

Lilly

In December 2009, we entered into a License, Development and Commercialization Agreement with Lilly. Under the terms of the agreement,
Lilly received exclusive worldwide development and commercialization rights to baricitinib and certain back-up compounds for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. We received an initial payment of
$90 million, and were initially eligible to receive additional payments of up to $665 million based on the achievement of defined development, regulatory and commercialization
milestones. We also could receive tiered, double-digit royalty payments on future global net sales with rates ranging up to 20% if the product is successfully commercialized.

We
retained options to co-develop our JAK1/JAK2 inhibitors with Lilly on a compound-by-compound and indication-by-indication basis. Lilly is responsible for all costs relating to the
development and commercialization of the compounds unless we elect to co-develop any compounds or indications. If we elect to co-develop any compounds and/or indications, we would be responsible for
funding 30% of the associated future global development costs from the initiation of a Phase IIb trial through regulatory approval. We would receive an incremental royalty rate increase across
all tiers resulting in effective royalty rates ranging up to the high twenties on potential future global net sales for compounds and/or indications that we elect to co-develop. We also retained an
option to co-promote products in the United States.

In
July 2010, we elected to co-develop baricitinib with Lilly in rheumatoid arthritis and we are responsible for funding 30% of the associated future global development costs for this
indication from the initiation of the Phase IIb trial through regulatory approval. Baricitinib is also being developed in
psoriasis and diabetic nephropathy. We have decided not to exercise our co-development option for psoriasis.

The
Lilly agreement will continue until Lilly no longer has any royalty payment obligations or, if earlier, the termination of the agreement in accordance with its terms. Royalties are
payable by Lilly on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis until the latest to occur of (1) the expiration of the last valid claim of the licensed patent rights covering the licensed
product in the relevant country, (2) the expiration of regulatory exclusivity for the licensed product in such country and (3) a specified period from first commercial sale in such
country of the licensed product by Lilly or its affiliates or sublicensees. The agreement may be terminated by Lilly for convenience, and may also be terminated under certain other circumstances,
including material breach.

Agenus

In January 2015, we entered into a License, Development and Commercialization Agreement with Agenus Inc. and its wholly-owned
subsidiary, 4-Antibody AG, which we collectively refer to as Agenus. Under this agreement, the parties have agreed to collaborate on the discovery of novel immuno-therapeutics using Agenus'
proprietary Retrocyte Display antibody discovery platform. The effectiveness of the agreement is conditioned on the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act of 1976 (HSR Act).









We
also entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with Agenus Inc., pursuant to which we agreed to purchase, subject to expiration of the waiting period under the HSR Act,
approximately 7.76 million shares of Agenus Inc. common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $35 million in cash, or approximately $4.51 per share. We will own approximately
11% of the outstanding shares of Agenus Inc.'s common stock after such purchase. We have agreed not to dispose of any of the shares of common stock for a period of 12 months and
Agenus Inc. has agreed to certain registration rights with respect to the shares of common stock.

Pfizer

In January 2006, we entered into a Collaborative Research and License Agreement with Pfizer Inc. for the pursuit of our CCR2
antagonist program. Pfizer gained worldwide development and commercialization rights to our portfolio of CCR2 antagonist compounds. Pfizer's rights extend to the full scope of potential indications,
with the exception of multiple sclerosis and autoimmune nephritides, where we retained worldwide rights, along with certain compounds. We do not have obligations to Pfizer on pre-clinical development
candidates we select for pursuit in these indications. The agreement will terminate upon the expiration of the last to expire of patent rights licensed under the agreement. Prior to such expiration,
either party can terminate the agreement for the uncured material breach of the agreement by the other party or for the insolvency of the other party. In addition, Pfizer may terminate the agreement
at any time upon 90 days' notice. We received an upfront nonrefundable, non-creditable payment of $40 million in January 2006 and are eligible to receive additional future development
and commercialization milestone payments.

Incyte's Approach to Drug Discovery and Development

Our productivity in drug discovery and development is primarily a result of our core competency in medicinal chemistry which is tightly
integrated with, and supported by, an experienced team of biologists with expertise in multiple therapeutic areas. We have also built a clinical development and regulatory team. This team utilizes
clinical research organizations (CROs), expert scientific advisory boards, and leading consultants and suppliers in relevant drug development areas in an effort to conduct our clinical trials









efficiently
and effectively, while maintaining strategic control of the design and management of our programs.

To
succeed in our objective to create a pipeline of novel therapeutics that address serious unmet medical needs, we have established a broad range of discovery capabilities in-house,
including target validation, high-throughput screening, medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, and pharmacological and ADME (absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion) assessment. We
augment these capabilities through collaborations with academic and contract laboratory resources with relevant expertise.

Given
our chemistry-driven discovery process, our pipeline has grown and is focused primarily in the area of oncology. We conduct a limited number of discovery programs in parallel at
any one time. This focus allows us to allocate resources to our selected programs at a level that we believe is competitive with larger pharmaceutical companies. We believe this level of resource
allocation, applied to the discovery process outlined above, has been a critical competitive advantage in advancing our product pipeline.

Once
our compounds reach clinical development, our objective, whenever possible, is to rapidly progress the lead candidate into a proof-of-concept Phase II clinical trial to
quickly assess the therapeutic potential of the clinical candidate itself and its underlying mechanism. This information is then used to evaluate the commercial potential of the compound, the most
appropriate indication or indications to pursue, and whether to pursue any development on our own or seek a strategic relationship for the compound.

Our
development teams are responsible for ensuring that our clinical candidates are expeditiously progressed from preclinical development and IND-enabling studies into human testing. Our
development teams include employees with expertise in drug development, including clinical trial design, statistics, regulatory affairs, medical affairs, pharmacovigilance and project management. We
have also built core internal process chemistry and formulation teams using this same strategy. Rather than build extensive infrastructure, we work with contract manufacturers with expertise in
process chemistry, product formulation, and the manufacture of clinical trial supplies to support our drug development efforts. In addition, we use external CROs for later stage clinical trials.

Incyte's Commercial Strategy

Our strategy is to develop and commercialize our compounds on our own in selected markets when we believe a company of our size can
successfully compete, such as in myelofibrosis, polycythemia vera, and other oncology indications. In November 2011, we received regulatory approval of JAKAFI (ruxolitinib) in the United States for
the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis. Since that time, we have focused on increasing utilization of JAKAFI in this patient population. In December 2014, JAKAFI was approved for the
treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea. JAKAFI is the only FDA-approved product to treat these two diseases. JAKAFI is
distributed primarily through a limited network of specialty pharmacy providers and group purchasing organizations. We have expanded the marketing, medical, sales and operational infrastructure to
support continued commercialization of JAKAFI in its two indications and to prepare for potential future indications of JAKAFI and other products in the United States.

For
rights to ruxolitinib outside the United States as well as for pipeline compounds that are outside of our core expertise, would require expensive clinical studies, or could be used
in combination with other compounds or biologics, we have established or may in the future establish collaborations or strategic relationships to support development and commercialization, such as our
collaborations with Novartis and Lilly for our JAK inhibitors. We believe the key benefits to entering into strategic relationships include the potential to receive upfront payments and future
milestones and royalties in exchange for certain rights to our compounds, as well as the potential to expedite the development and commercialization of certain of our compounds.









Patents and Other Intellectual Property

We regard the protection of patents and other enforceable intellectual property rights that we own or license as critical to our
business and competitive position. Accordingly, we rely on patent, trade secret and copyright law, as well as nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, to protect our intellectual property. We
have established a patent portfolio of patents
and patent applications owned by us that cover aspects of all our drug products and drug candidates. The patents and patent applications relating to our drug products and drug candidates generally
include claims directed to the compounds, methods of using the compounds, formulations of the compounds, pharmaceutical salt forms of the compounds, and methods of manufacturing the compounds. Our
policy is to pursue patent applications on inventions and discoveries that we believe are commercially important to the development and growth of our business. The following table sets forth the
status of the patents and patent applications in the United States, the European Union, and Japan, covering our drug products and drug candidates in key programs that have progressed into at least
Phase II clinical trials:

Drug/Drug Candidate (Target)Status of United States Patent Estate(Earliest Anticipated Expirations,Subject to Potential Extensionsand Payment of Maintenance Fees)Status of European Unionand Japan Patent Estate(Earliest Anticipated Expirations,Subject to Potential Extensionsand Payment of Maintenance Fees)ruxolitinib (JAK)Granted and pending (2026)Granted and pending (2026)baricitinib (JAK)Granted and pending (2029)Granted and pending (2029)epacadostat (IDO)Granted and pending (2029)Granted and pending (2029)INCB39110 (JAK)Granted and pending (2031)Applications pending (2031)capmatinib (cMET)Granted and pending (2027)Granted and pending (2027)

Patents
extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual
protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends on the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country.

We
may seek to license rights relating to technologies in connection with our drug discovery and development programs. Under these licenses, we may be required to pay up-front fees,
license fees, milestone payments and royalties on sales of future products.

Although
we believe our rights under patents and patent applications provide a competitive advantage, the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are highly
uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be able to develop patentable products or processes, and may not be able to obtain patents in the United States or elsewhere from
pending applications. Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be valid or enforceable or may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned
by or licensed to us or provide us with a competitive advantage. Any patent or other intellectual property rights that we own or obtain may be circumvented, challenged or invalidated by our
competitors. Others may have patents that relate to our business or technology and that may prevent us from marketing our drug candidates unless we are able to obtain a license to those patents. In
addition, litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce patents, to protect our other intellectual property rights, to determine the scope and
validity of the proprietary rights of third parties or to defend ourselves in patent or other intellectual property right suits brought by third parties. We could incur substantial costs in such
litigation or other proceedings. An adverse outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liability.

With
respect to proprietary information that is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality
agreements to protect our interests. While we require all employees, consultants and potential business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our
trade secrets or other proprietary









information.
Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets.

Competition

Our drug discovery, development and commercialization activities face, and will continue to face, intense competition from
organizations such as pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies. We
face significant competition from organizations, particularly fully integrated pharmaceutical companies, that are pursuing pharmaceuticals that are competitive with JAKAFI and our drug candidates.

Many
companies and institutions, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources, larger drug discovery, development and
commercial staffs and significantly greater experience than we do in:

•drug discovery;•developing products;•undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials;•obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; and•manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling products.

Accordingly,
our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA and other regulatory approval or commercializing products that compete with JAKAFI or our drug
candidates.

In
addition, any drug candidate that we successfully develop may compete with existing therapies that have long histories of safe and effective use. Competition may also arise
from:

•other drug development technologies and methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease;•new small molecules; or•other classes of therapeutic agents.

We
face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships
with academic and research institutions and for licenses to drug candidates or proprietary technology. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing
products that are more effective than ours.

Our
ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to:

•develop proprietary products;•develop and maintain products that reach the market first, are technologically superior to and/or are of lower cost than other
products in the market;•attract and retain scientific, product development and sales and marketing personnel;•obtain patent or other proprietary protection for our products and technologies;•obtain required regulatory approvals; and•manufacture, market, distribute and sell any products that we develop.

In
a number of countries, including in particular, developing countries, government officials and other groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs available at
a low cost. In some









cases,
governmental authorities have indicated that where pharmaceutical companies do not do so, their patents might not be enforceable to prevent generic competition. Some major pharmaceutical
companies have greatly reduced prices for their drugs in certain developing countries. If certain countries do not permit enforcement of any of our patents, sales of our products in those countries,
and in other countries by importation from low-price countries, could be reduced by generic competition or by parallel importation of our product. Alternatively, governments in those countries could
require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products in those countries, thereby reducing our product sales, or we could respond to
governmental concerns by reducing prices for our products. In all of these situations, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

Government Regulation

Our ongoing research and development activities and any manufacturing and marketing of JAKAFI and our drug candidates are subject to
extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. Before marketing in the United States, any drug developed by us must undergo rigorous preclinical
testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory clearance process implemented by the FDA under the United States Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its implementing regulations and, in the case
of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. The FDA regulates, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval,
advertising, promotion, sale and distribution and import and export, of these products.

FDA Review and Approval Process

The regulatory review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. The steps generally required before a drug may be
marketed in the United States include:

•preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA's Good Laboratory Practice and Good
Manufacturing Practice regulations;•submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug application (IND) for human clinical testing, which must become effective before
human clinical trials may commence;•performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in three phases, as described below, to establish the safety and efficacy
of the drug for each indication;•submission of a New Drug Application (NDA) or Biologics License Application (BLA) to the FDA for review;•random inspections of clinical sites to ensure validity of clinical safety and efficacy data;•satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug is produced to assess
compliance with current good manufacturing practices;•FDA approval of the NDA or BLA; and•payment of user and establishment fees, if applicable.

Similar
requirements exist within foreign agencies as well. The time required to satisfy FDA requirements or similar requirements of foreign regulatory agencies may vary substantially
based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product or the targeted disease.

Preclinical
testing includes laboratory evaluation of product pharmacology, drug metabolism, and toxicity which includes animal studies, to assess potential safety and efficacy as well
as product chemistry, stability, formulation, development, and testing. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as
part of an IND. An IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time, the FDA raises









safety
concerns or questions about the conduct of the clinical trial(s) included in the IND. In the latter case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding FDA concerns or questions
before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot be sure that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence.

Clinical
trials involve the administration of the investigational drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators and in accordance with good clinical practices
regulations covering the protection of human subjects. These regulations require all research subjects to provide informed consent. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing the
objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND and each trial
must be reviewed and approved by an institutional review board (IRB) before it can begin.

Clinical
trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined. Phase I usually involves the initial introduction of the
investigational drug into healthy volunteers to evaluate its safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. Phase II usually involves clinical trials in a limited
patient population to evaluate dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, and evaluate and gain preliminary evidence of the efficacy of the drug for
specific indications. Phase III clinical trials usually further evaluate clinical efficacy and safety by testing the drug in its final form in an expanded patient population, providing
statistical evidence of efficacy and safety, and providing an adequate basis for labeling. We cannot guarantee that Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing will be completed
successfully within any specified period of time, if at all. Furthermore, we, the IRB, or the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or
patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.

As
a separate amendment to an IND, a clinical trial sponsor may submit to the FDA a request for a special protocol assessment (SPA). Under the SPA procedure, a sponsor may seek the FDA's
agreement on the design and size of a clinical trial intended to form the primary basis of an effectiveness claim. If the FDA agrees in writing, its agreement may not be changed after the trial
begins, except when agreed by FDA or in limited circumstances, such as when a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety and effectiveness of a drug candidate is identified after
a Phase III clinical trial is commenced and agreement is obtained with the FDA. If the outcome of the trial is successful, the sponsor will ordinarily be able to rely on it as the primary basis
for approval with respect to effectiveness. However, additional trials could also be requested by the FDA to support approval, and the FDA may make an approval decision based on a number of factors,
including the degree of clinical benefit as well as safety. The FDA is not obligated to approve an NDA or BLA as a result of an SPA agreement, even if the clinical outcome is positive.

Even
after initial FDA approval has been obtained, post-approval trials, or Phase IV studies, may be required to provide additional data, and will be required to obtain approval
for the sale of a product as a treatment for a clinical indication other than that for which the product was initially tested and approved. Also, the FDA will require post-approval safety reporting to
monitor the side effects of the drug. Results of post-approval programs may limit or expand the indication or indications for which the drug product may be marketed. Further, if there are any requests
for modifications to the initial FDA approval for the drug, including changes in indication, manufacturing process, manufacturing facilities, or labeling, a supplemental NDA or BLA may be required to
be submitted to the FDA.

The
length of time and related costs necessary to complete clinical trials varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying
interpretations that may delay,









limit
or prevent regulatory approvals. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials, or cause the costs of these clinical trials to increase,
include:

•slow patient enrollment due to the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for
the study, competition with clinical trials for other drug candidates or other factors;•inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials;•delays in approvals from a study site's IRB;•longer than anticipated treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness or determine the appropriate product dose;•lack of sufficient supplies of the drug candidate for use in clinical trials;•adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and•lack of effectiveness of the drug candidate being tested.

Any
drug is likely to produce some toxicities or undesirable side effects in animals and in humans when administered at sufficiently high doses and/or for sufficiently long periods of
time. Unacceptable toxicities or side effects may occur at any dose level, and at any time in the course of animal studies designed to identify unacceptable effects of a drug candidate, known as
toxicological studies, or in clinical trials of our drug candidates. The appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side effect could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, limit, delay or
abort the development of any of our drug candidates, and could ultimately prevent their marketing approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications.

The
FDA's fast track and breakthrough therapy designation programs are intended to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drug candidates intended for the treatment of
serious or life-threatening conditions and that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for these conditions. Under these programs, FDA can, for example, review portions of an NDA or
BLA for a drug candidate before the entire application is complete, thus potentially beginning the review process at an earlier time.

We
cannot guarantee that the FDA will grant any of our requests for fast track or breakthrough therapy designations, that any such designations would affect the time of review or that
the FDA will approve the NDA or BLA submitted for any of our drug candidates, whether or not these designations are granted. Additionally, FDA approval of a fast track/breakthrough product can include
restrictions on the product's use or distribution (such as permitting use only for specified medical conditions or limiting distribution to physicians or facilities with special training or
experience). Approval of such designated products can be conditioned on additional clinical trials after approval.

Sponsors
submit the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA. NDAs and BLAs must also contain extensive product manufacturing information
and proposed labeling. Upon receipt, the FDA initially reviews the NDA or BLA to determine whether it is sufficiently complete to initiate a substantive review. If the FDA identifies deficiencies that
would preclude substantive review, the FDA will refuse to accept the NDA or BLA and will inform the sponsor of the deficiencies that must be corrected prior to resubmission. If the FDA accepts the
submission for review (then deemed a "filing"), the FDA typically completes the NDA or BLA review within a pre-determined time frame. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA agrees to review
NDAs and BLAs under either a standard review or priority review. FDA procedures provide for priority review of NDAs and BLAs submitted for drugs that, compared to currently marketed products, if any,
offer a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. The FDA seeks to review NDAs and BLAs that are









granted
priority status more quickly than NDAs and BLAs given standard review status. The FDA's stated policy is to act on 90% of priority NDAs and BLAs within eight months of receipt (or six months
after filing, which occurs 60 days after NDA or BLA submission). Although the FDA historically has not met these goals, the agency has made significant improvements in the timeliness of the
review process. NDA and BLA review often extends beyond anticipated completion dates due to FDA requests for additional data or clarification, the FDA's decision to have an advisory committee review,
and difficulties in scheduling an advisory committee meeting. The recommendations of an advisory committee are not binding on the FDA.

To
obtain FDA approval to market a product, we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for the patient population that will be treated. If regulatory approval of a
product is granted, the approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical trials. Marketing or promoting a
drug for an unapproved indication is prohibited. Furthermore, approval may entail requirements for post-marketing studies or risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, including the need for patient
and/or physician education, patient registries, medication or similar guides, or other restrictions on the distribution of the product. If an NDA or BLA does not satisfy applicable regulatory
criteria, the FDA may deny approval of an NDA or BLA or may issue a complete response, and require, among other things, additional clinical data or analyses.

Outside
the United States, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The requirements governing
the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. At present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national
level, although within the European Union (EU) registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product in more than one EU member state. If the regulatory authority is satisfied
that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy has been presented, a marketing authorization may be granted. This foreign regulatory approval process involves all of the risks associated with
FDA approval discussed above and may also include additional risks.

The
Orphan Drug Act provides incentives to manufacturers to develop and market drugs for rare diseases and conditions affecting fewer than 200,000 persons in the United States at the
time of application for orphan drug designation. The first developer to receive FDA marketing approval for an orphan drug is entitled to a seven year exclusive marketing period in the United States
for the orphan drug indication. However, a drug that the FDA considers to be clinically superior to, or different from, another approved orphan drug, even though for the same indication, may also
obtain approval in the United States during the seven year exclusive marketing period.

Legislation
similar to the Orphan Drug Act has been enacted in other countries outside of the United States, including the EU. The orphan legislation in the EU is available for therapies
addressing conditions that affect five or fewer out of 10,000 persons, are life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions and for which no satisfactory treatment is authorized. The market
exclusivity period is for ten years, although that period can be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth year, available evidence establishes that the product does not justify maintenance of
market exclusivity.

Regulation of Manufacturing Process

Even when NDA or BLA approval is obtained, a marketed product, such as JAKAFI, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are
subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that
they believe do not comply with regulations. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or facility,
including costly recalls or withdrawal of the product from the market. Manufacturing facilities are always subject to inspection by the applicable regulatory authorities.









We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to current Good Manufacturing Practices, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes,
including but not limited to stability testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by the FDA and the European Medicines Agency. Similar regulations are in effect in other countries.
Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the applicable regulatory authorities. These facilities, whether our own or our contract manufacturers, must be inspected before we can use them
in commercial manufacturing of our related products. We or our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable Good Manufacturing Practices and FDA or other regulatory requirements.
If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply, we or our contract manufacturers may be subject to legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, or voluntary
recall of product. Furthermore, continued compliance with applicable Good Manufacturing Practices will require continual expenditure of time, money and effort on the part of us or our contract
manufacturers in the areas of production and quality control and record keeping and reporting, in order to ensure full compliance.

Post-Approval Regulation

Any products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA,
including record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the drug and other reporting, advertising and promotion restrictions. The FDA's rules for advertising and promotion
require, among other things, that our promotion be fairly balanced and adequately substantiated by clinical studies, and that we not promote our products for unapproved uses. We must also submit
appropriate new and supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. On its own initiative, the FDA may require
changes to the labeling of an approved drug if it becomes aware of new safety information that the agency believes should be included in the approved drug's labeling. The FDA also enforces the
requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which, among other things, imposes various requirements in connection with the distribution of product samples to physicians.

In
addition to inspections related to manufacturing, we are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies related to the other regulatory
requirements that apply to marketed drugs manufactured or distributed by us. The FDA also may conduct periodic inspections regarding our review and reporting of adverse events, or related to
compliance with the requirements of the PDMA concerning the handling of drug samples. When the FDA conducts an inspection, the inspectors will identify any deficiencies they believe exist in the form
of a notice of inspectional observations. The observations may be more or less significant. If we receive a notice of inspectional observations, we likely will be required to respond in writing, and
may be required to undertake corrective and preventive actions in order to address the FDA's concerns.

There
are a variety of state laws and regulations that apply in the states or localities where JAKAFI and our drug candidates are or may be marketed. For example, we must comply with
state laws that require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products in that state, including, in certain states, manufacturers and distributors who ship
products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. Some states also impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to establish the
pedigree of product in the chain of distribution, including some states that require manufacturers and others to adopt new technology capable of tracking and tracing product as it moves through the
distribution chain. Any applicable state or local regulations may hinder our ability to market, or increase the cost of marketing, our products in those states or localities.

The
FDA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted which could impose additional burdens or limitations on our ability to market products after approval.
Moreover, increased attention to the containment of health care costs in the United States and in foreign markets could result in new government regulations which could have a material adverse effect
on our business. We









cannot
predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation which might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad.

Marketing Exclusivity

The FDA may grant five years of exclusivity in the United States for the approval of NDAs for new chemical entities, and three years of
exclusivity for supplemental NDAs, for among other things, new indications, dosages or dosage forms of an existing drug if new clinical investigations that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant
are essential to the approval of the supplemental application. Additionally, six months of marketing exclusivity in the United States is available if, in response to a written request from the FDA, a
sponsor submits and the agency accepts requested information relating to the use of the approved drug in the pediatric population. The six month pediatric exclusivity is added to any existing patent
or non-patent exclusivity period for which the drug is eligible. Orphan drug products are also eligible for pediatric exclusivity if the FDA requests and the company completes pediatric clinical
trials. Under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, the FDA may grant 12 years of data exclusivity for innovative biological products.

Health Law Compliance

There
are also an increasing number of state laws that require manufacturers to make reports to those states on certain pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the state
authorities.

Healthcare Reform and Reimbursement and Pricing Controls

There has been an increased focus on drug pricing in recent years in the United States. Although there are no direct government price
controls over private sector purchases in the United States, there are rebates and other financial requirements for federal and state health care programs. The Medicare

















products
may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits and may
limit or restrict reimbursement. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, and prescription drugs in particular, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being
erected to the entry of new products, as exemplified by the actions of the National Institute for Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom, which evaluates the data supporting new medicines and
passes reimbursement recommendations to the government. In addition, in some countries cross-border imports from low-priced markets (parallel imports) exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a
country.

Manufacturing

Our manufacturing strategy is to contract with third parties to manufacture the raw materials, our active pharmaceutical ingredients,
or API, and finished solid dose products for clinical and commercial uses. We currently do not operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of JAKAFI or our drug candidates.
In addition, we expect for the foreseeable future to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of the raw materials, API and finished drug product for any drugs that
we successfully develop and are approved for commercial sale. In this manner, we continue to build and maintain our supply chain and quality assurance resources.

Manufacturing of our Products

Our supply chain for manufacturing raw materials, API and drug product ready for distribution and commercialization is a multi-step
international process. Establishing and managing the supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships.

We
contract with third parties to manufacture our drug candidates and JAKAFI for clinical and commercial purposes. Third-party manufacturers supply us with raw materials, and other
third-party manufacturers convert these raw materials into API or convert the API into final dosage form. For most of our drug candidates, once our raw materials are produced, we rely on one third
party to manufacture the API, another to make finished drug product and a third to package and label the
finished product. For ruxolitinib phosphate, the API for JAKAFI, we use and rely on a single third-party contract manufacturer in the United States and have qualified a second manufacturer for the
supply of ruxolitinib phosphate.

We
also rely on third-party contract manufacturers to tablet or capsulate all of our active pharmaceutical ingredients for clinical and commercial uses. For example, we use and rely on a
single third-party manufacturer to tablet and manufacture the finished product of JAKAFI. We are in the process of qualifying a second manufacturer for the commercial supply of JAKAFI, however, there
is no assurance that we will be able to identify and qualify a second source of supply for JAKAFI tablets on a timely basis.

We
may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of any of our raw materials, drug candidates, ruxolitinib phosphate, or JAKAFI if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity
or capability to manufacture our products according to our schedule and specifications. If any of these single source suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with API or finished
product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply which could have a material adverse effect
on our business.

We
have established a quality assurance program intended to ensure that our third-party manufacturers and service providers produce materials and provide services, when applicable, in
accordance with the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations.

For
our future products, we intend to continue to establish third-party suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of our drug candidates to undertake clinical trials and to
manufacture sufficient quantities of any product that is approved for commercial sale. If we are unable to contract for large scale









manufacturing
with third parties on acceptable terms for our future products or develop manufacturing capabilities internally, our ability to conduct large scale clinical trials and meet customer
demand for commercial products will be adversely affected.

Third-party Manufacturers

Our third-party manufacturers are independent entities, under contract with us, who are subject to their own unique operational and
financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or
cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be
adversely affected.

We
believe the technology used to manufacture our products is proprietary. For products manufactured by our third-party manufacturers, we have licensed the necessary aspects of this
manufacturing technology that we believe is proprietary to us to enable them to manufacture the products for us. We have agreements with these third-party manufacturers that are intended to restrict
these manufacturers from using or revealing our technology, but we cannot be certain that these third-party manufacturers will comply with these restrictions.

While
we believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to manufacture ruxolitinib phosphate and distribute JAKAFI, and
that supply of materials that cannot be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning, there is always a risk that we may underestimate demand, and that our manufacturing capacity through
third-party manufacturers may not be sufficient. In addition, because of the significant lead times involved in our supply chain for ruxolitinib phosphate, we may have less flexibility to adjust our
supply in response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times.

Access to Supplies and Materials

Our third-party manufacturers need access to certain supplies and products to manufacture JAKAFI and our drug candidates. If delivery
of material from their suppliers were interrupted for any reason or if they are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of raw materials used to manufacture JAKAFI and our drug candidates, they may
be unable to ship JAKAFI for commercial supply or to supply our drug candidates in development for clinical trials. For example, currently raw materials used to manufacture ruxolitinib phosphate, the
API in JAKAFI, are supplied by Chinese-based companies. As a result, an international trade dispute between China and the United States or any other actions by the Chinese government that would limit
or prevent Chinese companies from supplying these materials would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our products to meet market needs and have a material and adverse effect on our
operating results.

Agenus

Under our pending collaboration with Agenus, Agenus has primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, including selecting and
monitoring third-party manufacturers. Manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is a more complex process than manufacturing small molecule drugs and subject to additional risks. The
process of manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is highly susceptible to product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment,
vendor or operator error, inconsistency in yields, variability in product characteristics, and difficulties in scaling the production process. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes
could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our product candidates or in the









manufacturing
facilities in which our product candidates are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination.

Research and Development

Since our inception, we have made substantial investments in research and technology development. During the years ended
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we incurred research and development expenses of $347.5 million, $260.4 million and $210.4 million, respectively.

Human Resources

As of December 31, 2014, we had 588 employees, including 337 in research and development, 42 in medical affairs, 133 in sales
and marketing and 76 in operations support, finance and administrative positions. Of these employees, 178 employees have advanced technical degrees, including 19 MDs and 159 doctorate degrees.
None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and management considers relations with our employees to be good.

Available Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1991 and our website is located atwww.incyte.com.
We make available free of charge on our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto
are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.









