Item 1.Business

This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements relate
to future periods, future events or our future operating or financial plans or performance. These statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "expects,"
"believes," "intends," "anticipates," "estimates," "plans," "may," or "will," or the negative of these terms, and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include statements as
to:

•

the discovery, development, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of our compounds and
our product candidates;

•

focus on our drug discovery, development and commercialization
efforts;

•

conducting clinical trials internally, with collaborators, or with clinical research
organizations;

•

our collaboration and strategic relationship strategy; anticipated benefits and disadvantages of
entering into collaboration agreements;

•

our licensing, investment and commercialization
strategies;

•

the regulatory approval process, including obtaining U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other
international health authorities approval for our products in the United States and abroad;

•

the safety, effectiveness and potential benefits and indications of our product candidates and
other compounds under development;

•

the timing and size of our clinical trials; the compounds expected to enter clinical trials;
timing of clinical trial results;

•

our ability to manage expansion of our drug discovery and development
operations;

•

future required expertise relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and
marketing;

•

obtaining and terminating licenses to products, compounds or technology, or other intellectual
property rights;

•

the receipt from or payments pursuant to collaboration or license agreements resulting from
milestones or royalties;

•

the decrease in revenues from our information product-related
activities;

•

plans to develop and commercialize products on our
own;

•

plans to use third party manufacturers;

•

expected expenses and expenditure levels; expected uses of cash; expected revenues and sources of
revenues;

•

expected losses; fluctuation of losses;

•

our profitability; the adequacy of our capital resources to continue
operations;

•

the need to raise additional capital;

•

the costs associated with resolving matters in
litigation;

•

our expectations regarding competition;

•

our investments, including anticipated expenditures, losses and
expenses;

•

our patent prosecution and maintenance efforts;
and

•

our indebtedness, and debt service obligations.









These forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events, are based on assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and include, but are not limited to:

•

our ability to discover, develop, formulate, manufacture and commercialize a drug candidate or
product;

•

the risk of unanticipated delays in research and development
efforts;

•

the risk that previous preclinical testing or clinical trial results are not necessarily
indicative of future clinical trial results;

•

risks relating to the conduct of our clinical
trials;

•

changing regulatory requirements;

•

the risk of adverse safety findings;

•

the risk that results of our clinical trials do not support submission of a marketing approval
application for our product candidates;

•

the risk of significant delays or costs in obtaining regulatory
approvals;

•

risks relating to our reliance on third party manufacturers, collaborators, and clinical research
organizations;

•

risks relating to the development of new products and their use by us and our current and
potential collaborators;

•

risks relating to our inability to control the development of out-licensed drug
compounds or drug candidates;

•

risks relating to our collaborators' ability to develop and commercialize product
candidates;

•

costs associated with prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims and other
intellectual property rights;

•

our ability to maintain or obtain adequate product liability and other insurance
coverage;

•

the risk that our product candidates may not obtain or maintain regulatory
approval;

•

the impact of technological advances and
competition;

•

the ability to compete against third parties with greater resources than
ours;

•

risks relating to changes in pricing and reimbursements in the markets in which we may
compete;

•

competition to develop and commercialize similar drug
products;

•

our ability to obtain patent protection and freedom to operate for our discoveries and to continue
to be effective in expanding our patent coverage;

•

the impact of changing laws on our patent
portfolio;

•

developments in and expenses relating to
litigation;

•

our ability to in-license potential drug compounds or drug candidates or other
technology;

•

our substantial leverage and limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and incur
liens on our assets imposed by our debt obligations;

•

our ability to obtain additional capital when
needed;

•

fluctuations in net cash provided and used by operating, financing and investing
activities;









•our history of operating losses; and•the risks set forth under "Risk Factors."

Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Except as required by federal securities laws, we
undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future.

In this report all references to "Incyte," "we," "us," "our" or the "Company" mean Incyte Corporation and our subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the
term means only the parent company.

Incyte is our registered trademark. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Overview

Incyte is a drug discovery and development company, focused on developing small molecule drugs to treat serious unmet medical needs.
Our pipeline is focused in the areas of oncology and inflammation and includes compounds in various stages of development, ranging from preclinical to late-stage development.

Our
two most advanced programs involve our janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors. Oral INCB18424 is in clinical development for the treatment of several myeloproliferative neoplasms and is part
of a collaboration agreement with Novartis International Pharmaceutical Ltd. in which Novartis received exclusive development and commercialization rights outside of the United States to
INCB18424 for hematologic and oncology indications, including all hematological malignancies, solid tumors and myeloproliferative diseases. The World Health Organization has accepted ruxolitinib as
the International Nonproprietary Name for INCB18424. We intend to submit a New Drug Application (NDA) for ruxolitinib for the treatment of myelofibrosis in the first half of 2011. We are planning to
launch our first commercial product in late 2011 if our NDA is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

Oral
INCB28050, (now known as LY3009104) is in clinical development for rheumatoid arthritis by Eli Lilly and Company under a collaboration agreement. Lilly received exclusive worldwide
development and commercialization rights for the compound for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases; however, last year we exercised our co-development rights for rheumatoid arthritis in
exchange for royalty rates ranging up to the high twenties. We believe these strategic relationships increase the likelihood of the successful development and commercialization of these compounds.

We
are engaged in a number of other development programs evaluating our novel cMET, IDO and Sheddase inhibitors and are also continuing to invest in our discovery efforts.









Our
pipeline includes the following compounds:

Target/Drug CompoundIndicationDevelopment StatusJAK1/JAK2Ruxolitinib(INCB18424)(1)MyelofibrosisPhase IIIRuxolitinib(INCB18424)(1)Polycythemia VeraPhase IIIRuxolitinib(INCB18424)(1)Essential ThrombocythemiaPhase IIRuxolitinib(INCB18424)(1)Solid Tumors/Other Hematologic MalignanciesPhase I/IIINCB18424(2)PsoriasisPhase IIbLY3009104(INCB28050)(3)Rheumatoid ArthritisPhase IIbc-METINCB28060(4)Solid TumorsPhase I/IISheddaseINCB7839Breast CancerPhase IIIDOINCB24360Solid TumorsPhase I/IIHSD1INCB13739Type 2 DiabetesPhase IIb

(1)We
licensed rights outside the United States to Novartis and retained U.S. rights(2)This
compound is a topical formulation; all others are an oral formulation(3)We
licensed worldwide rights to Lilly and have elected to co-develop with Lilly and we retain a co-promotion option(4)We
licensed worldwide rights to Novartis and retained co-development and co-promotion options

Clinical Programs

JAK Programs for Myeloproliferative Neoplasms, Oncology and Inflammation

The JAK family is composed of four tyrosine kinases—JAK1, JAK2, JAK3 and Tyk2—that are involved in signaling
triggered by a number of cytokines and growth factors. JAKs are central to a number of biologic processes, including the formation and development of blood cells and the regulation of immune
functions. Dysregulation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway has been associated with a number of diseases, including myeloproliferative neoplasms, other hematological malignancies, solid
cancers, rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis. Myeloproliferative neoplasms (also referred to as myeloproliferative disorders) are a closely related group of blood diseases in which blood cells,
specifically platelets, white blood cells, and red blood cells, grow or act abnormally in the bone marrow. These diseases include myelofibrosis, polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia.

We
have discovered multiple potent, selective and orally bioavailable JAK inhibitors that are selective for JAK1 and JAK2. Our lead JAK inhibitor for hematologic and oncology
indications, ruxolitinib, is in Phase III development for myelofibrosis, Phase III development for polycythemia vera and Phase II development for essential thrombocythemia. It is
also in Phase I/II development for other solid tumors and other hematologic malignancies and in Phase IIb development as a topical treatment for psoriasis. Our lead JAK inhibitor for
inflammation, LY3009104, is currently in Phase IIb development by Lilly as an oral treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, topical INCB18424 is in Phase IIb development for the
treatment of psoriasis.









Myelofibrosis.Myelofibrosis is a rare but serious, life-threatening condition. Myelofibrosis, considered the most serious of the
myeloproliferative neoplasms, can occur either as primary myelofibrosis, or as secondary myelofibrosis that develops in a proportion of polycythemia vera patients, and to a lesser extent in patients
with essential thrombocythemia. Polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia are also myeloproliferative neoplasms.

Most
myelofibrosis patients have enlarged spleens and many suffer from debilitating symptoms, including fatigue, abdominal discomfort, pruritus (itching), night sweats and cachexia
(weight loss). There are currently no FDA-approved therapies for myelofibrosis.

There
is a clear unmet medical need for new therapies that better address the clinical manifestations of myelofibrosis. We estimate, based on the available literature as well as our own
research using insurance claims databases, that there are currently 16,000 - 18,500 myelofibrosis patients in the United States.

In
July 2009, we obtained a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) agreement from the FDA for the Phase III registration trial, COMFORT-I, for ruxolitinib for
myelofibrosis. Based on the SPA agreement, we expect this to be the only pivotal trial required for approval in the United States.

COMFORT-I
is a randomized double-blind Phase III trial comparing the efficacy and safety of ruxolitinib to placebo in 309 patients with primary myelofibrosis,
post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis and involving over 100 clinical sites in the United States, Australia and Canada. In late
December 2010, we announced top-line results from COMFORT-I. The primary endpoint was the response rate defined as the percentage of patients achieving a 35% or greater
reduction in spleen volume at 24 weeks as measured by magnetic resonance imaging or computerized tomography, comparing the rates in patients receiving ruxolitinib or placebo. The response rate
was 42% in patients randomized to ruxolitinib versus less than 1% of patients randomized to placebo. High levels of statistical significance were also achieved for the key secondary endpoints based on
symptomatic improvement as measured by the modified Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form Diary. The safety profile of ruxolitinib was consistent with previous studies, with the most common adverse
effects being reversible thrombocytopenia and anemia.

COMFORT-II
is a second Phase III trial being conducted by Novartis in Europe. It is a randomized, controlled, open-label study designed to evaluate the
efficacy, safety and tolerability of ruxolitinib as compared to the best-available therapy in patients with primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis or
post-essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis. COMFORT-II has enrolled 219 patients and involves approximately 55 clinical sites in 9 European countries: Belgium,
Austria, France, Italy, Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. The primary efficacy endpoint in COMFORT-II is the proportion of patients achieving at least 35% reduction in
spleen volume from baseline to week 48. COMFORT-II is the pivotal trial for European Marketing Authorization (MAA). We expect that supportive data from this clinical trial will be included
in our NDA. Novartis has responsibility for the MAA submission, which is targeted for mid-year.

We
have received orphan drug designation from the FDA for ruxolitinib as a treatment for myelofibrosis and orphan medicinal product designation from the European Medicines Agency for
ruxolitinib for the treatment of chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis and also for the treatment of
myelofibrosis secondary to polycythemia vera or essential thrombocythemia. We have received orphan drug designation from the FDA for ruxolitinib for the treatment of polycythemia vera and essential
thrombocythemia.

Polycythemia Vera and Essential Thrombocythemia.Polycythemia vera is a rare but serious myeloproliferative neoplasm and occurs when
the bone marrow
produces too many blood cells, especially red blood cells. Polycythemia vera patients can have similar symptoms as myelofibrosis patients, including enlarged spleens and debilitating symptoms such as
fatigue, abdominal discomfort, pruritus (itching), night sweats and cachexia (weight loss). While there are currently no FDA-approved therapies for polycythemia vera, several treatments
are used to manage the signs and symptoms of the disease, including the removal











of
blood (phlebotomy) and treatment with myelosuppressive therapies. About a third of the patients can become resistant to or intolerant of these approaches and there is an unmet medical need for new
therapies to treat this subset of patients. We estimate, based on the available literature and published databases, that there are currently 95,000 polycythemia vera patients in the United States.

In
September 2010, we obtained an SPA agreement from the FDA for a Phase III clinical trial for ruxolitinib in patients with advanced polycythemia vera. In October, we initiated
with Novartis a joint global Phase III trial, RESPONSE, in patients who are resistant to or intolerant of hydroxyurea. The trial is a randomized, open label trial that will compare the efficacy
and safety of ruxolitinib to best available therapy. The primary composite endpoint is both phlebotomy independence and at least a 35% spleen volume reduction at week 32. Key secondary endpoints are
the proportion of patients who both achieve the primary response endpoint and maintain response for an additional 48 weeks and the proportion of patients achieving complete hematologic
remission at week 32. The trial is expected to include approximately 300 patients. Novartis opened the trial in countries outside of the United States in early 2011.

In
December 2010, we presented long-term clinical results from an ongoing open-label Phase II trial for ruxolitinib in patients with advanced polycythemia
vera and essential thrombocythemia. The data, showing long-term clinical activity, including reduction in spleen size, phlebotomy independence (in patients with polycythemia vera) and
improvement in blood counts lasting up to 27 months, were presented in an oral session at the 52nd American Society of Hematology Annual Meeting. With a median duration of
21 months of follow-up, clinical responses observed in 34 patients enrolled with polycythemia vera included durable improvements in splenomegaly (spleen enlargement), hematocrit
control and symptomatic burden, including pruritus (itching), night sweats and bone pain. Clinical responses seen in 39 patients enrolled with essential thrombocythemia included long-term
reductions in elevated platelet and white blood cell counts, and, when present, splenomegaly and constitutional symptoms. Ruxolitinib was well-tolerated.

Additional Clinical Activities in Oncology.Additional clinical studies are planned to evaluate the use of ruxolitinib in other
malignant diseases.
We anticipate the initiation of a Phase II trial in lymphoma and a Phase II trial in pancreatic cancer in 2011.

There
are several ongoing investigator sponsored Phase I/II trials evaluating ruxolitinib in other indications. The Children's Oncology Group, in collaboration with the National
Cancer Institute, is conducting a pediatric Phase I/II trial in patients with solid tumors/hematological malignancies. M.D. Anderson Cancer Center is conducting two trials, a Phase II
trial in patients with refractory/relapsed hematologic malignancies and a Phase I/II trial in patients with acute leukemias (acute lymphocytic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia).

Rheumatoid Arthritis.Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease characterized by aberrant or abnormal immune mechanisms that lead
to joint
inflammation and swelling and, in some patients, the progressive destruction of joints. Rheumatoid arthritis can also affect connective tissue in the skin and organs of the body.

Current
rheumatoid arthritis treatments include the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs such as
methotrexate, and the newer biological response modifiers that target tumor necrosis factor, a pro-inflammatory cytokine implicated in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. None of
these approaches to treatment is curative and, therefore, there is an unmet need for new safe and effective treatment options for these patients. Rheumatoid arthritis is estimated to affect about 1%
of the world population.

We
have a second JAK1 and JAK2 inhibitor, LY3009104, which is the lead compound in our inflammation program and subject to our collaboration agreement with Lilly. In November 2010, we
presented the final six-month clinical data from the dose ranging, placebo-controlled Phase IIa trial of LY3009104 in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis at the 2010 American
College of Rheumatology / Association of Rheumatology Health Professionals Annual Scientific Meeting.









Results
from the 125-patient Phase IIa trial demonstrated that all three doses, 4, 7 and 10 milligrams once a day, of oral LY3009104 improved on the primary endpoint,
the percent of patients achieving American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20 improvement, over the full 24-week treatment period. Evidence of improvement was seen as early as the first
assessment at two weeks and efficacy results continued to improve from week 12 to week 24 across ACR response categories as well. Responses were similar in both biologic-experienced and
biologic-naïve patients and adverse events for all three doses were predominantly mild-to-moderate with frequencies similar to placebo.

Based
upon these results, in July 2010 we exercised our option to co-develop this compound in RA. We will be responsible for 30% of all future development costs for this
indication through regulatory approval in exchange for royalties ranging up to the high twenties on potential future sales. In October 2010, Lilly initiated a Phase IIb trial in patients poorly
controlled on methotrexate. This trial is a global, dose-ranging study expected to involve 270 patients with active rheumatoid arthritis.

Psoriasis (Topical Formulation).Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes visible scaling and inflammation as well as pain, swelling,
heat, and
redness. Most psoriasis patients have patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales that can occur on the elbows, knees, other parts of the legs, scalp, lower back, face, palms, and soles of the
feet. Market research suggests that neither physicians nor patients are satisfied with existing psoriasis treatments primarily because these require constant monitoring to balance safety and efficacy
outcomes, and many topical treatments are limited to short-term use. There is clear unmet need for a better tolerated and effective topical treatment. The United States psoriasis market
consists of approximately six million patients, of which mild to moderate patients, who tend to prefer topical treatments, account for approximately 85% of the market.

Results
from a multi-center three-month Phase IIb trial comparing three once-daily doses of topical INCB18424 to vehicle in 200 patients with
mild-to-moderate psoriasis were disclosed at both oral and poster presentations at the Society of Dermatology Meeting, in May 2010. We are seeking a collaborator for the
development of this compound.

c-MET for Solid Tumors

c-MET is a clinically validated receptor kinase cancer target. Abnormal c-MET activation in cancer correlates
with poor prognosis. Dysregulation of the c-MET pathway triggers tumor growth, formation of new blood vessels that supply the tumor with nutrients, and causes cancer to spread to other
organs. Dysregulation of the c-MET pathway is seen in many types of cancers, including kidney, liver, stomach, breast, and brain.

Several
small molecule c-MET kinase inhibitors have demonstrated clinical efficacy in a number of cancers; however, these molecules have limited potency and are relatively
non-selective, which could lead to off-target toxicities. We believe our lead c-MET inhibitor, INCB28060, has the requisite properties to overcome these
limitations, including greater selectivity, improved potency and more effective inhibition of c-MET. Under our agreement, Novartis received worldwide exclusive development and
commercialization rights to INCB28060 and certain back-up compounds in all indications. We initiated a Phase I/II clinical trial in early 2010 that is expected to include
approximately 50 patients with solid tumors. We anticipate that this trial will conclude in 2011 and we will then transition the program to Novartis.

Sheddase Inhibitor Program for Solid Tumors

Breast cancer is the second leading cause of death from cancer in American women. HER2-positive breast cancer is a breast
cancer that tests positive for a protein called human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), which promotes the growth of cancer cells. In about one of every four breast cancers, the cancer cells
make an excess of HER2 due to a gene mutation. HER2-positive breast cancers tend to be more aggressive than other types of breast cancer. While there are treatments that specifically
target HER2, there is a subset of HER2-positive patients referred to as p95HER2-positive. These











p95HER2-positive
patients tend to be resistant to trastuzumab (Herceptin)-based therapies and have poor clinical outcomes as compared to other HER2-positive patients. There is
an unmet patient need for new treatments that can be used in this subset of HER2-positive patients. We estimate that approximately 20%-40% of HER2-positive patients
are p95HER2-positive.

We
have identified novel, potent, and orally available small-molecule inhibitors of sheddase. Sheddase is an enzyme that is believed to activate all four epidermal growth factor
receptors that play a key role in the growth and survival of multiple tumor types, including breast, colorectal, and non-small lung cancers. INCB7839, our lead sheddase compound, is in
Phase II clinical development for breast cancer, evaluating its effectiveness when used in combination with trastuzumab. In June 2010, we presented additional data from this ongoing
Phase II clinical trial involving 66 patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. These results suggest that, when compared to a historical control study of trastuzumab as
monotherapy, INCB7839 in combination with trastuzumab may provide improvements in time to progression and response rate in p95HER2-positive patients. In an effort to confirm this
hypothesis with a larger data set, we have been conducting an analysis of tissue samples from HER2-positive breast cancer patients for p95 assay validation and to better define the
expected rate of progression in this subset of patients. If this biomarker research proves supportive, we intend to meet with the FDA to
determine if a Phase III program in p95HER2-positive breast cancer patients could serve as the basis for regulatory approval.

IDO for Solid Tumors

Solid tumors are named for the type of cells that form them, for example, sarcomas, carcinomas, and lymphomas. Frequently, the term
"solid tumors" collectively refers to cancer in major organs. The American Cancer Society estimates that more than 1,500,000 Americans will be diagnosed with cancer in 2010, of which more than 830,000
patients will be diagnosed with solid tumors such as lung, prostate, colon, rectum or breast cancer. The American Cancer Society also estimates that approximately 560,000 patients are expected
ultimately to die from cancer in 2010.

The
enzyme, indoleamine 2, 3-dioxygenase, IDO, is a key regulator of the mechanisms that are responsible for allowing tumors to escape from a patient's immune surveillance.
IDO expression by tumor cells, or by antigen presenting cells such as macrophages and dendritic cells in tumors, creates an environment in which tumor specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes are rendered
functionally inactive or are no longer able to attack a patient's cancer cells. By inhibiting IDO, it is proposed that this "brake" on the anti-tumor immune response is removed, allowing
anti-tumor specific cytotoxic T cells, generated in a patient spontaneously in response to the tumor, or through a therapy designed to stimulate the immune response, to have greater
anti-tumor efficacy.

We
believe our compound, INCB24360, represents a novel, potent, and selective inhibitor of the enzyme IDO. It is efficacious in multiple mouse models of cancer and has been
well-tolerated in preclinical safety studies. We initiated a Phase I/II clinical trial in patients with solid tumors in the third quarter of 2010.

11ßHSD1 Program for Type 2 Diabetes and Related Disorders

We have developed a broad chemically diverse series of novel proprietary oral inhibitors of 11ßHSD1, an enzyme that
converts the biologically-inactive steroid cortisone into the potent biologically-active hormone cortisol. Cortisol acts as a functional antagonist of insulin action in multiple tissue types,
including the liver, adipose, skeletal muscle, and pancreas. Inhibition of 11ßHSD1 offers the potential to reduce insulin resistance and restore glycemic control in type 2 diabetes,
and may also offer potential benefits in allied conditions such as dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis, and coronary heart disease.









Because
diabetes is outside of our core focus in oncology and inflammation, we are seeking a collaborator for this program.

Discovery

We have a number of early discovery programs at various stages of preclinical testing.

License Agreements

Novartis

In November 2009, we entered into a Collaboration and License Agreement with Novartis. Under the terms of the agreement, Novartis
received exclusive development and commercialization rights outside of the United States to ruxolitinib and certain back-up compounds for hematologic and oncology indications, including
all hematological malignancies, solid tumors and myeloproliferative diseases. We retained exclusive development and commercialization rights to ruxolitinib in the United States and in certain other
indications. Novartis also received worldwide exclusive development and commercialization rights to our c-MET inhibitor compound INCB28060 and certain back-up compounds in all
indications. We retained options to co-develop and to co-promote INCB28060 in the United States.

Under
this agreement, we received an upfront payment and immediate milestone payment totaling $210 million and were initially eligible to receive additional payments of up to
approximately $1.1 billion
if defined development and commercialization milestones are achieved. In 2010, we received $50 million in milestone payments for the initiation of the global Phase III trial, RESPONSE,
in patients with polycythemia vera. We also could receive tiered, double digit royalties on future ruxolitinib sales outside of the United States. Each company is responsible for costs relating to the
development and commercialization of the JAK inhibitor compound in its respective territories, with costs of collaborative studies shared equally. Novartis is responsible for all costs relating to the
development and commercialization of the c-MET inhibitor compound after the initial Phase I clinical trial.

The
Novartis agreement will continue on a program-by-program basis until Novartis has no royalty payment obligations with respect to such program or, if earlier,
the termination of the agreement or any program in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The agreement may be terminated in its entirety or on a program-by-program basis
by Novartis for convenience. The agreement may also be terminated by either party under certain other circumstances, including material breach.

Lilly

In December 2009, we entered into a License, Development and Commercialization Agreement with Eli Lilly and Company. Under the terms of
the agreement, Lilly received exclusive worldwide development and commercialization rights to LY3009104 and certain back-up compounds for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. We received
an initial payment of $90 million, and were initially eligible to receive additional payments of up to $665 million based on the achievement of defined development, regulatory and
commercialization milestones. In 2010, we received $49 million in milestone payments from Lilly. We also could receive tiered, double-digit royalty payments on future global sales with rates
ranging up to 20% if the product is successfully commercialized.

We
retained options to co-develop our JAK1/JAK2 inhibitors with Lilly on a compound-by-compound and indication-by-indication
basis. Lilly will be responsible for all costs relating to the development and commercialization of the compounds unless we elect to co-develop any compounds or indications. If we elect to
co-develop any compounds and/or indications, we would be responsible for funding 30% of the associated future global development costs from the initiation of a Phase IIb trial. We
would receive an incremental royalty rate increase across all tiers resulting in effective royalty rates ranging up to the high twenties on potential future global sales for compounds and/or
indications that we elect to co-develop. We











also
retained an option to co-promote products in the United States. In July 2010, we elected to co-develop LY3009104 with Lilly in rheumatoid arthritis and we are
responsible for funding 30% of the associated future global development costs for this indication from the initiation of a Phase IIb trial through regulatory approval. The Lilly agreement will
continue until Lilly no longer has any royalty payment obligations or, if earlier, the termination of the agreement in accordance with its terms. The agreement may be terminated by Lilly for
convenience, and may also be terminated under certain other circumstances, including material breach.

Pfizer

In January 2006, we entered into a Collaborative Research and License Agreement with Pfizer Inc. for the pursuit of our CCR2
antagonist program. Pfizer gained worldwide development and commercialization rights to our portfolio of CCR2 antagonist compounds. Pfizer's rights extend to the full scope of potential indications,
with the exception of multiple sclerosis and autoimmune nephritides, where we retained worldwide rights, along with certain compounds. We do not have obligations to Pfizer on pre-clinical
development candidates we select for pursuit in these indications. The agreement will terminate upon the expiration of the last to expire of patent rights licensed under the agreement. Prior to such
expiration, either party can terminate the agreement for the uncured material breach of the agreement by the other party or for the insolvency of the other party. In addition, Pfizer may terminate the
agreement at any time upon 90 days' notice. We received an upfront nonrefundable, non-creditable payment of $40.0 million in January 2006 and are eligible to receive
additional future development and milestone payments. We received a $3.0 million milestone payment from Pfizer in 2007 and a $3.0 million milestone payment from Pfizer in 2010.

Incyte's Approach to Drug Discovery and Development

Our productivity in drug discovery and development is primarily a result of our core competency in medicinal chemistry which is tightly
integrated with, and supported by, an experienced team of biologists with expertise in multiple therapeutic areas. As a number of our compounds have progressed into clinical development, we have also
built a clinical development and regulatory team. This team utilizes clinical research organizations (CROs), expert scientific advisory boards, and leading consultants and suppliers in relevant drug
development areas in an effort to conduct our clinical trials efficiently and effectively, while maintaining strategic control of the design and management of our programs.

To
succeed in our objective to create a pipeline of novel, orally available drugs that address serious unmet medical needs, we have established a broad range of discovery capabilities
in-house, including target validation, high-throughput screening, medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, and pharmacological and ADME (absorption, distribution,
metabolism and excretion) assessment. We augment these capabilities through collaborations with academic and contract laboratory resources with relevant expertise.

We
select drug targets with strong preclinical or clinical validation in areas where we have the potential to generate either first-in-class molecules or
compounds that are highly differentiated from existing treatments.

Our
chemistry and biology efforts are highly integrated and are characterized by the rapid generation of relevant data on a broad and diverse range of compounds for each therapeutic
target we pursue. This process allows our scientists to better understand the potency and selectivity of the compounds, how they are likely to be absorbed and eliminated in the body, and to assess the
potential safety profile of the compounds. We believe that this approach, along with stringent criteria for the selection of clinical candidates, allows us to select appropriate candidates for
clinical development and assess key characteristics required for success.









Given
our chemistry-driven discovery process, our pipeline has grown to encompass multiple therapeutic areas, primarily in the areas of oncology and inflammation. We conduct a limited
number of discovery programs in parallel at any one time. This focus allows us to allocate resources to our selected programs at a level that we believe is competitive with much larger pharmaceutical
companies. We believe this level of resource allocation, applied to the discovery process outlined above, has been a critical competitive advantage in advancing our product pipeline.

Additionally,
in all of our programs we strive to generate a broad range of proprietary compounds which we believe enhances the overall probability of success for our programs and
creates the potential for multiple products.

Once
our compounds reach clinical development, our objective, whenever possible, is to rapidly progress the lead candidate into a proof-of-concept Phase II
clinical trial to quickly assess the therapeutic potential of the clinical candidate itself and its underlying mechanism. This information is then used to evaluate the commercial potential of the
compound, the most appropriate indication or indications to pursue, and whether to pursue any development on our own or seek a strategic relationship for the compound.

Incyte's Development Teams

Our development teams are responsible for ensuring that our clinical candidates are expeditiously progressed from preclinical
development and IND-enabling studies into human testing. To keep pace with the growth in our clinical pipeline, we have added new members to the development teams by internal transfers and
by recruiting new employees with expertise in drug development including clinical trial design, statistics, regulatory affairs, medical affairs and project management. We have also built core internal
process chemistry and formulation teams using this same strategy. Rather than build extensive infrastructure, we work with external CROs with expertise in managing clinical trials, process chemistry,
product formulation, and the manufacture of clinical trial supplies to support our drug development efforts.

Commercial Strategy

Our strategy is to develop and commercialize our compounds on our own in selected markets when we believe a company of our size can
successfully compete, such as in myelofibrosis, other myeloproliferative neoplasms, other oncology indications and certain inflammatory conditions. We intend to file a New Drug Application with
the FDA to secure regulatory approval of ruxolitinib in myelofibrosis in the United States. We are building the marketing, medical and operational infrastructure to support commercialization of
ruxolitinib in myelofibrosis in the United States. In 2010, the marketing team focused the majority of its efforts on conducting quantitative and qualitative market research among physicians and
patients, initiating brand development work, and progressing development of the generic and trade names. We anticipate hiring approximately 60 sales representatives and 6 regional managers in the
second half of 2011 to support the expected launch of ruxolitinib.

For
rights outside the United States to ruxolitinib as well as for pipeline compounds that are outside of our core expertise or would require expensive clinical studies, we have
established or are seeking to establish collaborations or strategic relationships to support development and commercialization. We established a collaboration with Novartis in 2009 for rights in
certain indications outside of the United States to our JAK oncology program with ruxolitinib and specified backups, as well as worldwide rights to our c-MET inhibitor compound INCB28060.
We also established a collaboration with Lilly in 2009 for our JAK inflammation and autoimmune program with LY3009104 and specified back-ups, and with Pfizer in 2005 to advance our CCR2
antagonist program. We believe the key benefits to entering into strategic relationships include the potential to receive upfront payments and future milestones and royalties in exchange for certain
rights to our compounds, as well as the potential to expedite the development and commercialization of certain of our compounds.









Patents and Other Intellectual Property

We regard the protection of patents and other enforceable intellectual property rights that we own or license as critical to our
business and competitive position. Accordingly, we rely on patent, trade secret and copyright law, as well as nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, to protect our intellectual property. We
have established a patent portfolio of patents and patent applications owned by us that cover aspects of all our drug candidates. The patents and patent applications relating to our drug candidates
generally include claims directed to the drug candidates, methods of using the drug candidates, formulations of the drug candidates, pharmaceutical salt forms of the drug candidates, and methods of
manufacturing the drug candidates. Our policy is to pursue patent applications on inventions and discoveries we believe that are commercially important to the development and growth of our business.
The following table sets forth the status of the patents and patent applications in the United States, the European Union, and Japan, covering our drug candidates that have progressed into at least
Phase II clinical trials:

Drug Candidate (Target)Status of United States Patent Estate(Earliest Anticipated Expirations,Subject to Potential Extensionsand Payment of Maintenance Fees)Status of European Union andJapan Patent Estate(Earliest Anticipated Expirations,Subject to PotentialExtensions and Payment ofMaintenance Fees)INCB18424 (JAK)Granted and pending (2026)Applications pending (2026)INCB7839 (Sheddase)Granted and pending (2024)Applications pending (2024)LY3009104 (JAK)Applications pending (2026)Applications pending (2026)INCB13739 (HSD1)Granted and pending (2025)Applications pending (2025)

Patents
extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual
protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends on the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country.

We
may seek to license rights relating to technologies in connection with our drug discovery and development programs. Under these licenses, we may be required to pay
up-front fees, license fees, milestone payments and royalties on sales of future products.

Although
we believe our rights under patents and patent applications provide a competitive advantage, the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are highly
uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be able to develop patentable products or processes,
and may not be able to obtain patents in the United States or elsewhere from pending applications. Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be
valid or enforceable or may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us or provide us with a competitive advantage. Any patent or other intellectual property rights that we
own or obtain may be circumvented, challenged or invalidated by our competitors. Others may have patents that relate to our business or technology and that may prevent us from marketing our product
candidates unless we are able to obtain a license to those patents. In addition, litigation or other proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce patents, to
protect our other intellectual property rights, to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of third parties or to defend ourselves in patent or other intellectual property right
suits brought by third parties. We could incur substantial costs in such litigation or other proceedings. An adverse outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant
liability.

With
respect to proprietary information that is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality
agreements to protect our interests. While we require all employees, consultants and potential business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our
trade secrets or other proprietary











information.
Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets.

Competition

Our drug discovery and development activities face, and will continue to face, intense competition from organizations such as
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies. Our major competitors include fully integrated pharmaceutical companies that have
extensive drug discovery efforts and are developing novel small molecule pharmaceuticals. We face significant competition from organizations that are pursuing pharmaceuticals that are competitive with
our potential products.

Many
companies and institutions, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs
than we do. In addition, many competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in:

•drug discovery;•developing products;•undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials;•obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; and•manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling products.

Accordingly,
our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA and other regulatory approval or commercializing products before we do. If we commence commercial
product sales, we will be competing against companies with greater manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience.

In
addition, any drug candidate that we successfully develop may compete with existing therapies that have long histories of safe and effective use. Competition may also arise
from:

•other drug development technologies and methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease;•new small molecules; or•other classes of therapeutic agents.

Developments
by others may render our drug candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborative
arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for licenses to proprietary technology. These competitors,
either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing products that are more effective than ours.

Our
ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to:

•develop proprietary products;•develop and maintain products that reach the market first, are technologically superior to and/or are of lower cost than
other products in the market;•attract and retain scientific, product development and sales and marketing personnel;•obtain patent or other proprietary protection for our products and technologies;•obtain required regulatory approvals; and•manufacture, market, distribute and sell any products that we develop.









In
a number of countries, including in particular, developing countries, government officials and other groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs available at
a low cost. In some cases, governmental authorities have indicated that where pharmaceutical companies do not do so, their patents might not be enforceable to prevent generic competition. Some major
pharmaceutical companies have greatly reduced prices for their drugs in certain developing countries. If certain countries do not permit enforcement of any of our patents, sales of our products in
those countries, and in other countries by importation from low-price countries, could be reduced by generic competition or by parallel importation of our product. Alternatively,
governments in those countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products in those countries, thereby reducing our
product sales, or we could respond to governmental concerns by reducing prices for our products. In all of these situations, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

Government Regulation

The
steps generally required before a drug may be marketed in the United States include:

•preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with FDA's Good Laboratory Practice
regulations;•submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may
commence;•performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in three phases, as described below, to establish
the safety and efficacy of the drug for each indication;•submission of a new drug application to the FDA for review;•random inspections of clinical sites to ensure validity of clinical data around safety and efficacy•satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug is produced to
assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices;•FDA approval of the NDA; and•payment of user and establishment fees, if applicable.









Similar
requirements exist within foreign agencies as well. The time required to satisfy FDA requirements or similar requirements of foreign regulatory agencies may vary substantially
based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product or the targeted disease.

Preclinical
testing includes laboratory evaluation of product pharmacology, drug metabolism, and toxicity which includes animal studies, to assess potential safety and efficacy as well
as product chemistry, stability, formulation, development, and testing. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as
part of an IND. An IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time, the FDA raises concerns or questions about issues such as the conduct of
the clinical trials as outlined in the IND. In the latter case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding FDA concerns or questions before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot be sure
that submission of an IND will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence.

Clinical
trials involve the administration of the investigational drug or the marketed drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators and in accordance with good
clinical practices regulations covering the protection of human subjects. These regulations require all research subjects to provide informed consent. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols
detailing the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND and
each trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent ethics committee or institutional review board (IRB) before it can begin.

Clinical
trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined. Phase I usually involves the initial introduction of the
investigational drug into healthy volunteers to evaluate its safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion.

Phase II
usually involves clinical trials in a limited patient population to evaluate dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, and
evaluate and gain preliminary evidence of the efficacy of the drug for specific indications.

Phase III
clinical trials usually further evaluate clinical efficacy and safety by testing the drug in its final form in an expanded patient population, providing statistical
evidence of efficacy and safety, and providing an adequate basis for labeling.

We
cannot guarantee that Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing will be completed successfully within any specified period of time, if at all. Furthermore, we, the
IRB, or the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk.

As
a separate amendment to an IND, a clinical trial sponsor may submit a request for a special protocol assessment (SPA) from the FDA. Under the SPA procedure, a sponsor may seek the
FDA's agreement on the design and size of a clinical trial intended to form the primary basis of an effectiveness claim. If the FDA agrees in writing, its agreement may not be changed after the trial
begins, except in limited circumstances, such as when a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety and effectiveness of a product candidate is identified after a Phase III
clinical trial is commenced and agreement is obtained with the FDA. If the outcome of the trial is successful, the sponsor will ordinarily be able to rely on it as the primary basis for approval with
respect to effectiveness. The FDA, however, may make an approval decision based on a number of factors, including the degree of clinical benefit, and the FDA is not obligated to approve an NDA as a
result of an SPA, even if the clinical outcome is positive.

Even
after initial FDA approval has been obtained, further studies, including post-approval trials, or Phase IV studies, may be required to provide additional data and
will be required to gain approval for the sale of a product as a treatment for clinical indications other than those for which the product was initially tested and approved. Also, the FDA will require
post-approval reporting to monitor the side effects of the drug. Results of post-approval programs may limit or expand the indications for which the drug product











may
be marketed. Further, if there are any requests for modifications to the initial FDA approval for the drug, including changes in indication, manufacturing process, labeling or manufacturing
facilities, a supplemental NDA may be required to be submitted to the FDA.

The
length of time and related costs necessary to complete clinical trials varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying
interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials, or cause the costs of these clinical trials to
increase, include:

•slow patient enrollment due to the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility
criteria for the study, competition with clinical trials for other drug candidates or other factors;•inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials;•delays in approvals from a study site's IRB;•longer than anticipated treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness or determine the appropriate product dose;•lack of sufficient supplies of the drug candidate for use in clinical trials;•adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and•lack of effectiveness of the drug candidate being tested.

Any
drug is likely to produce some toxicities or undesirable side effects in animals and in humans when administered at sufficiently high doses and/or for sufficiently long periods of
time. Unacceptable toxicities or side effects may occur at any dose level, and at any time in the course of animal studies designed to identify unacceptable effects of a drug candidate, known as
toxicological studies, or in clinical trials of our potential products. The appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side effect could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, limit, delay
or abort the development of any of our drug candidates, and could ultimately prevent their marketing approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications.

The
FDA's fast track program is intended to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drug candidates intended for the treatment of serious or life-threatening
diseases and that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for these conditions. Under this program, the FDA can, for example, review portions of an NDA for a fast track product before
the entire application is complete, thus potentially beginning the review process at an earlier time.

We
cannot guarantee that the FDA will grant any of our requests for fast track designation, that any fast track designation would affect the time of review or that the FDA will approve
the NDA submitted for any of our drug candidates, whether or not fast track designation is granted. Additionally, FDA approval of a fast track product can include restrictions on the product's use or
distribution (such as permitting use only for specified medical conditions or limiting distribution to physicians or facilities with special training or experience). Approval of fast track products
can be conditioned on additional clinical trials after approval.

Sponsors
submit the results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials to the FDA as part of an NDA. NDAs must also contain extensive manufacturing information and
proposed labeling. Upon receipt, the FDA initially reviews the NDA to determine whether it is sufficiently complete to initiate a substantive review. If the FDA identifies deficiencies that would
preclude substantive review, the FDA will refuse to accept the NDA and will inform the sponsor of the deficiencies that must be corrected prior to resubmission. If the FDA accepts the submission for
substantive review, the FDA typically reviews NDAs within an accepted time frame. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA agrees to











review
NDAs under either a standard review or priority review. FDA procedures provide for priority review of NDAs submitted for drugs that, compared to currently marketed products, offer a significant
improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. The FDA seeks to review NDAs that are granted priority status more quickly than NDAs given standard review status. The FDA's stated
policy is to act on 90% of priority NDAs within six months of receipt. Although the FDA historically has not met these goals, the agency has made significant improvements in the timeliness of the
review process. NDA review often extends significantly beyond anticipated completion dates due to FDA requests for additional data or clarification, the FDA's decision to have an advisory committee
review and make recommendations on approval of the NDA, and difficulties in scheduling an advisory committee meeting. The recommendations of an advisory committee are not binding on the FDA.

To
obtain FDA approval to market a product, we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for the patient population that will be treated. If regulatory approval of a
product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical trials. Marketing or promoting a
drug for an unapproved indication is prohibited. Furthermore, approval may entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, including
the need for patient and/or physician education, patient registries, medication or similar guides, or other restrictions on the distribution of the product. If an NDA does not satisfy applicable
regulatory criteria, the FDA may deny approval of an NDA or may issue a complete response, and require, among other things, additional clinical data or analyses.

Even
if this regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA.
Discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on this product, manufacturer or facility, including costly recalls or withdrawal of the
product from the market.

We
and any of our contract manufacturers are also required to comply with applicable FDA current good manufacturing practice regulations. Good manufacturing practices include
requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as to corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the
applicable regulatory authorities. These facilities, whether our own or our contract manufacturers, must be approved before we can use them in commercial manufacturing of our related products. We or
our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices and FDA or other regulatory requirements. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply, we or
our contract manufacturers may be subject to legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, or voluntary recall of product. Furthermore, continued compliance with
applicable good manufacturing practices will require continual expenditure of time, money and effort on the part of us or our contract manufacturers in the areas of production and quality control and
record keeping and reporting, in order to ensure full compliance.

Outside
the United States, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The requirements governing
the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. At present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national
level, although within the European Union, or EU, registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product in more than one EU member state. If the regulatory authority is
satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy has been presented, a marketing authorization may be granted. This foreign regulatory approval process involves all of the risks
associated with FDA approval discussed above and may also include additional risks.

The
Orphan Drug Act provides incentives to manufacturers to develop and market drugs for rare diseases and conditions affecting fewer than 200,000 persons in the United States at the
time of application for orphan drug designation. The first developer to receive FDA marketing approval for an orphan drug is entitled to a seven year exclusive marketing period in the United States
for the orphan drug indication.











However,
a drug that the FDA considers to be clinically superior to, or different from, another approved orphan drug, even though for the same indication, may also obtain approval in the United States
during the seven year exclusive marketing period. We believe that the commercial success of any orphan drug product that we may commercialize depends more significantly on the associated safety and
efficacy profile and on the price relative to competitive or alternative treatments and other marketing characteristics of the product than on the exclusivity afforded by the Orphan Drug Act.
Additionally, these products may be protected by patents and other means.

Legislation
similar to the Orphan Drug Act has been enacted in other countries outside of the United States, including the EU. The orphan legislation in the EU is available for therapies
addressing conditions that affect five or fewer out of 10,000 persons, are life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions and for which no satisfactory treatment is authorized.
The market
exclusivity period is for ten years, although that period can be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth year, available evidence establishes that the product does not justify maintenance of
market exclusivity.

Marketing Exclusivity

The FDA may grant five years of exclusivity in the United States for the approval of NDAs for new chemical entities, and three years of
exclusivity for supplemental NDAs, for among other things, new indications, dosages or dosage forms of an existing drug if new clinical investigations that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant
are essential to the approval of the supplemental application. Additionally, six months of marketing exclusivity in the United States is available if, in response to a written request from the FDA, a
sponsor submits and the agency accepts requested information relating to the use of the approved drug in the pediatric population. The six month pediatric exclusivity is added to any existing patent
or non-patent exclusivity period for which the drug is eligible. Orphan drug products are also eligible for pediatric exclusivity if the FDA requests and the company completes pediatric
clinical trials.

Health Law Compliance









There
are also an increasing number of state laws that require manufacturers to make reports to those states on certain pricing and marketing information. Many of these laws contain
ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the state
authorities.

Healthcare Reform

In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability
Reconciliation Act, or collectively PPACA, was enacted, which includes measures to significantly change the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the provisions
of PPACA of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following:

•

an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic
agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, beginning in 2011; an orphan drug product will generally not be subject to these
fees until it is approved for marketing for an indication other than an orphan drug indication. However, it is not certain that the government will continue to provide this exemption in the future or
that we will qualify for this exemption.

•

new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and others, including reporting any "transfer of
value" made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers and reporting any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during each calendar year
beginning in 2012, with reporting starting in 2013;

•

a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical
effectiveness research relating to drugs and other treatments, along with funding for such research;

•

creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board which, beginning in 2014, will have authority to recommend certain
changes to the Medicare program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if Congress does not act on the
recommendations; and

•

establishment of a Center for Medicare Innovation at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to test
innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending beginning by January 1, 2011.

Many
of the details regarding the implementation of PPACA are yet to be determined, and at this time, the full effect of PPACA on our business is unclear.

Research and Development

Since our inception, we have made substantial investments in research and technology development. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we
incurred research and development expenses of $123.9 million, $119.4 million and $146.4 million, respectively.

Human Resources

As of December 31, 2010, we had 247 employees, including 179 in research and development and 68 in operations support, finance
and administrative positions. Of these employees, 89 employees have advanced technical degrees including 10 MDs and 70 Ph.Ds. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and
management considers relations with our employees to be good.









Available Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1991 and our website is located atwww.incyte.com.
We make available free of charge on our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our website and the information
contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.









