Item 1.Business



Overview



Tractor Supply Company (the “Company” or “we”) is the largest operator of rural lifestyle retail stores in the United States.  The Company is focused on supplying the needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and others who enjoy the rural lifestyle (which we refer to as the “Out Here” lifestyle), as well as tradesmen and small businesses.  We operate retail stores under the namesTractor Supply Company, Del’s Feed & Farm SupplyandHomeTown Petand operate a website under the nameTractorSupply.com.  Our stores are located primarily in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural communities.



Tractor Supply Company has one reportable industry segment which is the retail sale of products that support the rural lifestyle.  AtDecember 27, 2014, we operated1,382retail stores in49states.  Our Tractor Supply stores typically range in size from15,000to19,000square feet of inside selling space along with additional outside selling space.  We use a standard design for most new built-to-suit locations that includes15,500square feet of inside selling space.



Business Strategy



We believe our sales and earnings growth are the result of executing our business strategy, which includes the following key components:



Market Niche

We have identified a specialized market niche: supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and others who enjoy the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses.  By focusing our product assortment on these core customers, we believe we are differentiated from general merchandise, home center and other specialty retailers.  We cater to the rural lifestyle and often serve a market by being a trip consolidator for many basic maintenance needs for farm, ranch and rural customers.



Customers

Our target customers are home, land, pet and livestock owners who generally have above average income and below average cost of living.  We seek to serve a customer base that primarily lives in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural communities.  This customer base includes recreational farmers and ranchers and others who enjoy the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses.



Customer Service

We are committed to providing our customers reliable product availability and a high level of in-store service through our motivated, well-trained store team members. We believe the ability of our store team members to provide friendly, responsive and seasoned advice helps our customers find the right products to satisfy their everyday needs in addition to the specialty items needed to complete their rural lifestyle projects.  Additionally, we maintain a customer solutions center at our Store Support Center located in Brentwood, Tennessee to support our in-store and online customers as well as our store team members.  We believe this commitment to customer service promotes strong customer loyalty and repeat shopping.



We use a third party provider to measure our level of customer service.  This process allows customers to provide feedback on their shopping experience.  Based on the third party provider’s data, we believe our customer satisfaction scores to be among the best-in-class.  We carefully evaluate the feedback we receive from our customers and implement improvements at the individual store level based on that feedback.



Store Personnel and Training

We seek to hire store team members with farming and ranching backgrounds, with particular emphasis on general maintenance, equine and welding.  We endeavor to staff our stores with courteous, highly motivated team members and devote considerable resources to training store team members, often in cooperation with our vendors.  Our training programs include:








Index



•a thorough on-boarding process to prepare new team members for their new role;

•new store opening training that prepares new store managers to open stores to Company standards;

•a management training program which covers all aspects of our store operations, delivering superior service and managing the team member experience;

•structured training on customer service and selling skills;

•on-line product knowledge training produced in conjunction with key vendors;

•leadership development programs that prepare leaders to expand their current contributions; and

•store manager meetings with vendor product presentations.



Store Environment

Our stores are designed and managed to make shopping an enjoyable experience and to maximize sales and operating efficiencies.  Stores are strategically arranged to provide an open environment for optimal product placement and visual display.  In addition, these layouts allow for departmental space to be easily reallocated and visual displays to be changed for seasonal products and promotions.  Display and product placement information is sent to stores weekly to ensure quality and uniformity among the stores.  Informative signs are located throughout each store to assist customers with purchasing decisions and merchandise location.  These signs provide customers with a comparison of product qualities, clear pricing and useful information regarding product benefits and suggestions for appropriate accessories.  Our store layouts and visual displays afford our customers a feeling of familiarity and enhance the shopping experience.  Also, all of our store team members wear highly visible red vests, aprons or smocks with nametags, and our customer service and checkout counters are conveniently located.



Merchandising and Purchasing

We offer an extensive assortment of products for those seeking to enjoy theOut Herelifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses.  Our broad product assortment and physical store size are tailored to meet the needs of our customers in various geographic markets. Our full line of product offerings includes a broad selection of high quality, reputable brand name and exclusive brand products and is supported by a strong in-stock inventory position with an average of16,000to19,500products per store.  No one product accounted for more than10%of our sales during2014.  We offer the following comprehensive selection of merchandise:



•Equine, livestock, pet and small animal products, including items necessary for their health, care, growth and containment;

•Hardware, truck, towing and tool products;

•Seasonal products, including heating, lawn and garden items, power equipment, gifts and toys;

•Work/recreational clothing and footwear; and

•Maintenance products for agricultural and rural use.



The following chart indicates the percentage of sales represented by each of our major product categories during fiscal2014,2013and2012:

Percent of SalesProduct Category:201420132012Livestock and Pet44%43%42%Hardware, Tools, Truck and Towing222323Seasonal, Gift and Toy Products202020Clothing and Footwear999Agriculture556Total100%100%100%



Our buying team constantly reviews and updates our product assortment to respond to customer needs and to offer new, relevant products.  We are focused on providing key products that our customers use on a regular basis for their lifestyle and maintenance needs with emphasis on consumable, usable, edible (“C.U.E.”) products.  Examples of C.U.E product categories include, but are not limited to, livestock feed and bedding, pet food, lubricants, and various seasonal products, such as heating, pest control and twine.








Index



Our products are sourced through both domestic and international vendors.  Our business is not dependent upon any one vendor or particular group of vendors.  We purchase our products from a group of approximately800vendors, with no one vendor representing more than10%of our purchases during fiscal2014.  Approximately300core vendors accounted for90%of our purchases during fiscal2014.  We have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for our products, and we believe that adequate sources of supply exist at substantially similar costs for nearly all of our products.  We have no material long-term contractual commitments with any of our vendors.



Our buying team focuses on merchandise procurement, vendor line reviews and testing of new products and programs.  We also employ a dedicated inventory management team that focuses exclusively on all forecasting and replenishment functions, and a committed merchandise planning team that concentrates on assortment planning.  Through the combined efforts of these teams, we continue to improve our overall inventory productivity and in-stock position.



Intellectual Property

Our subsidiary, Tractor Supply Co. of Texas, LP (“TSCT”), owns registrations with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) for various service marks includingTSC®,Tractor Supply Co.®,TSC Tractor Supply Co.®and the trapezium design for retail store services. We consider these service marks, and the accompanying goodwill and name recognition, to be valuable assets of our business. TSCT also owns several other service marks for retail services, some of which have been registered with the USPTO and some of which are the subject of applications for registration pending before the USPTO.



In addition to selling products that bear nationally-known manufacturer brands, we also sell products manufactured for us under a number of exclusive brands that we consider to be important to our business.  These exclusive brands are manufactured for us by a number of vendors and provide an alternative to the national brands, which helps provide value for our customers and positions us as a destination store.



Our exclusive brands represented approximately31%of our total sales in fiscal2014and2013and25%of our total sales in fiscal2012.  Our exclusive brands include:

Ÿ4health®(pet foods and supplies)ŸJobSmart®(tools)ŸBit & Bridle®(apparel and footwear)ŸPaws & Claws®(pet foods and supplies)ŸBlue Mountain®(apparel)ŸProducer’s Pride®(livestock and horse feed and supplies)ŸC.E. Schmidt®(apparel and footwear)ŸRed Shed®(gifts, collectibles, and outdoor furniture)ŸCountyline®(livestock, farm and ranch equipment)ŸRedstone®(heating products)ŸDumor®(livestock and horse feed and supplies)ŸRetriever®(pet foods and supplies)ŸEquistages®(horse feed)ŸRoyal Wing®(bird feed and supplies)ŸGroundwork®(lawn and garden supplies)ŸTraveller®(truck and automotive products)ŸHuskee®(outdoor power equipment)ŸTSC Tractor Supply Co®(trailers, truck tool boxes and animalbedding)



The exclusive brands identified above have been registered with the USPTO for certain products and are the subject of applications for registration pending before the USPTO for other products.



Our trademark and service mark registrations have various expiration dates; however, provided that we continue to use the marks and renew the registrations in a timely manner, the registrations are potentially perpetual in duration.



We believe our intellectual property, which includes the trademarks and service marks identified above, together with certain trade names, domain names and copyrights, has significant value and is an important component of our merchandising and marketing strategies.



Distribution

We currently operate a distribution network for supplying stores with merchandise, and in fiscal2014our stores received approximately70%of merchandise through this network while the remaining merchandise shipped directly to the stores from our vendors.  We believe this flow facilitates the prompt and efficient distribution of merchandise to our stores in order to enhance in-stocks, minimize freight costs and improve the inventory turn rate.  Oursevendistribution centers, located in Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Nebraska, Texas and Washington, represent total distribution capacity of4.2 millionsquare feet.  In late 2014, we entered into a lease agreement for a second facility in Hagerstown, Maryland, with a capacity of 309,000 square feet.  This additional space will support the future growth of stores in the northeast.  Also in 2014, we started construction on a new






Index



distribution center in Casa Grande, Arizona, with a capacity of approximately 650,000 square feet.  This facility will support our western store expansion and is expected to begin operating in the fourth quarter of 2015.  We continue to improve the technology in our distribution centers, and currently four of oursevenfacilities utilize a warehouse management system that provides for improved movement of inventory through increased use of conveyors and automation.  We will continue to refine this system and expect that it will be implemented in additional locations.



We select the locations of our distribution centers in an effort to minimize logistics costs and optimize the distance from distribution centers to our stores.  We manage our inbound and outbound transportation activity in-house through the use of a web-based transportation management system.  We utilize several common carriers for store deliveries.  We manage our transportation costs through carrier negotiations, the monitoring of transportation routes, and the scheduling of deliveries.



Marketing

We utilize an “everyday value price” philosophy to consistently offer our products at competitive prices complemented by strategically planned promotions throughout the year.  To drive store traffic and position ourselves as a destination store, we promote broad selections of merchandise with newspaper circulars, customer targeted direct mail and email and internet offerings.  Vendors frequently support these specific programs by offering temporary cost reductions and honoring coupons.  Our vendors also provide assistance with product presentation and fixture design, brochures, support for in-store events, and point-of-purchase materials for customer education and product knowledge for our team members.



Omni-Channel

We communicate with our customers across multiple touch points including our stores, e-commerce website (TractorSupply.com), email and direct mail.  Our goal is to be available when and how our customers choose to engage with our brand.  Connecting with consumers online provides the opportunity to allow customers to shop at a time and place that fits their schedule while delivering enhanced product information, research and decision tools that support product selection and informational needs in specific subject areas.  We give our customers the ability to purchase products and have them shipped to one of our retail stores, their homes or offices.  We believe this capability further enhances customer service and extends our market to areas where our retail stores are not currently located.  We maintain a fulfillment center within our Franklin, Kentucky distribution center to support our e-commerce activities.  Additionally in 2014, we continued to invest in our omni-channel platform and expanded capabilities related to fulfillment options, product information and site research.  We also introduced an optimized mobile and tablet experience, improved the site response time and added additional product offerings for vendor direct to customer drop shipments.



HomeTown Pet

We opened two HomeTown Pet stores in fiscal 2014.  HomeTown Pet is a new pet supply store that provides high-quality products, knowledge and service to pet owners.  The stores offer products for a wide variety of pets and animals, including cats, dogs, poultry, birds and horses as well as grooming and mobile vet services.  We are a ‘test-and-learn’ company, and we believe these stores will help us gain better insight into the pet and animal supply category and provide valuable information that can help us better understand the unique needs of our pet customers.



Management and Team Members

As ofDecember 27, 2014, we employed approximately11,000full-time and10,100part-time team members. We also employ additional part-time team members during peak periods.  We are not party to any collective bargaining agreements.



Our store operations are organized into seven regions.  Each region is led by a vice president of operations, and the region is further organized into districts, each of which is led by a district manager.  We have two internal advisory boards, one comprised of store managers and the other comprised of district managers.  These groups bring a grassroots perspective to operational initiatives and generate chain-wide endorsement of proposed best-practice solutions.



All of our team members participate in one of various bonus incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon team and/or Company performance.  In addition to bonus incentive programs, we also provide our eligible team members the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement savings plan.  We also share in the cost of health insurance provided to our team members, and team members receive a discount on merchandise purchased at our stores.



We encourage a promote-from-within environment when internal resources permit.  We also provide internal leadership development programs designed to prepare our high-potential team members for greater responsibility.  Our current team of district managers and store managers have an average tenure of approximately six years.  Management believes internal promotions, coupled with the hiring of individuals with previous retail experience, will provide the management structure necessary to support our planned growth.






Index





Continuous Improvement

We are committed to a continuous improvement program called Tractor Value System (“TVS”), which is our catalyst to drive change throughout our organization.  TVS is a business management system that emphasizes, through data analytics and team member engagement, a focus on continuous improvement.  Through TVS, we examine business processes and identify opportunities to reduce costs, drive innovation, and improve effectiveness.  We have implemented numerous continuous improvement projects (with team members from multiple areas of our business) to evaluate key operations and implement process changes.  Team members are empowered and expected to challenge current paradigms and improve processes.  Our management encourages the participation of all team members in decision-making, regularly solicits input and suggestions from our team members and incorporates suggestions into our improvement activities.



Management Information and Control Systems

We have invested considerable resources in our management information and control systems to support superior customer service, manage the purchase and distribution of our merchandise, improve our operating efficiencies and support on-line operations.  Our key management information and control systems include a point-of-sale system, an e-commerce platform, a supply chain management and replenishment system, a warehouse management system, a price optimization system, a vendor purchase order control system and a merchandise presentation system.  These systems are integrated through an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system.  This ERP system tracks merchandise from initial order through ultimate sale and interfaces with our financial systems.



We continue to evaluate and improve the functionality of our systems to maximize their effectiveness.  Such efforts include ongoing hardware and software evaluations, refreshes and upgrades to support optimal software configurations and application performance.  We plan to continue to upgrade our information technology and implement other efficiency-driving system enhancements.  We continue to strengthen the security of our information systems and invest in technology to support store, distribution center and omni-channel expansion.  These efforts are directed toward improving business processes and achieving the most efficient and effective use of systems to manage our operations while ensuring a secure and reliable environment.



Growth Strategy



Our current and long-term growth strategy is to:  (1) expand domestic geographic market presence through opening new retail stores, (2) enhance financial performance through comparable store sales growth achieved through targeted merchandising and marketing programs with an “everyday value price” philosophy supported by strong customer service, (3) enhance product margin through strategic product sourcing, inventory and markdown management, a strong exclusive brand offering, and optimization of product pricing and transportation costs, (4) leverage operating costs by focusing on opportunities for continuous improvement and elimination of waste in all of our processes, (5) expand market opportunities via e-commerce and internet-supported sales by improving our website product content and enhancing the online experience, and (6) expand through selective acquisition, as such opportunities arise, to enhance penetration into new and existing markets to complement organic growth.



Over the past five years we have experienced considerable sales growth, resulting in a compounded annual growth rate of approximately12.2%. We plan to open110to115new stores in2015, a selling square footage increase of approximately8%.  We opened107new stores in2014and102new stores in2013, which represents selling square footage increases of approximately8.3%during both fiscal2014and2013.



AtDecember 27, 2014, we operated1,382retail stores in49states.  Given the size of the communities that we target, we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in many existing and new markets. We have developed a proven method for selecting store sites and have identified over700additional markets for new Tractor Supply stores.  Approximately56%of our stores are in freestanding buildings and44%are located in strip shopping centers.  We lease approximately93%of our stores and own the remaining7%.



Competition



We operate in a competitive retail industry. The principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. We compete with general merchandise retailers, home center retailers, specialty and discount retailers, independently owned retail farm and ranch stores, numerous privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives, as well as internet-based retailers.  However, we believe we successfully differentiate ourselves from many of these retailers by focusing on our specialized market niche for customers living the rural lifestyle.  See further discussion of competition in 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.








Index



Seasonality and Weather



Our business is seasonal.  Historically, our sales and profits are the highest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters due to the sale of seasonal products.  We experience our highest inventory and accounts payable balances during our first fiscal quarter for purchases of seasonal products to support the higher sales volume of the spring selling season and again during our third fiscal quarter to support the higher sales volume of the cold-weather selling season.



Historically, weather conditions, including unseasonably warm weather in the fall and winter months and unseasonably cool weather in the spring and summer months, have affected the timing and volume of our sales and results of operations.  In addition, extreme weather conditions, including snow and ice storms, flood and wind damage, hurricanes, tornadoes, extreme rain and droughts, have impacted operating results both negatively and positively, depending on the severity and length of these conditions.  Our strategy is to manage product flow and adjust merchandise assortments and depth of inventory to capitalize on seasonal demand trends.



Stewardship and Compliance with Environmental Matters



Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment.  We are committed to complying with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.  We are also committed to becoming a more environmentally sustainable company.  This commitment is demonstrated through our Stewardship Program, which is our environmental sustainability program.  Through this program, the Company has implemented a number of initiatives designed to reduce our impact on the environment.  These initiatives include the installation of energy management systems, high efficiency lighting and heating/air conditioning systems in our stores, and recycling programs in our stores, distribution centers and the Store Support Center.  In 2014, our new Store Support Center was awarded LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver certification for its environmentally sustainable design, construction and operation.  We also installed solar arrays at the new Store Support Center in Brentwood, Tennessee and our store in Hendersonville, Tennessee.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following list is included in Part I of this Report in lieu of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held onMay 5, 2015.



The following is a list of the names and ages of all executive officers of the registrant, indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held by each such person and each person’s principal occupations and employment during at least the past five years:

NamePositionAgeGregory A. SandfortPresident and Chief Executive Officer and Director59Anthony F. CrudeleExecutive Vice President – Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer58Steve K. BarbarickExecutive Vice President – Merchandising and Marketing47Lee J. DowningExecutive Vice President – Operations and Real Estate43Benjamin F. Parrish, Jr.Senior Vice President – General Counsel and Corporate Secretary58Chad M. FrazellSenior Vice President – Human Resources42Robert D. MillsSenior Vice President – Chief Information Officer42



Gregory A. Sandfort has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2012, prior to which he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since February 2012.  Mr. Sandfort previously served as President and Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company since February 2009, after having served as Executive Vice President – Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company since November 2007.  Mr. Sandfort served as President and Chief Operating Officer at Michaels Stores, Inc. from March 2006 to August 2007 and as Executive Vice President – General Merchandise Manager at Michaels Stores, Inc. from January 2004 to February 2006.  Mr. Sandfort has served as a director of the Company since February 2013.



Anthony F. Crudele has served as Executive Vice President – Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since January 2007, after having served as Senior Vice President – Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company since November 2005.  Mr. Crudele previously served as Chief Financial Officer at Gibson Guitar from August 2003 to September 2005, as Chief Financial Officer of Xcelerate Corp. from January 2000 to January 2003, and at The Sports Authority from 1989 through 1999 (serving as Chief Financial Officer from 1996 through 1999).








Index



Steve K. Barbarick has served as Executive Vice President – Merchandising and Marketing for the Company since September 2012 and prior to that time served as Senior Vice President – Merchandising since February 2011. Mr. Barbarick previously served as Vice President – Merchandising since June 2009, after having served as Vice President and Divisional Merchandise Manager since 2003.



Lee J. Downing has served as Executive Vice President – Operations and Real Estate since April 2014 and prior to that served as Senior Vice President - Operations since October 2010.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Downing served as Division Vice President – Operations for Dollar General Corporation from 2005. Mr. Downing also served as Region Vice President – Northeast Operations and in various other operations roles at Family Dollar Stores from 1999 to 2005.



Benjamin F. Parrish, Jr. has served as Senior Vice President – General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company since October 2010.  Mr. Parrish previously served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MV Transportation, Inc. from September 2008 until he joined the Company.  He served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Central Parking Corporation from 1998 to 2008.



Chad M. Frazell has served as Senior Vice President - Human Resources since August 2014.  Mr. Frazell previously served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Shopko Stores Operating Co., LLC from April 2011 until he joined the Company.  From 2008 to 2011, Mr. Frazell served as Vice President, Human Resources for Kohl’s Corporation, where he began as a store manager in 1999.  Prior to 1999, Mr. Frazell served as a store manager and assistant manager for Target Corporation. He began his career with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., where he served as an assistant manager and sales associate.



Robert D. Mills has served as Senior Vice President - Chief Information Officer since February 2014.  Mr. Mills previously served as Chief Information Officer for Ulta Beauty from October 2011 until he joined the Company.  From 2005 to 2011, Mr. Mills was Vice President, Chief Information Officer for the online business unit at Sears Holdings Corporation where he began as an Information Technology Customer Relationship Leader in 2001.  Prior to 2001, Mr. Mills held roles at Allstate Insurance, Rockwell International Telecommunications Division, and Household Finance Corporation.



Additional Information



We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other reports as required.  The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC  20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site atsec.govthat contains the reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically.



We make available free of charge through our Internet website,TractorSupply.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.





