Item 1.Business

Overview

Tractor Supply Company is the largest operator of retail farm and ranch stores in the United States
and is focused on supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who
enjoy the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses. We operate retail stores
under the namesTractor Supply CompanyandDel’s Farm Supplyand operate a website under the nameTractorSupply.com. Our stores are located in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in
rural communities, and they offer the following comprehensive selection of merchandise:

•Equine, pet and small animal products, including items necessary for their health, care,
growth and containment;

•Hardware and seasonal products, including lawn and garden power equipment;

•Truck, towing and tool products;

•Work/recreational clothing and footwear for the entire family;

•Maintenance products for agricultural and rural use; and

•Home décor, candy, snack food and toys.

Our Tractor Supply stores typically range in size from 15,500 square feet to 18,500 square feet of
inside selling space and additional outside selling space. We use a standard 15,500 square foot
prototype for new purpose-built locations. For new existing buildings, one of several layout
formats is utilized.

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Del’s Farm Supply, LLC (“Del’s”), which operated 27 stores as of
December 26, 2009 in Washington, Oregon, Idaho and Hawaii, offers a wide selection of products
(primarily in the equine, pet and animal category) tailored to those who enjoy the rural lifestyle.
Del’s stores currently range in size from approximately 2,000 to 6,000 square feet of inside
selling space plus additional outside and covered/sheltered selling space.

Tractor Supply Company has one reportable industry segment – farm and ranch retail sales, both at
our retail locations and online.

At December 26, 2009, we operated 930 (inclusive of 27 Del’s stores) retail farm and ranch stores
in 44 states.

Seasonality and Weather

Our business is highly seasonal. Historically, our sales and profits have been the highest in the
second and fourth fiscal quarters of each year due to the sale of seasonal products. Unseasonable
weather, excessive precipitation, drought, and early or late frosts may also affect our sales. We
believe, however, that the impact of extreme weather conditions is somewhat mitigated by the
geographic dispersion of our stores.

We experience our highest inventory and accounts payable balances during the first fiscal quarter
each year for purchases of seasonal products in anticipation of the spring selling season and again
during the third fiscal quarter in anticipation of the winter selling season.

Business Strategy

We believe our sales and earnings growth is a result of executing our business strategy, which
includes the following key components:

Market Niche

We have identified a specialized market niche: supplying the lifestyle needs of
recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle (which we
refer to as the “Out Here” lifestyle), as well as tradesmen and small businesses.
By focusing our product mix on these core customers, we believe we are
differentiated from general merchandise, home center and other specialty retailers.





Customer Service

We are committed to providing our customers a high level of in-store service through
our motivated, well-trained store team members. We believe the ability of our store
team members to provide friendly, responsive and seasoned advice helps to promote
strong customer loyalty and repeat shopping. As such, we seek to provide our store
team members with decision-making authority, product knowledge and training to
enable them to meet our customers’ needs.

We endeavor to staff our stores with courteous, highly motivated team members and
devote considerable resources to training store team members, often in cooperation
with our vendors. Our training programs include (i) a full management training
program which covers all aspects of our operations, (ii) product knowledge modules
produced in conjunction with key vendors, (iii) frequent management skills training
classes, (iv) semi-annual store manager meetings with vendor product presentations,
(v) vendor sponsored in-store training programs and (vi) ongoing product information
updates from our management headquarters, the Store Support Center. We seek to hire
and train store team members with farming and ranching backgrounds, with particular
emphasis on general maintenance, equine and welding.

Our online shopping site isTractorSupply.com. The availability of many of our
products online provides our customers the ability to purchase products and have
them shipped to one of our retail stores, their homes or offices. This capability
further enhances customer service and extends our market to areas where retail
stores are not currently located.

We offer proprietary, private label credit cards for individuals and business
customers. In addition, we accept cash, checks, debit cards, Visa, MasterCard,
American Express and Discover credit cards and gift cards.

Store Environment

Our stores are designed and managed to make shopping an enjoyable experience and to
maximize sales and operating efficiencies. Stores utilize several layouts, designed
to provide an open environment, optimal product placement and visual display
locations. In addition, these layouts allow for departmental space to be easily
reallocated and visual displays to be easily changed for seasonal products and
promotions. Display and product placement information is sent to stores weekly to
ensure quality and uniformity among the stores. Informative signs are located
throughout each store to assist customers with purchasing decisions and merchandise
location by comparison of “good, better, best” qualities, clear pricing and useful
information regarding product benefits and suggestions for appropriate accessories.
The general uniformity of our store layouts and visual displays afford our customers
a feeling of familiarity and enhances the shopping experience. To further enhance
the shopping experience, all of our store team members wear highly visible red
vests, aprons or smocks and nametags, and our customer service and checkout counters
are conveniently located.

Merchandising

We offer a differentiated assortment of products for our customers. Our broad
product assortment is tailored to meet the regional and geographic needs of our
markets, as well as the physical store size. Our full line of product offerings is
supported by a strong in-stock inventory position with an average of 15,500 to
19,000 unique products per store. No one product accounted for more than 10% of our
sales during 2009.

Our stores carry a wide selection of high quality, nationally recognized, name brand
merchandise. We also market a growing list of products under our “private-label
programs,” i.e. products manufactured by a number of vendors at our direction and
specifically for our sole benefit. The trademarks in the private label brand names
are owned by us. Our private label brands include:

•MasterhandandJobSmart(tools and tool chests)

•DumorandProducers Pride(livestock feed)

•4health(pet foods)

•RetrieverandPaws ‘n Claws(pet foods)





•Royal Wing(bird feeding supplies)

•Milepost(equine products)

•Groundwork(lawn and garden supplies)

•Huskee(outdoor power equipment)

•Countyline(livestock, farm and ranch equipment)

•Traveller(truck/automotive products)

•C.E. Schmidt(apparel and footwear)

•Bit & Bridle(apparel)

•Red Shed(gifts and collectibles)

We believe that the availability of top quality private label products at great
prices provides superior value for our customers, a strategic advantage for us, and
positions us as a destination store.

The following chart indicates the average percentages of sales represented by each
of our major product categories during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Percent of SalesProduct Category20092008(a)2007(a)Livestock and Pet39%36%33%Hardware and Seasonal232426Truck and Tool181920Clothing and Footwear101010Agriculture677Gift and Recreation444100%100%100%



(a)Reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

Purchasing

We offer a differentiated assortment of products that are sourced through domestic
and international vendors for those seeking to enjoy the “Out Here” lifestyle. Our
business is not dependent upon any one vendor or particular group of vendors. We
purchase our products from a core group of approximately 850 vendors, with no one
vendor representing more than 10% of our purchases during fiscal 2009.
Approximately 250 vendors accounted for approximately 90% of our purchases during
fiscal 2009. We have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining
satisfactory alternative sources of supply for our products, and we believe that
adequate sources of supply exist at substantially similar costs for substantially
all of our products. We have no material long-term contractual commitments with any
of our vendors.

We maintain a dedicated inventory management team to focus exclusively on all
replenishment and forecasting functions. This centralized direction permits our
buying teams to focus more strategic attention toward vendor line reviews,
assortment planning and testing of new products and programs. Through the combined
efforts of these teams, we have improved our overall inventory productivity and
in-stock position.

Over 97% of our purchase orders are transmitted through an electronic data
interchange (“EDI”) system, and approximately 95% of merchandise vendor invoices are
transmitted through EDI. We are expanding the percentage of vendors who
electronically transmit invoices and increasing the amount of sales history
transmitted.

Distribution

We currently operate a distribution network for supplying our stores with
merchandise, and in fiscal 2009 our stores received approximately 67% of our
merchandise through this network. Our six distribution centers are located in
Indiana, Georgia, Maryland, Texas, Nebraska, and Washington, representing total
distribution capacity of 2.9 million square feet. In 2010, we are not planning any
additional distribution center square footage as we concentrate on increasing the
utilization of our existing space.





We manage our inbound and outbound transportation activity in-house through the use
of a web-based transportation management system. We outsource the operation of our
dedicated fleet to two third-party logistics providers and utilize several common
carriers as required for store deliveries. The third-party logistics providers are
responsible for managing drivers and tractors contracted to us, and they deliver
animal feed products directly to stores from our vendors. We control our
transportation costs through the monitoring of transportation routes and scheduling
of deliveries and backhauls while minimizing empty miles.

Marketing

We utilize an “everyday value prices” strategy to consistently offer our products at
competitive prices complemented by promotions primarily implemented during peak
selling seasons. We regularly monitor prices at competing stores and adjust our
prices as appropriate.

To generate store traffic and position ourselves as a destination store, we promote
broad selections of merchandise with newspaper circulars, customer targeted direct
mail and internet offerings. Vendors frequently support these specific programs by
offering temporary cost reductions, honoring coupons and funding gift card rebate
programs.

Due to the relatively small size of our stores, increased traffic in the store
ensures increased exposure to our products. Our vendors are committed to helping us
promote our brand and position ourselves as a destination store. Our vendors
provide assistance with product presentation and rack design, brochures,
point-of-purchase materials for customers’ education and product education for our
team members. We also receive funding through contributions and incentives on
purchases to promote new stores and earn rebates from vendors on product purchases
based on volume.

Competition

We operate in a competitive market. The principal competitive factors include
location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency,
merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. We compete with
general merchandise retailers, home center retailers and other specialty and
discount retailers, as well as independently owned retail farm and ranch stores,
numerous privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives. Some of
these competitors are units of national or regional chains and may have
substantially greater resources and financial capacities than we do. However, we
believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from these entities by
focusing on our specialized market niche for customers living the rural lifestyle.

Management and Team Members

As of December 26, 2009, we employed approximately 7,600 full-time and approximately
5,700 part-time team members. We also employ additional part-time team members
during peak periods. We are not party to any collective bargaining agreements.

Our store operations are organized by location into eight regions. Each region is
led by a regional manager and the region is further organized into districts, which
are led by a district manager. Our regional and district managers, store managers
and other distribution and support personnel have contributed significantly to our
performance. We have an internal advisory board comprised of store managers. This
group brings a grassroots perspective to operational initiatives and generates
chain-wide endorsement of proposed “best-practice” solutions.

We are committed to a continuous improvement program called Tractor Value System
(“TVS”). TVS is a commitment to provide, through team member engagement, a business
management system that emphasizes continuous improvement by embracing change of
current practices to reduce cost, shorten lead times, and drive innovation. We have
implemented numerous TVS project teams (comprised of team members from all areas of
our operations) to evaluate key operations and implement process changes that will
both improve efficiency and strengthen controls. Our management encourages the
participation of all team members in decision-making, regularly solicits input and
suggestions from our team members and responds to the suggestions.





All of our team members participate in one of various incentive programs, which
provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon team and/or
Company performance. We also provide our team members the opportunity to participate
in an employee stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement savings plan (we
contribute to the 401(k) savings plan solely through a cash match). Additionally, we
share in the cost of health insurance provided to our team members, and team members
receive a discount on merchandise purchased at our stores.

We encourage a “promote from within” environment when internal resources permit. We
also provide internal leadership development programs designed to mentor our high
potential team members for continued progress and believe we have satisfactory
relationships with our team members. Our district managers and store managers have
an average length of service of approximately five years. Management believes
internal promotions, coupled with the hiring of individuals with previous retail
experience, will provide the management structure necessary to support our planned
store growth.

Management Information and Control Systems

We have invested considerable resources in our management information and control
systems to ensure superior customer service, manage the purchase and distribution of
our merchandise and improve our operating efficiencies. Our management information
and control systems include a point-of-sale system, a supply chain management and
replenishment system, a radio frequency and voice picking system in the distribution
centers, a vendor purchase order control system and a merchandise presentation
system. These systems are integrated through an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”)
system. This ERP system tracks merchandise from initial order through ultimate sale
and interfaces with our financial systems.

We continue to evaluate and improve the functionality of our systems to maximize
their effectiveness. Such efforts include ongoing hardware and software evaluations
and upgrades to support optimal software configurations and application performance.
We plan to upgrade our information technology and implement other
efficiency-driving system enhancements (including the continued rollout of a new
point-of-sale system, an upgrade to our ERP system and a planned rollout of a new
warehouse management system) in 2010. These efforts are directed toward constantly
improving the overall business processes and achieving the most efficient and
effective use of the systems to manage our operations while ensuring a secure and
reliable environment.

Growth Strategy

Our current and long-term growth strategy is to (1) expand geographic market presence through
opening new retail stores, (2) enhance financial performance through same-store sales increases,
achieved through targeted merchandising programs with an “everyday value prices” philosophy and
supported by strong customer service, (3) enhance product margin through assortment management,
vendor management, global sourcing, and optimization of transportation and distribution costs, (4)
leverage operating costs, especially advertising, distribution and corporate overhead, (5) expand
market opportunities via internet sales, and (6) expand through selective acquisition, as such
opportunities arise, to enhance penetration into new and existing markets as a complementary
strategy to organic growth.

We have experienced considerable sales growth over the last five years, with a compounded annual
growth rate of approximately 13.0%. We project an increase of 70 to 80 new stores in 2010, an
increase of approximately 8%. We opened 76 new stores in 2009 and 91 new stores in 2008, an
increase of approximately 9% and 12%, respectively.

We operated 930 retail farm and ranch stores in 44 states as of December 26, 2009 and have plans to
open 70 to 80 stores in fiscal 2010. We have developed a proven method for selecting store sites
and have identified over 850 potential additional markets for new Tractor Supply stores (excluding
Del’s) in the United States. The acquisition of Del’s enabled us to establish an initial presence
in the Pacific Northwest, primarily in Washington, along with three stores in Hawaii. We have
slowed the growth of Del’s as we refine the concept, and we do not plan to open any additional
Del’s stores in fiscal 2010.





Additional Information

We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other reports as
required. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We
are an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site atsec.govthat contains the
reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically.

We make available free of charge through our Internet website,TractorSupply.com, our Annual Report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to
those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
furnished to the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is
therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically
referenced elsewhere in this report.

Our code of ethics, which is applicable to all of our team members, including our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller, along with our Corporate Governance Guidelines and
the charters of our Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees of our
Board of Directors, is posted on our website.



