Item 1.Business



Overview



Tractor Supply Company is the largest operator of retail farm and ranch stores in the United States and is focused on supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses.  We operate retail stores under the namesTractor Supply CompanyandDel’s Farm Supplyand operate a website under the nameTractorSupply.com.  Our stores are located in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural
communities, and they offer the following comprehensive selection of merchandise:



·Equine, pet and small animal products, including items necessary for their health, care, growth and containment;

·Hardware, truck, towing and tool products;

·Seasonal products, including lawn and garden items, power equipment, gifts and toys;

·Maintenance products for agricultural and rural use; and

·Work/recreational clothing and footwear.



Our Tractor Supply stores typically range in size from 15,000 to 19,000 square feet of inside selling space along with additional outside selling space.  We use a standard 15,250 square foot prototype for most new built-to-suit locations.  In some smaller markets we utilize a 12,500 square foot format with slightly less inventory and lower occupancy cost than our prototype but a similar product assortment.  For new stores located in existing buildings, one of several layout formats is utilized.



Tractor Supply Company has one reportable industry segment – farm and ranch retail sales, both at our retail locations and online.



At December 31, 2011, we operated 1,085 retail farm and ranch stores in 44 states.



Seasonality



Our business is highly seasonal.  Historically, our sales and profits have been the highest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters due to the sale of seasonal products.  We experience our highest inventory and accounts payable balances during the first fiscal quarter for purchases of seasonal products in anticipation of the spring selling season and again during the third fiscal quarter in anticipation of the cold-weather selling season.



Business Strategy



We believe our sales and earnings growth is a result of executing our business strategy, which includes the following key components:

Market NicheWe have identified a specialized market niche:  supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle (which we refer to as the “Out Here” lifestyle), as well as tradesmen and small businesses.  By focusing our product mix on these core customers, we believe we are differentiated from general merchandise, home center and other specialty retailers.Customer ServiceWe are committed to providing our customers reliable product availability and a high level of in-store service through our motivated, well-trained store team members. We believe the ability of our store team members to provide friendly, responsive and seasoned advice helps our customers find the right products to satisfy their everyday needs in addition to the specialty items needed to complete their rural lifestyle projects.  We believe this commitment to customer service promotes strong customer loyalty and repeat shopping.  As such, we provide our store team members with training, product knowledge and decision-making authority to enable them to meet our customers’ needs.



1We endeavor to staff our stores with courteous, highly motivated team members and devote considerable resources to training store team members, often in cooperation with our vendors.  Our training programs include (i) a management training program which covers all aspects of our store operations, (ii) regular training on customer service and selling skills, (iii) product knowledge modules produced in conjunction with key vendors, (iv) frequent management skills training classes, (v) semi-annual store manager meetings with vendor product presentations, (vi) vendor sponsored in-store training programs, and (vii) ongoing product information updates from our management headquarters, the Store Support
Center.  We hire and train store team members with farming and ranching backgrounds, with particular emphasis on general maintenance, equine and welding.We use a third party provider to measure our level of customer service.  This process allows customers to provide feedback on their shopping experience.  Based on the third party provider’s data, we consider our customer satisfaction scores to be among the best in class.  We critically evaluate the feedback we receive from our customers and initiate improvements at the individual store level based on that feedback.

Store Environment

Our stores are designed and managed to make shopping an enjoyable experience and to maximize sales and operating efficiencies.  Stores utilize several layouts designed to provide an open environment, optimal product placement and visual display locations. In addition, these layouts allow for departmental space to be easily reallocated and visual displays to be changed for seasonal products and promotions. Display and product placement information is sent to stores weekly to ensure quality and uniformity among the stores.  Informative signs are located throughout each store to assist customers with purchasing decisions and merchandise location.  These signs provide customers with a
comparison of product qualities, clear pricing and useful information regarding product benefits and suggestions for appropriate accessories. The general uniformity of our store layouts and visual displays afford our customers a feeling of familiarity and enhances the shopping experience. To further enhance the shopping experience, all of our store team members wear highly visible red vests, aprons or smocks with nametags, and our customer service and checkout counters are conveniently located.



Merchandising

We offer a differentiated assortment of products for those seeking to enjoy the “Out Here”lifestyle.  Our broad product assortment is tailored to meet the regional and geographic needs of our markets, as well as the physical store size.  Our full line of product offerings is supported by a strong in-stock inventory position with an average of 16,000 to 19,500 unique products per store.  No one product accounted for more than 10% of our sales during 2011.  Additionally, our store team members utilize our special order process to assist customers with related products we do not carry in our
stores.



Our stores carry a wide selection of high quality, nationally recognized, name brand merchandise. We also market a growing list of products under our “private-label programs,” i.e. products manufactured for us by a number of vendors. The trademarks in the private label brand names are owned by us. Our private label brands represented approximately 23% of our total sales in fiscal 2011 and approximately 21% of our total sales in fiscal 2010 and 2009.  Our private label brand names include:



·Producers PrideandDumor(livestock feed)

·Retriever, Paws ‘n Claws,and4health(pet foods)

·Countyline(livestock, farm and ranch equipment)

·C.E. Schmidt(apparel and footwear)

·Huskee(outdoor power equipment)

·Royal Wing(bird feeding supplies)

·JobSmart(tools and tool chests)

·Traveller(truck/automotive products)

·Groundwork(lawn and garden supplies)

·Red Shed(gifts and collectibles)

·Bit & BridleandBlue Mountain(apparel)

·Redstone(heating products)



We believe that our ability to offer high quality private label products at compelling prices provides superior value for our customers, a strategic advantage for us, and positions us as a destination store.




The following chart indicates the percentage of sales represented by each of our major product categories during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009:



Percent of SalesProduct Category:201120102009Livestock and Pet40%39%39%Hardware, Tools and Truck232323Seasonal, Gift and Toy Products212222Clothing and Footwear101010Agriculture666Total100%100%100%



Our products are sourced through both domestic and international vendors.  Our business is not dependent upon any one vendor or particular group of vendors.  We purchase our products from a core group of approximately 700 vendors, with no one vendor representing more than 10% of our purchases during fiscal 2011.  Approximately 275 vendors accounted for approximately 90% of our purchases during fiscal 2011.  We have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for our products, and we believe that adequate sources of supply exist at substantially similar costs for nearly all of our products.  We have no
material long-term contractual commitments with any of our vendors.



We maintain a dedicated inventory management team to focus exclusively on all forecasting and replenishment functions.  This centralized direction permits our buying teams to focus more strategic attention toward vendor line reviews, assortment planning and testing of new products and programs.  Through the combined efforts of these teams, we continue to improve our overall inventory productivity and in-stock position.



Distribution

We currently operate a distribution network for supplying our stores with merchandise, and in fiscal 2011 our stores received approximately 70% of our merchandise through this network, while approximately 30% of our merchandise is shipped direct to the store from our vendors.  Our seven distribution centers are located in Kentucky, Indiana, Georgia, Maryland, Texas, Nebraska, and Washington, representing total distribution capacity of 3.7 million square feet.  In 2011 we completed construction of the 834,000 square foot facility in Kentucky, which became operational during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.  We continue to improve the technology in our distribution centers, and currently two
of our seven facilities are utilizing a new warehouse management system that provides for better movement of inventory through automation.  We will continue to refine this new system, and expect that it will be implemented across the entire distribution network over the next few years.



We manage our inbound and outbound transportation activity in-house through the use of a web-based transportation management system.  We utilize several common carriers for store deliveries.  We manage our transportation costs through carrier negotiations, the monitoring of transportation routes, and the scheduling of deliveries.



Marketing

We utilize an "everyday value prices" strategy to consistently offer our products at competitive prices complemented by strategically planned promotions throughout the year.  We regularly monitor prices at competing stores and adjust our prices as appropriate.



To generate store traffic and position ourselves as a destination store, we promote broad selections of merchandise with newspaper circulars, customer targeted direct mail and email and internet offerings.  Vendors frequently support these specific programs by offering temporary cost reductions, honoring coupons and funding gift card rebate programs.  Our vendors also provide assistance with product presentation and fixture design, brochures, support for in-store events, and point-of-purchase materials for customer education and product knowledge for our team members.



3Multi-ChannelWe do business with our customers across multiple touch points including our stores, website, email and direct mail.  Our goal is to be available when and how our customers choose to engage with our brand.  Connecting with consumers online provides the opportunity to allow customers to shop at a time and place that fits their schedule while delivering enhanced product information, research and decision tools that support product selection and informational needs in specific subject areas.  Additionally, we give our customers the ability to purchase products and have
them shipped to one of our retail stores, their homes or offices.  We believe this capability further enhances customer service and extends our market to areas where our retail stores are not currently located.



Competition

We operate in a competitive retail industry. The principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. We compete with general merchandise retailers, home center retailers, specialty and discount retailers, independently owned retail farm and ranch stores, numerous privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives, as well as internet-based retailers.  However, we believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from these entities by focusing on our specialized market niche for customers living the rural lifestyle.



Management and Team Members

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 8,700 full-time and approximately 7,700 part-time team members. We also employ additional part-time team members during peak periods.  We are not party to any collective bargaining agreements.



Our store operations are organized into nine regions.  Each region is led by a regional manager and the region is further organized into districts, which are led by a district manager or area manager.  Our regional managers, district managers, area managers, store managers and other distribution and support personnel have contributed significantly to our performance.  We have internal advisory boards, one comprised of store managers and the other comprised of district managers.  These groups bring a grassroots perspective to operational initiatives and generate chain-wide endorsement of proposed “best-practice” solutions.



All of our team members participate in one of various incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon team and/or Company performance. We also provide our team members the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement savings plan (we contribute to the 401(k) savings plan solely through a cash match). Additionally, we share in the cost of health insurance provided to our team members, and team members receive a discount on merchandise purchased at our stores.



We encourage a “promote from within” environment when internal resources permit.  We also provide internal leadership development programs designed to mentor our high potential team members for continued progress and believe we have satisfactory relationships with our team members. Our district managers, area managers, and store managers have an average length of service of approximately six years.  Management believes internal promotions, coupled with the hiring of individuals with previous retail experience, will provide the management structure necessary to support our planned store growth.



Continuous Improvement

We are committed to a continuous improvement program called Tractor Value System (“TVS”), which is our catalyst to drive continuous improvement throughout our organization.  TVS is a business management system that emphasizes, through team member engagement, a focus on continuous improvement.  Utilizing TVS, we improve processes by identifying and accepting the need for change of current practices to reduce costs, shorten lead times, and drive innovation.  We have implemented numerous continuous improvement projects (comprised of team members from all areas of our business) to evaluate key operations and implement process changes that will improve efficiency, reduce costs and
strengthen processes. Team members are empowered and expected to challenge long-held paradigms and improve processes. Our management encourages the participation of all team members in decision-making, regularly solicits input and suggestions from our team members and incorporates suggestions into our improvement activities.




Management Information and Control Systems

We have invested considerable resources in our management information and control systems to ensure superior customer service, manage the purchase and distribution of our merchandise and improve our operating efficiencies. Our management information and control systems include a point-of-sale system, a supply chain management and replenishment system, a warehouse management system, a radio frequency and voice-activated picking system in the distribution centers, a price optimization system, a vendor purchase order control system and a merchandise presentation system. These systems are integrated through an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system.  This ERP system tracks merchandise from
initial order through ultimate sale and interfaces with our financial systems.



We continue to evaluate and improve the functionality of our systems to maximize their effectiveness. Such efforts include ongoing hardware and software evaluations and upgrades to support optimal software configurations and application performance.  We plan to upgrade our information technology and implement other efficiency-driving system enhancements (including the continued rollout of a new warehouse management system to distribution centers, point-of-sale system upgrades, enhanced security tools, and store and support center hardware refreshes) in 2012.  Additionally, we will be upgrading our e-commerce website which will include the integration of order management, drop shipment, fulfillment
and call center activities.  We will continue to strengthen the security of our information systems and support store and distribution center expansion.  These efforts are directed toward constantly improving business processes and achieving the most efficient and effective use of systems to manage our operations while ensuring a secure and reliable environment.



Growth Strategy



Our current and long-term growth strategy is to:  (1) expand geographic market presence through opening new retail stores, (2) enhance financial performance through same-store sales growth achieved through targeted merchandising programs with an “everyday value prices” philosophy and supported by strong customer service, (3) enhance product margin through strategic product sourcing and regional allocation, a strong private label offering, and optimization of product pricing, transportation and distribution costs, (4) leverage operating costs, especially advertising, distribution and corporate overhead by focusing on opportunities for continuous improvement and elimination of waste in all of
our processes, (5) expand market opportunities via internet sales accomplished by improving our product content and enhancing our customers’ online experience and (6) expand through selective acquisition, as such opportunities arise, to enhance penetration into new and existing markets as a complementary strategy to organic growth.



Over the past five years we have experienced considerable sales growth, with a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 12.3%. We plan to open 90 to 95 new stores in 2012, a selling square footage increase of approximately 8.0%.  We opened 85 new stores in 2011 and 74 new stores in 2010, a square footage increase of approximately 7.8% and 7.4%, respectively.



We operated 1,085 retail farm and ranch stores in 44 states as of December 31, 2011.  Given the size of the communities that we target, we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in many existing and new markets. We have developed a proven method for selecting store sites and have identified over 1,000 additional markets for new Tractor Supply stores, inclusive of recently identified small market locations.  Approximately 55% of our stores are in freestanding buildings and 45% are located in strip shopping centers.  We lease approximately 93% of our store sites and own the remaining 7% of store sites.




Stewardship and Compliance with Environmental Matters



Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment.  We are committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including store construction and maintenance, energy usage, supply chain, product selection and delivery of product knowledge to our customers.



Executive Officers of the Registrant



Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following list is included in Part I of this Report in lieu of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 3, 2012.



The following is a list of the names and ages of all executive officers of the registrant, indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held by each such person and each person’s principal occupations and employment during at least the past five years:



NamePositionAgeJames F. WrightChairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer62Gregory A. SandfortPresident and Chief Merchandising Officer56Anthony F. CrudeleExecutive Vice President – Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer55Kimberly D. VellaSenior Vice President and Chief People Officer45Benjamin F. Parrish, Jr.Senior Vice President – General Counsel and Corporate Secretary55

__________________



James F. Wright has served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February 2009, and prior to that time served as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer from November 2007 to February 2009, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from October 2004 to November 2007, and as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from October 2000 to October 2004.  Mr. Wright has served as a director of the Company since 2002.



Gregory A. Sandfort has served as President and Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company since February 2009, and prior to that time served as Executive Vice President-Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company since November 2007.  Mr. Sandfort previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer at Michaels Stores, Inc. from March 2006 to August 2007 and as Executive Vice President – General Merchandise Manager at Michaels Stores, Inc. from January 2004 to February 2006.



Anthony F. Crudele has served as Executive Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since January 2007, after having served as Senior Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company since November 2005.  Mr. Crudele previously served as Chief Financial Officer at Gibson Guitar from August 2003 to September 2005, as Chief Financial Officer of Xcelerate Corp. from January 2000 to January 2003, and at The Sports Authority from 1989 through 1999 (serving as Chief Financial Officer from 1996 through 1999).



Kimberly D. Vella has served as Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer since July 2010, and prior to that time served as Senior Vice President-Human Resources of the Company since January 2007, after having served as Vice President-Human Resources of the Company since October 2001.



Benjamin F. Parrish, Jr. has served as Senior Vice President-General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company since October 2010.  Mr. Parrish previously served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MV Transportation, Inc., a transportation services company, from September 2008 until he joined the Company.  He served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Central Parking Corporation, a parking services company, from 1998 to 2008.



Additional Information



We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other reports as required. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC  20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site atsec.govthat contains the reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information filed electronically.




We make available free of charge through our Internet website,TractorSupply.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.



Our code of ethics, which is applicable to all of our team members, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller, along with our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors, is posted on our website.



