Item 1. Business

Overview

Cerner Corporation started doing business in 1980, and it was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1986. Unless the context otherwise
requires, references in this report to “Cerner,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean Cerner Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Our corporate headquarters are located at 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri 64117. Our telephone number is 816.221.1024.
Our Web site address, which we use to communicate important business information, can be accessed at: www.cerner.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those
reports available free of charge on or through this Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Cerner’s mission is to contribute to the systemic improvement of health care delivery and the health of communities. We are a leading
supplier of health care information technology (HCIT) solutions, services, devices and hardware. Our solutions optimize processes and help eliminate errors, variance and waste for health care organizations ranging from single-doctor practices to
entire countries, for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, and for the field of health care as a whole. These solutions are licensed by approximately 9,300 facilities around the world, including more than 2,650 hospitals; 3,750
physician practices; 40,000 physicians; 500 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 800 home health facilities; 40 employer sites and 1,600 retail pharmacies.

We design and develop most of our software solutions on the unifiedCerner Millennium®architecture, a person-centric computing framework, which combines clinical, financial and management information
systems. This architecture allows providers to securely access an individual’s electronic health record (EHR) at the point of care, and it organizes and proactively delivers information to meet the specific needs of physicians, nurses,
laboratory technicians, pharmacists, front- and back-office professionals and consumers. We have also created theHealthe
IntentTMplatform, a cloud-based platform that enables a new generation of solutions to leverage the increasing amount of data being captured as the health care industry is digitized. On theHealthe Intentplatform, we are building solutions based on
sophisticated, statistical algorithms that are intended to help providers predict and improve outcomes, control costs, and improve quality.

We also offer a broad range of services, including implementation and training, remote hosting, operational management services, revenue cycle services, support and maintenance, health care data analysis,
clinical process optimization, transaction processing, employer health centers, employee wellness programs and third party administrator (TPA) services for employer-based health plans.

In addition to software and services, we offer a wide range of complementary hardware and devices, both directly from Cerner and as a
reseller for third parties.






The following table presents our consolidated revenues by major solutions and services and by
segment, as a percentage of total revenues:



For the Years Ended201120102009Revenues by Solutions & ServicesSystem sales32%30%30%Support and maintenance25%28%29%Services41%40%39%Reimbursed travel2%2%2%100%100%100%Revenues by SegmentDomestic86%84%84%Global14%16%16%100%100%100%

Health Care and Health Care IT Industry

We believe there are several factors that are favorable for the HCIT industry over the next decade. With the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS) estimating United States health care spending at $2.7 trillion in 2011, or 17.7 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and projecting it to be 19.8 percent of GDP by 2020, we believe the growing cost of our health care
system is unsustainable. We also believe the intelligent use of information systems can help reduce costs while also improving health outcomes. Further, most United States health care providers recognize that they must invest in HCIT to meet
regulatory requirements, comply with government reimbursement requirements, and qualify for incentives. The importance of HCIT in facilitating this compliance along with the benefits of improving safety, efficiency and reducing costs, leads to
investments in HCIT being viewed as more strategic than many other capital purchases.

The broad recognition that HCIT is
essential to helping control health care costs and improve quality contributed to the inclusion of HCIT incentives in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH)
provisions within ARRA include more than $35 billion in incentives for health care organizations to modernize operations through “meaningful use” of HCIT. Hospitals and physicians that met the meaningful use criteria of the ARRA began
receiving incentive funds in 2011, and the incentive programs are contributing to increased demand for HCIT solutions and services in the United States.

Another element in the United States marketplace is the shift away from fee-for-service or volume-based reimbursement and towards value-based or outcomes-based reimbursement. Payers, including health
insurance companies and federal and state governments, are implementing programs to link reimbursement to quality measurements and outcomes, and this alignment creates significant financial motivation for HCIT adoption. Within our current client
base, we estimate that there could be $3 billion of annual reimbursement at risk tied to Value Based Purchasing, Medicare 30-day readmission rules, and quality reporting requirements beginning in 2013, and we estimate this amount grows to an
estimated $5 billion at risk by 2017. In order to comply with these programs, we believe our clients will need to expand their data analytics and reporting capabilities through the use of HCIT solutions and services.

In recent years, we have also seen a shift in the U.S. marketplace towards a preference for a single platform across inpatient and
ambulatory settings. The number of physicians employed by hospitals has increased significantly as hospitals have acquired physician groups in order to ensure a consistent stream of referrals, and health systems are recognizing the benefit of a
single patient record across the hospital and the physician office. Cerner is well positioned to benefit from this shift due to our unifiedCerner Millenniumplatform across our inpatient and ambulatory solutions, our large footprint in
United States hospitals and physician practices and our proven ability to deliver value to our clients.






Outside the United States, the economic downturn of the last few years has impacted and could
continue to impact our results of operations. However, we believe long-term revenue growth opportunities outside the United States remain significant because other countries are also focused on controlling health care spending while improving the
efficiency and quality of care that is delivered, and many of these countries recognize HCIT as an important piece of the solution to these issues.

In summary, we believe the fundamental value proposition of HCIT remains strong. The HCIT industry will likely benefit as health care providers and governments continue to recognize that these solutions and
services contribute to safer, more efficient health care.

Cerner Vision and Growth Strategy

For more than 30 years Cerner has been executing its vision to make health care safer and more efficient. We started with the foundation of
digitizing paper processes and now offer what we believe to be the most comprehensive array of solutions, services, hardware, and devices to the health care industry. Since our company began, we have been committed to transformational change in the
vital task of keeping people well. Now more than ever, our focus is on developing the innovations that will help improve the entire health care system. Ultimately, we believe health care is personal and nothing matters more than our health and our
families. As a result, we believe health care is too important to stay the same, and we are focused on changing the way people:

Use and share
information

•We empower providers to base decisions on the best clinical evidence.

•We coordinate care across traditionally fragmented health care systems.

•We provide clinical organizations with reliability, flexibility and continuous innovation available through cloud-based intelligence.

•We provide contextually relevant information to the right people at the right time.

Pay for health and care

•We believe IT investment must be matched with innovative payment models that are easier to navigate.

•We are replacing the current, claims-based system with streamlined electronic payments.

•We develop ways to reward people and their providers for proactively achieving positive health goals.

Think about health

•We empower people to actively engage in their health by providing them with a standards-based, lifetime personal health record.

•We are replacing the reactive “sick care” model with a proactive, personalized plan for health.

Our vision has always guided our large investments in research and development, which have created strong levels of organic growth
throughout our history. Our proven ability to innovate has led to what we believe to be industry-leading solution and device architectures and an unmatched breadth and depth of solutions and services. We believe these strengths position us well to
gain market share in the United States during a period of expected strong demand driven by the HITECH provisions of ARRA and the nation’s focus on improving the efficiency and quality of health care. We also have a strong global brand and a
presence in more than 25 countries and believe we have a good opportunity to gain market share outside of the United States.

In
addition to growth through gaining market share, we have a significant opportunity to grow revenues by expanding our solution footprint in existing clients. There is opportunity to expand penetration of our core solutions, such as EHRs and
computerized physician order entry, and increase penetration of our broad range of complementary solutions that can be offered into our existing client base. Examples include women’s health, anesthesiology, imaging, clinical process
optimization, critical care, medical devices, device connectivity, emergency department, revenue cycle and surgery.






Additionally, we have introduced services in recent years that are targeted
at capturing a larger percent of our clients’ existing IT spending. These services leverage our proven operational capabilities and the success of ourCernerWorksSMmanaged services business, where we have demonstrated the
ability to improve our clients’ service levels at a cost that is at or below amounts they were previously spending. One of these services isCerner ITWorksSM, a suite of solutions and services that improve the ability of
hospital IT departments to meet their organization’s needs while also creating a closer alignment between Cerner and our clients. A second example isCerner RevWorksSM, which includes solutions and services to help health care
organizations improve their revenue cycle functions.

We have made good progress over
the past several years at reducing the total cost of ownership of our solutions, which expands our end market opportunities by allowing us to offer lower-cost, higher-value solutions and services to smaller community hospitals, critical access
hospitals and physician practices. For example, ourCommunityWorksTMoffering leverages a shared instance of theCerner
Millenniumplatform across multiple clients, which decreases the total cost of ownership for these clients.

We also
expect to drive growth over the course of the next decade through initiatives outside the core HCIT market. For example, we offer clinic, pharmacy, wellness and third-party administrator services directly to employers. These offerings have been
shaped by what we have learned from changes we have implemented at Cerner over the past five years. We have removed our third-party administrator and become self-administered, launched an on-site clinic and pharmacy, incorporated biometric
measurements for our population, realigned the economic incentives for associates in our health plan, and implemented a data-driven wellness management program. We also had a very successful weight loss competition that led to over 20,000 pounds of
weight loss across our associate base. These changes have had a significant impact on the health of our associates and have allowed us to do what all employers want to do - reduce health care costs. We believe incorporating this success into our
employer services offerings positions us well in a substantial addressable market of over 8,000 U.S. employers with over 1,000 employees.

As discussed below, another opportunity for future growth, and a significant area of investment for Cerner, is leveraging the vast amounts of data being created as the health care industry is digitized.

Healthe Intent and The New Middle

Over the last several years, we have been focused on developing networks in order to better meet the needs of our clients and the patients they serve. At Cerner, we define a network as a common platform of
learning and improvements from which all our clients can benefit.

One area where coordinating information across the fragmented
delivery system is gaining traction is our Cerner Network and Health Information Exchange (HIE) offerings, which create better clinical integration and coordination of care by facilitating secure electronic flow of data between hospitals, physician
practices, and other stakeholders, regardless of the EHR system being used. At the end of 2011, nearly 100 million clinical and financial transactions were being sent across the network each month.

A key element of our strategy for improving the coordination and quality of care is ourHealthe Intentplatform, a cloud-based
platform that we expect to be the basis for many future offerings. TheHealthe Intentplatform is a smart metadata layer that sits above existing EHR systems and is designed to contain data from any EHR along with claims data, medical
evidence, and research that can facilitate more proactive care. This design also allows us to “future proof” our clients so they can quickly adapt to the increasing use of quality standards, performance measures and eventually managing the
health of populations. We foresee that information management will become an increasing priority for our clients and in the market more widely, and we believe our cloud-based data management solutions and services, our expertise in managing large
datasets for research and our access to granular, real-time clinical information puts us in a unique position to innovate at a pace to meet the dynamic requirements ahead. We believe we are quickly approaching an environment where reporting about
what has already happened is too late, as the intervention must occur real time, with embedded and proactive decision support.

In 2010, we launchedHealthe Intent Chart Search, our first solution on theHealthe Intentplatform, and to date more than 100
clients have signed up to implement this capability.Healthe Intent Chart Searchleverages knowledge of the clinical meanings of words located within the EHR as well as the context in which those words






occur to create algorithms that identify and rank the most important information contextually. This capability allows the physician to efficiently search through a patient’s health record
and identify relevant information in a matter of seconds. In the coming years, we believe theHealthe Intentplatform will continue to evolve in sophistication to the point where it can anticipate and determine the clinical intent based on
the behavior of the specific user, the history of the patient and the context of prior actions.

TheHealthe Intentplatform also provides the ability to apply sophisticated, statistical algorithms against contextual clinical activity to recommend clinical action. For example, our first national Health Agent is an intelligent mechanism developed in collaboration
with clients, which can assist in detecting the conditions that indicate a patient may be developing Sepsis, a potentially fatal condition in which the bloodstream is overwhelmed by bacteria. Nearly 750,000 Americans are affected by Sepsis each
year. Client use of this algorithm has resulted in significant reductions in Sepsis mortality rates in our clients’ patients, and having this capability deployed in the cloud allows us to demonstrate the speed at which new capabilities and
evidence can be deployed to our clients.

As we continue to evolve theHealthe Intentplatform, we believe it will
contribute to major changes in the current health care system. We envision aNew Middlethat will enhance care and reduce friction by facilitating the sharing of relevant clinical and financial information among payers, consumers and
providers. In thisNew Middle, consumers would have a personal health record, giving them ready access to information on both the price and quality of the care they receive. This record would have the consumer’s complete medical history
and a predictive model of future needs based on his or her unique genetic code. Armed with this information, consumers would have financial incentives to focus on controlling chronic conditions and reducing the impact of future maladies.

With more complete patient information, providers could focus on proactive health engagement rather than reactive sick care. Through thisNew Middle, providers could communicate instantly with the rest of the patient’s care team, and they would receive immediate point-of-service payments for the delivery of appropriate care rather than waiting weeks or months while claims
work through the reimbursement process.

Lastly, we believe theNew Middlecould provide the segments of our society that
pay for health care—employers and governments—a health system with less variance, cost and waste while maximizing the quality of care for all of us.

Software Development

We commit significant resources to developing new
health information system solutions and services. As of the end of 2011, approximately 2,700 associates were engaged in research and development activities. Total expenditures for the development and enhancement of our software solutions were
approximately $290.6 million, $284.8 million and $285.2 million during the 2011, 2010 and 2009 fiscal years, respectively. These figures include both capitalized and non-capitalized portions and exclude amounts amortized for financial reporting
purposes.

As discussed above, continued investment in research and development remains a core element of our strategy. This will
include ongoing enhancement of our core solutions and development of new solutions and services.

Sales and Marketing

The markets forCernerHCIT solutions, health care devices and services include integrated delivery networks,
physician groups and networks, managed care organizations, hospitals, medical centers, free-standing reference laboratories, home health agencies, blood banks, imaging centers, pharmacies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, employers, governments and
public health organizations. The majority of our sales are sales of clinical solutions and services to hospital and health systems, but theCerner Millenniumarchitecture is highly scalable and organizations ranging from several-doctor
physician practices, to community hospitals, to complex integrated delivery networks, to local, regional and national government agencies use ourCerner Millenniumsolutions and services.

As previously discussed, we have focused on reducing the total cost of ownership of our systems, which allows us to be price competitive
across the full size and organizational structure range of health care providers. Sales to large health systems typically take approximately nine to 18 months, while the sales cycle is often shorter when selling to smaller hospitals and physician
practices. In some instances, the HITECH provisions of ARRA have shortened the sales process due to the timeline required for hospitals to qualify for stimulus incentives.






Our executive marketing management is located at our Innovation Campus in Kansas City, Missouri, while our client representatives are deployed across the United States and globally. In addition
to the United States, through our subsidiaries, we have sales associates and/or offices giving us a presence in more than 25 countries.

We support our sales force with technical personnel who perform demonstrations ofCernersolutions and services and assist clients in determining the proper hardware and software configurations. Our
primary direct marketing strategy is to generate sales contacts from our existing client base and through presentations at industry seminars and tradeshows. We market thePowerWorks®solutions, offered on a subscription basis, directly to the physician practice market using telemarketing, channel partners and through existing acute care
clients that are looking to extendCernersolutions to affiliated physicians. We attend a number of major tradeshows each year and sponsor executive user conferences, which feature industry experts who address the HCIT needs of large health
care organizations.

Client Services

Substantially all ofCerner’sHCIT software solutions clients enter into software support agreements with us for maintenance and support of theirCernersystems. In addition to immediate
software support in the event of problems, these agreements allow clients to access new releases of theCernersolutions covered by support agreements. Each client has 24-hour access to the client support team located at our world
headquarters in North Kansas City, Missouri and our global support organizations in England and Ireland.

Most clients who buy
hardware through Cerner also enter into hardware maintenance agreements with us. These arrangements normally provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services. In the majority of cases, we utilize subcontractors to meet our hardware maintenance
obligations. We also offer a set of managed services that include remote hosting, operational management services and disaster recovery.

Backlog

At the end of
2011, we had a contract backlog of approximately $5.4 billion as compared to approximately $4.3 billion at the end of 2010. Such backlog represents system sales and services from signed contracts that have not yet been recognized as revenue. At the
end of 2011, we had $81.8 million of contracts receivable compared to $139.9 million at the end of 2010, which represents revenues recognized but not yet billable under the terms of the contract. At the end of 2011, we had a software support and
maintenance backlog of approximately $705.7 million as compared to approximately $654.9 million at the end of 2010. Such backlog represents contracted software support and hardware maintenance services for a period of 12 months. We estimate that
approximately 30 percent of the aggregate backlog at the end of 2011 of $6.1 billion will be recognized as revenue during 2012.

Competition

The market
for HCIT solutions, devices and services is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. Our principal competitors in the health care solutions and services market include: Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc.,
Computer Programs and Systems, Inc. (CPSI), Epic Systems Corporation, GE Healthcare Technologies, Healthcare Management Systems, Inc. (HMS), Healthland, Inc., Computer Sciences Corporation (iSoft), Keane, Inc., McKesson Corporation, Medical
Information Technology, Inc. (Meditech), Siemens Medical Solutions Health Services Corporation, and Quadramed Corporation, each of which offers a suite of software solutions that compete with many of our software solutions and services.

Other competitors focus on only a portion of the market that we address. For example, competitors such as Accenture plc, Affiliated Computer
Services (ACS), Cap Gemini S. A., Computer Task Group, Inc. (CTGHS), Dell, Inc., Deloitte Consulting LLP, Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM Corporation and maxIT Healthcare LLC offer HCIT services that compete directly with some of our service offerings.
AmazingCharts.com, Inc., Athenahealth, Inc., eClinicalWorks LLC, e-MDs, Inc., Greenway Medical Technologies, MED3000, Inc., Quality Systems, Inc., Sevocity (a division of Conceptual MindWorks, Inc.) and Vitera Healthcare Solutions (formerly Sage
Software Healthcare LLC) offer solutions to the physician practice market but do not currently have a significant presence in the health systems and independent hospital market.






Cerner partners with third parties as a reseller of devices and markets its own competing
proprietary health care devices. We view our principal competitors in the health care device market to include: API Healthcare, CapsuleTech, Inc., CareFusion Corporation, GE Healthcare Technologies, iSirona, LLC, McKesson Corporation and Omnicell,
Inc. We view our principal competitors in the health care revenue cycle transactions market to include: Accretive Health, Inc., Capario, Inc., Emdeon Corporation, McKesson Corporation, MedAssets, Inc., Optum, Inc., SSI Group, Inc. and 3M Company
with almost all of these competitors being substantially larger or having more experience and market share than us in their respective markets.

In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start-up companies, managed care companies and
others specializing in the health care industry may offer competitive software solutions, devices or services. The pace of change in the HCIT market is rapid and there are frequent new software solutions, devices or services introductions,
enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market include the breadth and quality of solution and service offerings, the stability of the solution provider, the features
and capabilities of the information systems and devices, the ongoing support for the systems and devices and the potential for enhancements and future compatible software solutions and devices.

Number of Employees (Associates)

At
the end of 2011, we employed approximately 9,900 associates worldwide.

Operating Segments

Information about our operating segments, which are geographically based, may be found in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and in Note (18) to the consolidated financial statements.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names, ages, positions and certain other information regarding the Company’s executive officers as of February 9, 2012. Officers are elected annually and serve at
the discretion of the Board of Directors.



NameAgePositionsNeal L. Patterson62Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentClifford W. Illig61Vice Chairman of the Board of DirectorsMarc G. Naughton56Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMichael R. Nill47Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerRandy D. Sims51Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and SecretaryJeffrey A. Townsend48Executive Vice President and Chief of StaffJulia M. Wilson49Senior Vice President and Chief People OfficerZane M. Burke46Executive Vice President - Client Organization

Neal L. Patterson has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for
more than five years. Mr. Patterson has served as President of the Company since July 2010, which position he also held from March of 1999 until August of 1999.






Clifford W. Illig has been a Director of the Company for more than five years. He previously
served as Chief Operating Officer of the Company until October 1998 and as President of the Company until March of 1999. Mr. Illig was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors in March of 1999.

Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager of Taxes. In November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer and in
February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2002 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2010.

Michael R. Nill joined the Company in November 1996. Since that time he has held several positions in the Technology, Intellectual Property andCernerWorksClient Hosting Organizations. He was
promoted to Vice President in January 2000, promoted to Senior Vice President in April 2006 and promoted to Executive Vice President and named Chief Engineering Officer in February 2009. Mr. Nill was appointed Chief Operating Officer in May
2011.

Randy D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and was promoted to Senior Vice
President in March 2011. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims worked at Farmland Industries, Inc. for three years where he last served as Associate General Counsel. Prior to Farmland, Mr. Sims was in-house legal counsel at The Marley
Company for seven years, holding the position of Assistant General Counsel when he left to join Farmland.

Jeffrey A. Townsend
joined the Company in June 1985. Since that time he has held several positions in the Intellectual Property Organization and was promoted to Vice President in February 1997. He was appointed Chief Engineering Officer in March 1998, promoted to
Senior Vice President in March 2001, named Chief of Staff in July 2003 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2005.

Julia M. Wilson joined the Company in November 1995. Since that time, she has held several positions in the Functional Group Organization.
She was promoted to Vice President and Chief People Officer in August 2003 and to Senior Vice President in March 2007.

Zane
Burke joined the Company in September 1996. Since that time, he has held a variety of client-facing sales, implementation and support roles, including Corporate Controller and Vice President of Finance. He was promoted to President of the
Company’s West region in 2002 and U.S. General Manager for client relationships in 2007. He was further promoted to Executive Vice President - Client Organization in May 2011.






