Item 1. Business

Overview

Cerner Corporation is a Delaware business corporation formed in 1980. Unless the context otherwise
requires, references in this report to “Cerner,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean Cerner
Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Our corporate headquarters are located at 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri
64117. Our telephone number is 816.221.1024. Our Web site address, which we use to communicate
important business information, can be accessed at: www.cerner.com. We make our annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those
reports available free of charge on or through this Web site as soon as reasonably practicable
after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).

Cerner’s mission is to contribute to the systemic improvements of healthcare delivery and the
health of communities. We are a leading supplier of healthcare information technology (HIT)
solutions, healthcare devices and related services, and are transforming healthcare by eliminating
error, variance and waste for healthcare providers and consumers.Cerner®solutions optimize
processes for healthcare organizations ranging in size from single-doctor practices, to health
systems, to entire countries, for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, for consumers
of healthcare and for the healthcare commerce system. These solutions are licensed by approximately
9,000 facilities around the world, including more than 2,600 hospitals; 3,500 physician practices
covering more than 30,000 physicians; 500 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory
centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 800 home health facilities; and
1,600 retail pharmacies.

We design and develop most of our software solutions on the unifiedCerner Millennium®architecture, a person-centric computing framework, which combines clinical, financial and
management information systems. This architecture allows providers to securely access an
individual’s electronic health record (EHR) at the point of care, and it organizes and proactively
delivers information to meet the specific needs of physicians, nurses, laboratory technicians,
pharmacists, front- and back-office professionals and consumers.

We also offer a broad range of services, including implementation and training, remote hosting,
operational management services, revenue cycle services, support and maintenance, healthcare data
analysis, clinical process optimization, transaction processing, employer health centers, employee
wellness programs and third party administrator (TPA) services for employer-based health plans.

The following table presents our consolidated revenues by major solutions and services and by
segment, as a percentage of total revenues:

For the Years Ended201020092008Revenues by CategorySystem sales30%30%31%Support and maintenance28%29%28%Services40%39%39%Reimbursed travel2%2%2%100%100%100%Revenues by SegmentDomestic84%84%78%Global16%16%22%100%100%100%





The Healthcare and Healthcare IT Industry

We believe there are several factors that are favorable for the HIT industry over the next decade,
despite some lingering weakness in the global economy. Because HIT solutions play an important role
in healthcare by improving safety, efficiency and reducing cost, they are often viewed as more
strategic than other capital purchases. Most United States healthcare providers also recognize that
they must invest in HIT to meet regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements
and incentive opportunities. In addition, with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
estimating United States healthcare spending at $2.6 trillion or 17.5 percent of 2010 Gross
Domestic Product, politicians and policymakers agree that the growing cost of our healthcare system
is unsustainable. Leaders of both political parties recognize that the intelligent use of
information systems will improve health outcomes and, correspondingly, drive down costs. This
belief is supported by a 2005 study by RAND Corp., which estimated that the widespread adoption of
HIT in the United States could cut healthcare costs by $162 billion annually.

The broad recognition that HIT is essential to helping control healthcare costs and improve quality
contributed to the inclusion of HIT incentives in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
(ARRA). The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) provisions
within ARRA include more than $35 billion in incentives for healthcare organizations to modernize
operations through “meaningful use” of HIT. These incentives are contributing to increased demand
for HIT solutions and services in the United States.

Another element in the United States marketplace is the recently passed healthcare reform
legislation. We believe the legislation, which promises to drive insurance coverage to an estimated
32 million additional consumers, could have many second order effects on our clients. For example,
healthcare providers may face increased volumes that could create capacity constraints, and they
may find it challenging to profitably provide care at the planned reimbursement rates under the
expanded coverage models. We also expect additional compliance and reporting challenges for our
clients in the areas of pay-for-quality, ICD-10 coding requirements, and waste, fraud and abuse
measures.

We believe the above factors create strong incentives for providers to maximize efficiency and
create the need for additional investments in HIT solutions and services. Cerner is well positioned
to benefit from this expected increase in demand due to our large footprint in United States
hospitals and physician practices and our proven ability to deliver value to our clients.

Outside the United States, the economic downturn of the last few years has impacted and could
continue to impact our results. However, we believe long-term revenue growth opportunities outside
the United States remain significant because other countries are also focused on controlling
healthcare spending while improving the efficiency and quality of care that is delivered, and many
of these countries recognize HIT as an important piece of the solution to these issues.

In summary, while the current economic environment has impacted our business, we believe the
fundamental value proposition of HIT remains strong. The HIT industry will likely benefit as
healthcare providers and governments continue to recognize that these solutions and services
contribute to safer, more efficient healthcare.

Cerner Vision

Cerner’s vision has evolved from a fundamental thought: Healthcare should revolve around the
individual, not the encounter. This concept led to Cerner’s vision of the unifiedCerner Millenniumarchitecture and a Community Health Model, which encompasses four steps:

Automate the Care Process

We offer a longitudinal, person-centric EHR, which gives clinicians electronic access to the right
information at the right time and place to achieve optimal health outcomes.

Connect the Person





We are dedicated to building a personal health system. Medical information and care regimens
accessible from home empower consumers to effectively manage their conditions and adhere to
treatment plans, creating a new medium between physicians and individuals.

Structure the Knowledge

We are dedicated to building systems that help bring the best science to every medical decision by
structuring, storing and studying the content surrounding each care episode to achieve optimal
clinical and financial outcomes.

Close the Loop

Incorporating a medical discovery into daily practice can take as long as 10 years. We are
dedicated to building systems that implement evidence-based medicine, reducing the average time
between discovery of an improved method to a change in the standard of care.

As our vision evolves, we expect medicine will become increasingly personalized and technology more
accessible. We are creating new solutions and collaborative, information-sharing networks for large
user communities, including strategies to:

•Connect all stakeholders in the healthcare system, including payers (employers and
governments), providers and consumers•Remove clinical, financial and administrative friction•Create a secure, transparent and open network for data sharing to improve disease
management and facilitate personalized medicine

To achieve this vision, we are leveraging theCerner Millenniumarchitecture and expanding our
solutions and services, as discussed below.

Cerner Growth Strategy

Our business strategies are anchored by our industry-leading solution and device architectures, the
breadth and depth of our solutions and services, our proven ability to deliver value, and, most
importantly, the success of our clients. A core strength that has led to this strong market
position is our proven ability to innovate, which has driven consistent expansion of solutions and
services, entry into new markets and strong long-term growth.

We believe our strengths position us well to gain market share in the United States during a period
of expected strong demand driven by the HITECH provisions of ARRA and the nation’s focus on
improving the efficiency and quality of healthcare. We also have a strong global brand and a
presence in more than 25 countries and believe we have a good opportunity to gain market share
outside of the United States.

We also have a significant opportunity to grow revenues by expanding our solution footprint in
existing clients. In addition to the opportunity to expand penetration of our core solutions, such
as EHRs and computerized physician order entry, we have a broad range of complementary solutions
that can be offered into our existing client base. Examples include solutions and services for
women’s health, anesthesiology, imaging, clinical process optimization, critical care, medical
device connectivity, emergency department, revenue cycle and surgery.

Additionally, we have introduced new services targeted at capturing a larger percent of our
clients’ existing IT spending. These services leverage our proven operational capabilities and the
success of ourCernerWorksSMmanaged services business, where we have demonstrated the
ability to improve our clients’ service levels at a cost that is at or below amounts they were
previously spending. One of these new services isCerner ITWorksSM,a suite of services
that improve the ability of hospital IT departments to meet their organization’s needs while also
creating a closer alignment between Cerner and our clients. A second example isCerner
RevWorksSM, which includes solutions and services to help healthcare organizations
improve their revenue cycle functions.

We have made good progress over the past several years at reducing the total cost of ownership of
our solutions, which expands our end market opportunities by allowing us to offer lower-cost,
higher-value solutions and services to smaller community hospitals, critical access hospitals and
physician practices. For example, ourCommunityWorksoffering leverages a shared instance of theCerner Millenniumplatform across multiple clients, which decreases the total cost of ownership for
these clients. Our ability to address these markets has also been
aided by ourBedrock®technology, which automates much





of the implementation and management of theCerner Millenniumplatform. We have also streamlined implementations and made them more
predictable through ourMethodM®implementation methodology, which draws upon practices proven to
be effective during thousands of past implementations. Additionally, we are reducing up-front
hardware costs and ongoing technology obsolescence risks through our remote-hosted, managed
services offering,CernerWorks.

We also expect to drive growth over the course of the next decade through initiatives outside the
core HIT market. For example, we offer clinic, pharmacy and wellness services directly to
employers and we expanded our presence in the employer-sponsored health center market with the
acquisition of IMC Health Care, Inc. in January 2010. Additionally, as described below, we believe
being able to connect employers, governments and consumers directly with their healthcare providers
through aNew Middle™presents a substantial growth opportunity as we aim to help eliminate the
friction that consumes more than 30 percent of healthcare spending.

Creating the Cerner Network and The New Middle

Several years ago, we introduced a surveillance system called theLightsOn Network®, which
identifies performance problems in real time and has the ability to predict issues that could
create system vulnerability. With more than 300 participating clients, theLightsOnsolution has
become an evidence-based network that enhances performance and allows our clients to maximize the
value they gain from our systems. OurLightsOnsolution also shows our ability to create a
network—a common platform of learning and improvements from which all our clients can benefit.

Along these lines, we have created theuCern™ platform, a collaboration and social networking
platform which gives clients a place where they can collaborate with peers or Cerner associates
about topics ranging from healthcare reform to solution enhancements to project status updates.
Approximately 95 percent of our coreCerner Millenniumclients actively engage on this platform.
Additionally, we have created theuDevelop™ solution, a collaborative ecosystem that supports a
unique audience of engineers, including both our associates and external developers, who work to
improve our solutions; and theuCernStore, which offers our clients quick access to innovations
developed by Cerner, as well as outside organizations and individuals.

To highlight one area where coordinating information across the fragmented delivery system is
gaining traction, our Cerner Network and Health Information Exchange (HIE) offerings create better
clinical integration and coordination of care by facilitating secure electronic flow of data
between hospitals, physician practices, and other stakeholders, regardless of the EHR system being
used. We have had early success with our clients in building out HIEs and Cerner Network services
that are providing value, and nearly 50 million clinical and financial transactions go across the
network each month.

Another key element of our strategy for improving the coordination and quality of care is ourHealthe IntentTMplatform, a cloud-based platform that we expect to be the basis for
many future offerings. In 2010, we launchedHealthe Intent Chart Search, our first solution on
this platform.Healthe Intent Chart Searchleverages knowledge of the clinical meanings of words
located within the EMR as well as the context in which those words occur to create algorithms that
identify and rank the most important information contextually. This capability allows the
physician to efficiently search through a patient’s health record and identify relevant information
in a matter of seconds. In the coming years, we believe theHealthe Intentplatform will continue
to evolve in sophistication to the point where it can anticipate and determine the clinical intent
based on the behavior of the specific user, the history of the patient and the context of prior
actions.

TheHealthe Intentplatform also provides the ability to apply sophisticated, statistical
algorithms against contextual clinical activity to recommend clinical action. For example, our
first national Health Agent is an intelligent mechanism developed in collaboration with clients,
which can assist in detecting the conditions that indicate a patient may be developing Sepsis, a
potentially fatal condition in which the bloodstream is overwhelmed by bacteria. Nearly 750,000
Americans are affected by Sepsis each year. Early results based on initial client use of this
algorithm have reflected remarkable reductions in Sepsis mortality rates, and we believe that
moving this capability to a Health Agent in the cloud will allow us to demonstrate the speed at
which new capabilities and evidence can be deployed to our clients.

Through these connections and networks, we are creating the building blocks for an entirely new
healthcare system that will introduce much-needed competition for our current, insurance-based
infrastructure. In this new
system, aNew Middlewould enhance care and reduce friction by facilitating the sharing of relevant
clinical and financial information between payers, consumers and providers.





Furthermore, in theNew Middle, consumers would have a personal health record, giving them ready
access to information on both the price and quality of the care they receive. This record would
have the consumer’s complete medical history and a predictive model of future needs based on his or
her unique genetic code. Armed with this information, consumers would have financial incentives to
focus on controlling chronic conditions and reducing the impact of future maladies.

With more complete patient information, providers could focus on preventive rather than reactive
medicine. Through thisNew Middle, providers could communicate instantly with the rest of the
patient’s care team, and they would receive immediate point-of-service payments for the delivery of
appropriate care rather than waiting weeks or months while claims work through the reimbursement
process.

Lastly, we believe theNew Middlewould provide the segments of our society that pay for
healthcare—employers or governments—a health system with less variance, cost and waste while
maximizing the quality of care for all of us.

Software Development

We commit significant resources to developing new health information system solutions. As of the
end of 2010, approximately 2,400 associates were engaged in research and development activities.
Total expenditures for the development and enhancement of our software solutions were approximately
$284.8 million, $285.2 million and $291.4 million during the 2010, 2009 and 2008 fiscal years,
respectively. These figures include both capitalized and non-capitalized portions and exclude
amounts amortized for financial reporting purposes.

As discussed above, continued investment in research and development remains a core element of our
strategy. This will include ongoing enhancement of our core solutions and development of new
solutions and services.

Sales and Marketing

The markets forCernerHIT solutions, healthcare devices and services include integrated delivery
networks, physician groups and networks, managed care organizations, hospitals, medical centers,
free-standing reference laboratories, home health agencies, blood banks, imaging centers,
pharmacies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, employers, governments and public health organizations.
The majority of our sales are sales of clinical solutions and services to hospital and health
systems, but theCerner Millenniumarchitecture is highly scalable and organizations ranging from
several-doctor physician practices, to community hospitals, to complex integrated delivery
networks, to local, regional and national government agencies use ourCerner Millenniumsolutions.

As previously discussed, we have focused on reducing the total cost of ownership of our systems,
which allows us to be price competitive across the full size and organizational structure range of
healthcare providers. Sales to large health systems typically take approximately nine to 18 months,
while the sales cycle is often shorter when selling to smaller hospitals and physician practices.
We have seen some indications that the HITECH provisions of ARRA may shorten the sales process due
to the timeline required for hospitals to earn stimulus incentives.

Our executive marketing management is located at our Innovation Campus in Kansas City, Missouri,
while our client representatives are deployed across the United States and globally. In addition to
the United States, through our subsidiaries, we have sales associates and/or offices in Australia,
Canada, Chile, England, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain
and the United Arab Emirates.

We support our sales force with technical personnel who perform demonstrations ofCernersolutions
and services and assist clients in determining the proper hardware and software configurations. Our
primary direct marketing strategy is to generate sales contacts from our existing client base and
through presentations at industry seminars and tradeshows. We market thePowerWorks®solutions,
offered on a subscription basis, directly to the physician practice market using telemarketing,
channel partners and through existing acute care clients that are looking to extendCernersolutions to affiliated physicians. We attend a number of major tradeshows each year and sponsor
executive user conferences, which feature industry experts who address the HIT needs of large
healthcare organizations.

Client Services

Substantially all ofCerner’sHIT software solutions clients enter into software maintenance
agreements with us for support of theirCernersystems. In addition to immediate software support
in the event of problems, these agreements allow clients to access new releases of theCernersolutions covered by maintenance agreements. Each client has 24-hour access to the





client support
team located at our world headquarters in North Kansas City, Missouri and our global support
organizations in England and Ireland.

Most clients who buy hardware through Cerner also enter into hardware maintenance agreements with
us. These arrangements normally provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services. In the
majority of cases, we utilize subcontractors to meet our hardware maintenance obligations. We also
offer a set of managed services that include remote hosting, operational management services and
disaster recovery.

Backlog

At the end of 2010, we had a contract backlog of approximately $4.3 billion as compared to
approximately $3.6 billion at the end of 2009. Such backlog represents system sales and services
from signed contracts that have not yet been recognized as revenue. At the end of 2010, we had
approximately $140.0 million of contracts receivable compared to $135.3 million at the end of 2009,
which represents revenues recognized but not yet billable under the terms of the contract. At the
end of 2010, we had a software support and maintenance backlog of approximately $654.9 million as
compared to approximately $620.6 million at the end of 2009. Such backlog represents contracted
software support and hardware maintenance services for a period of 12 months. We estimate that
approximately 31 percent of the aggregate backlog at the end of 2010 of $4.9 billion will be
recognized as revenue during 2011.

Competition

The market for HIT solutions, devices and services is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and
subject to rapid technological change. Our principal competitors in the healthcare solutions and
services market include: Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., Computer Programs and Systems,
Inc., Epic Systems Corporation, GE Healthcare Technologies, iSoft Group Limited, McKesson
Corporation, Medical Information Technology, Inc. (Meditech) and Siemens Medical Solutions Health
Services Corporation, each of which offers a suite of software solutions that compete with many of
our software solutions and services.

Other competitors focus on only a portion of the market that we address. For example, competitors
such as Accenture, Capgemini, Computer Sciences Corporation, Computer Task Group, Inc. (CTG), Dell,
Inc., Deloitte LLP, Hewlett-Packard Company and IBM Corporation offer HIT services that compete
directly with our consulting services. Athenahealth, Inc., eClinicalWorks LLC, e-MDs, Inc.,
Greenway Medical Technologies, Quality Systems, Inc. and Sage Software Healthcare LLC offer
solutions to the physician practice market but do not currently have a significant presence in the
health systems and independent hospital market.

Cerner partners with third parties as a reseller of devices and markets its own competing
proprietary healthcare devices; we view our principal competitors in the healthcare device market
to include: CapsuleTech, Inc., CareFusion Corporation, GE Healthcare Technologies, McKesson
Corporation, Omnicell, Inc. and Royal Philips Electronics; and we view our principal competitors in
the healthcare transactions market to include: Capario, Inc., Emdeon Corporation, Ingenix, Inc. (a
subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group, Inc.) and McKesson Corporation, with almost all of these
competitors being substantially larger or having more experience and market share than us in their
respective market.

In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information
technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start-up companies, managed care
companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive software
solutions, devices or services. The pace of change in the HIT market is rapid and there are
frequent new software solutions, devices or service introductions, enhancements and evolving
industry standards and requirements. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this
market include the breadth and quality of solution and service offerings, the stability of the
solution provider, the features and capabilities of the information systems and devices, the
ongoing support for the systems and devices and the potential for enhancements and future
compatible software solutions and devices.

Number of Employees (Associates)

At the end of 2010, we employed approximately 8,200 associates worldwide.

Operating Segments





Information about our operating segments, which are geographically based, may be found in Item 7
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and
in Note (18) to the financial statements.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names, ages, positions and certain other information regarding
the Company’s executive officers as of February 10, 2011. Officers are elected annually and serve
at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

NameAgePositionsNeal L. Patterson61Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer
and PresidentClifford W. Illig60Vice Chairman of the Board of DirectorsMarc G. Naughton55Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMichael R. Nill46Executive Vice President and Chief Engineering OfficerRandy D. Sims50Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and SecretaryJeffrey A. Townsend47Executive Vice PresidentMike Valentine42Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerJulia M. Wilson48Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer

Neal L. Patterson has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company for more than five years. Mr. Patterson has served as President of the Company since July
2010, which position he also held from March of 1999 until August of 1999.

Clifford W. Illig has been a Director of the Company for more than five years. He previously
served as Chief Operating Officer of the Company until October 1998 and as President of the Company
until March of 1999. Mr. Illig was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors in March of
1999.

Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager of Taxes. In November 1995 he was
named Chief Financial Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President. He was
promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2002 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March
2010.

Michael
R. Nill joined the Company in November  1996. Since that time he has held several positions
in the Technology, Intellectual Property andCernerWorksclient hosting organizations. He was
promoted to Vice President in January 2000, promoted to Senior Vice President in April 2006 and
promoted to Executive Vice President and named Chief Engineering Officer in February 2009.

Randy D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President and Chief Legal Officer. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Sims worked at Farmland Industries, Inc. for three years where he served
most recently as Associate General Counsel. Prior to Farmland, Mr. Sims was in-house legal counsel
at The Marley Company for seven years, holding the position of Assistant General Counsel when he
left to join Farmland.

Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985. Since that time he has held several positions
in the Intellectual Property Organization and was promoted to Vice President in February 1997. He
was appointed Chief





Engineering Officer in March 1998, promoted to Senior Vice President in March
2001 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2005.Mike Valentine joined the Company in December 1998 as Director of Technology. He was promoted to
Vice President in 2000 and to President of Cerner Mid America in January of 2003. In February
2005, he was named General Manager of the United States Client Organization and was promoted to
Senior Vice President in March 2005. He was promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2007 and
named Chief Operation Officer in January 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Valentine was
with Accenture Consulting.Julia M. Wilson joined the Company in November 1995. Since that time, she has held several
positions in the Functional Group Organization. She was promoted to Vice President and Chief
People Officer in August 2003 and to Senior Vice President in March 2007.8






