Item 1. Business



Overview

Cerner Corporation started doing business in 1980, and it was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1986. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this report to “Cerner,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean Cerner Corporation and its subsidiaries.



Our corporate world headquarters is located in a Company-owned office park in North Kansas City, Missouri, with our principal place of business located at 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri 64117. Our telephone number is 816.221.1024. Our Web site address, which we use to communicate important business information, can be accessed at: www.cerner.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on or through this Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Cerner’s mission is to contribute to the systemic improvement of health care delivery and the health of communities. We are a leading supplier of health care information technology (HCIT) solutions, services, devices and hardware. Our solutions optimize processes and help eliminate errors, variance and waste for health care organizations ranging from single-doctor practices to entire countries, for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, and for the field of health care as a whole. These solutions are licensed by approximately 10,000 facilities around the world, including more than 2,700 hospitals; 4,150 physician practices; 45,000 physicians; 550 ambulatory facilities, such as laboratories, ambulatory centers, behavioral health centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics and surgery centers; 800 home health facilities; 45 employer sites and 1,750 retail pharmacies.



We design and develop most of our software solutions on the unified Cerner Millennium®architecture, a person-centric computing framework, which combines clinical, financial and management information systems. This architecture allows providers to securely access an individual’s electronic health record (EHR) at the point of care, and it organizes and proactively delivers information to meet the specific needs of physicians, nurses, laboratory technicians, pharmacists, front- and back-office professionals and consumers. In recent years, we have extended this platform to include the next evolution ofCerner Millennium, Millennium+™, which leverages the cloud and enables greater mobility. We have also created the Healthe IntentTMplatform, a cloud-based platform that enables a new generation of solutions to leverage the increasing amount of data being captured as the health care industry is digitized. On theHealthe Intentplatform, we are building solutions based on sophisticated, statistical algorithms that are intended to help providers predict and improve outcomes, control costs, and improve quality.



We offer a broad range of services, including implementation and training, remote hosting, operational management services, revenue cycle services, support and maintenance, health care data analysis, clinical process optimization, transaction processing, employer health centers, employee wellness programs and third party administrator (TPA) services for employer-based health plans.



In addition to software and services, we offer a wide range of complementary hardware and devices, both directly from Cerner and as a reseller for third parties.











The following table presents our consolidated revenues by major solutions and services and by segment, as a percentage of total revenues:



For the Years Ended201220112010Revenues by Solutions & ServicesSystem sales34%32%30%Support and maintenance23%25%28%Services41%41%40%Reimbursed travel2%2%2%100%100%100%Revenues by SegmentDomestic88%86%84%Global12%14%16%100%100%100%



Health Care and Health Care IT Industry

We believe there are several factors that are favorable for the HCIT industry over the next decade. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) estimates United States health care spending in 2012 at $2.8 trillion, or 17.9 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and projects it to be 19.2 percent of GDP by 2020. We believe this growing cost of our health care system is unsustainable. We also believe the intelligent use of information systems can help reduce costs while also improving health outcomes. Further, most United States health care providers recognize that they must invest in HCIT to meet regulatory requirements, comply with government reimbursement requirements, and qualify for incentives. The importance of HCIT in facilitating this compliance along with the benefits of improving safety, efficiency and reducing costs, leads to investments in HCIT being viewed as more strategic than many other capital purchases, and supports our belief that we are positioned for continued growth.



An ongoing contributor to our growth is the inclusion of HCIT incentives in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) provisions within ARRA include more than $35 billion in incentives for health care organizations to modernize operations through “Meaningful Use” of HCIT. Hospitals and physicians that met the first of three stages of Meaningful Use criteria of the ARRA began receiving incentive funds in 2011, and the ongoing incentive program is contributing to continued demand for HCIT solutions and services in the United States. In addition to the demand created by existing clients seeking solutions and services to ensure they are positioned to qualify for incentives, we are seeing significant demand outside of our installed base from hospitals that previously chose a system from another supplier.  We believe these hospitals are looking to change to a platform that better positions them for success as later stages of Meaningful Use and other regulatory requirements require more sophisticated IT systems.



Another trend in the United States marketplace that we believe will contribute to demand is the shift away from fee-for-service or volume-based reimbursement towards value-based or outcomes-based reimbursement. Payers, including health insurance companies and federal and state governments, are implementing programs to link reimbursement to quality measurements and outcomes, and we believe this alignment creates significant financial motivation for HCIT adoption. Within our current client base, we estimate that there could be more than $5 billion of annual reimbursement at risk tied to Value Based Purchasing, Medicare 30-day readmission rules, and quality reporting requirements by 2017. In order to comply with these programs, we believe our clients will need to expand their data analytics and reporting capabilities through the use of HCIT solutions and services.  Ultimately, we believe all of these shifts are leading to an environment in which health care providers will become accountable for proactively managing the health of the populations they serve, and this will require ongoing investment in sophisticated information technology solutions that will enable them to predict when intervention is needed so they can improve outcomes and lower the cost of providing care.



In recent years, we have also seen a shift in the United States marketplace towards a preference for a single platform across inpatient and ambulatory settings. The number of physicians employed by hospitals has increased significantly as hospitals have acquired physician groups in order to ensure a consistent stream of referrals, and health systems are recognizing the benefit of having a single patient record at the hospital and the physician office. We are benefiting from this trend due to our unifiedCerner Millenniumplatform that spans multiple venues and due to the significant enhancements we have made to









our physician solutions in recent years.



Outside the United States, the economic downturn of the last several years has impacted and could continue to impact our results of operations. However, we believe long-term revenue growth opportunities outside the United States remain significant because other countries are also focused on controlling health care spending while improving the efficiency and quality of care that is delivered, and many of these countries recognize HCIT as an important piece of the solution to these issues.



Cerner Vision and Growth Strategy

For more than 30 years, Cerner has been executing its vision to make health care safer and more efficient. We started with the foundation of digitizing paper processes and now offer what we believe to be the most comprehensive array of solutions, services, hardware, and devices to the health care industry. Since our company began, we have been committed to transformational change in the vital task of keeping people healthy. Now more than ever, our focus is on developing the innovations that will help improve the entire health care system. Ultimately, we believe health care is personal and nothing matters more than our health and our families. As a result, we believe health care is too important to stay the same, and we are focused on changing the way people:



Use and share information

•We empower providers to base decisions on the best clinical evidence.

•We coordinate care across traditionally fragmented health care systems.

•We provide clinical organizations with reliability, flexibility and continuous innovation available through cloud-based intelligence.

•We provide contextually relevant information to the right people at the right time.



Pay for health and care

•We believe IT investment must be matched with innovative payment models that are easier to navigate.

•We are replacing the current, claims-based system with streamlined electronic payments.

•We develop ways to reward people and their providers for proactively achieving positive health goals.



Think about health

•We empower people to actively engage in their health by providing them with a standards-based, lifetime personal health record.

•We are replacing the reactive “sick care” model with a proactive, personalized plan for health.



Our vision has always guided our large investments in research and development, which have created strong levels of organic growth throughout our history. Our proven ability to innovate has led to what we believe to be industry-leading solution and device architectures and an unmatched breadth and depth of solutions and services. We believe these strengths position us well to gain market share in the United States during a period of expected strong demand driven by the HITECH provisions of ARRA and the nation’s focus on improving the efficiency and quality of health care. We also have a strong global brand and a presence in more than 25 countries and believe we have a good opportunity to gain market share outside of the United States.



In addition to growth by gaining market share, we have a significant opportunity to grow revenues by expanding our solution footprint with existing clients. There is opportunity to expand penetration of our core solutions, such as EHRs and computerized physician order entry, and increase penetration of our broad range of complementary solutions that can be offered into our existing client base. Examples include women’s health, anesthesiology, imaging, clinical process optimization, critical care, medical devices, device connectivity, emergency department, revenue cycle and surgery.



We have also introduced services in recent years that are targeted at capturing a larger percent of our clients’ existing IT spending. These services leverage our proven operational capabilities and the success of our CernerWorksSMmanaged services business, where we have demonstrated the ability to improve our clients’ service levels at a cost that is at or below amounts they were previously spending. One of these services is Cerner ITWorksSM, a suite of solutions and services that improve the ability of hospital IT departments to meet their organization’s needs while also creating a closer alignment between Cerner and our clients. A second example is Cerner RevWorksSM, which includes solutions and services to help health care organizations improve their revenue cycle functions.



We have made good progress over the past several years at reducing the total cost of ownership of our solutions, which









expands our end market opportunities by allowing us to offer lower-cost, higher-value solutions and services to smaller community hospitals, critical access hospitals and physician practices. For example, our CommunityWorksTMoffering leverages a shared instance of theCerner Millenniumplatform across multiple clients, which decreases the total cost of ownership for these clients.



We also expect to drive growth over the course of the next decade through initiatives outside the core HCIT market. For example, we offer clinic, pharmacy, wellness and third-party administrator services directly to employers. These offerings have been shaped by what we have learned from changes we have implemented at Cerner over the past six years. We have removed our third-party administrator and become self-administered, launched an on-site clinic and pharmacy, incorporated biometric measurements for our population, realigned the economic incentives for associates in our health plan, and implemented a data-driven wellness management program. These changes have had a significant impact on the health of our associates and have allowed us to do what all employers want to do - reduce health care costs. We believe incorporating this success into our employer services offerings positions us well in a substantial addressable market of over 8,000 U.S. employers with over 1,000 employees.



As discussed below, another opportunity for future growth, and a significant area of investment for Cerner, is leveraging the vast amounts of data being created as the health care industry is digitized and using this data to help providers manage the health of populations.



Population Health

Today's system of episodic, fee-for-service care is characterized by waiting until a condition advances to the point of definite illness and complications to initiate costly and less effective treatment. We believe information technology will play a key role in a revolution to promote and manage health by helping predict what will happen in the future and allowing for lower cost interventions that can prevent harmful, costly outcomes.



For health care providers, population health management means serving patients with more precision. It means preventing potentially avoidable complications by developing prescriptive personalized health plans and applying preventative care to keep more people in a state of health, delaying and possibly preventing or reversing the effects of chronic disease, and using acute care as the last resort.



While this approach is logical and desirable, our system of care is structured in a way that physicians and hospitals get paid when people experience illness, not when they remain healthy. This is beginning to change through the formation of organizations, often called Accountable Care Organizations, which reward health systems for keeping healthy people healthy and for delivering higher quality and lower cost care to a defined population. As the industry continues down this path of creating incentives for managing the health of populations, we believe there will be significant new opportunities for Cerner.



We are already providing solutions and services to many of our clients that are foundational elements for population health. Examples of these include data liquidity through ourCerner Networkinteroperability and health information exchange offerings, Lighthouse Enterprise Data Warehousing and Quality solutions, our patient portal platform and personal health record solutions that offer a range of device and provider connectivity options and wellness offerings.



Supporting these solutions isHealthe Intent, which is our cloud-based architectural platform for population health that is agnostic to the source EHR and is also able to capture research, evidence, and financial and operational data.Healthe Intentalso supportsChart Search, which leverages knowledge of the clinical meanings of words located within the EHR as well as the context in which those words occur to create algorithms that identify and rank the most important information contextually. This capability allows the physician to efficiently search through a patient's health record and identify relevant information in a matter of seconds.Chart Searchadoption has now hit a tipping point across our client base, with more than 50 percent of our U.S.client base utilizing the solution.



TheHealthe Intentplatform also provides the ability to apply sophisticated, statistical algorithms against contextual clinical activity to recommend clinical action. We have illustrated this with our sepsis agent, which can assist in detecting the conditions that indicate a patient may be developing sepsis, a potentially fatal condition in which the bloodstream is overwhelmed by bacteria. Clients that have implemented this agent as part of a comprehensive sepsis prevention process have experienced significant reductions in sepsis mortality rates, and the adoption in our client base increased significantly in the past year.



In 2012 we outlined our vision for how we will continue to advance our capabilities in population health, building on theHealthe Intentplatform and other foundational solutions that are already in place. Fundamental to the design of this platform is an evolving operating system specifically designed to identify the person, predict where interventions will be effective,









attribute the individual to accountable providers and guide them to take appropriate action.  We believe these elements will be critical to our clients in an accountable care environment, as providers will need the ability to predict and prevent incidents such as readmissions and proactively monitor patients with chronic conditions so complications can be prevented.



Our name for the clinical programming language that will drive our operating system for population health isSynapse.Synapseis a purpose built, clinical programming language that creates agents within theHealthe Intentplatform to trigger and coordinate health care programs across a population.  Very much like the clinical definition ofSynapse, the language supports the signaling of an event, then coordinates that action across the platform based on localized requirements.  We think this is a fundamental differentiator as the level of sophistication to manage the health of a population ultimately requires both personalization to the individual and adapting to the local provider network.  This must be much more than a set of workflow applications with independent configuration options.  We believe the ability to create these sophisticated commands in a natural language familiar to clinicians will create an ecosystem of discovery and innovation beyond the four walls of Cerner.



We are also working closely with clients to advance our population health capabilities.  We announced a partnership in 2012 with Advocate Health Care, a leader in population health management, which will help us advance our population health initiatives and position us for significant opportunities as we deploy these capabilities across our client base.  Early progress from these efforts has included joint development of sophisticated predictive models, including a predictive agent for readmissions that demonstrated a more than 20 percent improvement in predictive power as compared to the majority of the existing evidence based models in use today.



Another initiative that we believe will demonstrate the power of coordinated population health management is our partnership with Nevada, Missouri, which was announced in July 2012.  We are collaborating with the city to build a new model of health and care with a goal of significantly improving health status and outcomes in Nevada.  In addition to deploying Cerner solutions at Nevada Regional Medical Center, the project is focused on creating a culture of health in the community through education, incentives, infrastructure and partnerships with stakeholders such as the Nevada school district, local employers and community organizations.  In addition, all residents will have access to their health information regardless of where they are or which provider they see.  We believe a project of this scope has never been done before.  Our goal is to see how quickly we can impact the cost, accessibility and quality of health and care and to create a replicable and sustainable model for other communities.



In summary, we believe we are uniquely positioned to build on our existing investments and create the most comprehensive platform for facilitating population health.  We expect this platform to create significant opportunities for Cerner as health care continues to evolve towards a model that incents keeping people healthy.



Software Development

We commit significant resources to developing new health information system solutions and services. As of the end of2012, approximately 3,200 associates were engaged in research and development activities. Total expenditures for the development and enhancement of our software solutions were approximately$319.8 million,$290.6 millionand$284.8 millionduring the2012,2011and2010fiscal years, respectively. These figures include both capitalized and non-capitalized portions and exclude amounts amortized for financial reporting purposes.



As discussed above, continued investment in research and development remains a core element of our strategy. This will include ongoing enhancement of our core solutions and development of new solutions and services.



Sales and Marketing

The markets for Cerner HCIT solutions, health care devices and services include integrated delivery networks, physician groups and networks, managed care organizations, hospitals, medical centers, free-standing reference laboratories, home health agencies, blood banks, imaging centers, pharmacies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, employers, governments and public health organizations. The majority of our sales are sales of clinical solutions and services to hospital and health systems, but theCerner Millenniumarchitecture is highly scalable and organizations ranging from several physician practices, to community hospitals, to complex integrated delivery networks, to local, regional and national government agencies use ourCerner Millenniumsolutions and services.



As previously discussed, we have focused on reducing the total cost of ownership of our systems, which allows us to be price competitive across the full size and organizational structure range of health care providers. Sales to large health systems typically take approximately nine to 18 months, while the sales cycle is often shorter when selling to smaller hospitals and physician practices. In some instances, the HITECH provisions of ARRA have shortened the sales process due to the timeline required for hospitals to qualify for stimulus incentives.











Our executive marketing management is located at our Innovation Campus in Kansas City, Missouri, while our client representatives are deployed across the United States and globally. In addition to the United States, through our subsidiaries, we have sales associates and/or offices giving us a presence in more than 25 countries.



We support our sales force with technical personnel who perform demonstrations of Cerner solutions and services and assist clients in determining the proper hardware and software configurations. Our primary direct marketing strategy is to generate sales contacts from our existing client base and through presentations at industry seminars and tradeshows. We market the PowerWorks®solutions, offered on a subscription basis, directly to the physician practice market using telemarketing, channel partners and through existing acute care clients that are looking to extend Cerner solutions to affiliated physicians. We attend a number of major tradeshows each year and sponsor executive user conferences, which feature industry experts who address the HCIT needs of large health care organizations.



Client Services

Substantially all of Cerner’s HCIT software solutions clients enter into software support agreements with us for maintenance and support of their Cerner systems. In addition to immediate software support in the event of problems, these agreements allow clients to access new releases of the Cerner solutions covered by support agreements. Each client has 24-hour access to the client support team located at our world headquarters in North Kansas City, Missouri and our global support organizations in England and Ireland.



Most clients who buy hardware through Cerner also enter into hardware maintenance agreements with us. These arrangements normally provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services. In the majority of cases, we utilize subcontractors to meet our hardware maintenance obligations. We also offer a set of managed services that include remote hosting, operational management services and disaster recovery.



Backlog

At the end of2012, we had a contract backlog of $6.5 billion as compared to $5.4 billion at the end of2011. Such backlog represents system sales and services from signed contracts that have not yet been recognized as revenue. At the end of2012, we had$18.2 millionof contracts receivable compared to$81.8 millionat the end of2011, which represents revenues recognized but not yet billable under the terms of the contract. At the end of2012, we had a software support and maintenance backlog of $738.2 million as compared to $705.7 million at the end of2011. Such backlog represents contracted software support and hardware maintenance services for a period of 12 months. We estimate that approximately 29 percent of the aggregate backlog at the end of2012of $7.3 billion will be recognized as revenue during2013.



Competition

The market for HCIT solutions, devices and services is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. Our principal competitors in the health care solutions and services market include, but are not limited to: Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., Computer Programs and Systems, Inc. (CPSI), Epic Systems Corporation (Epic), GE Healthcare Technologies (GE), Healthcare Management Systems, Inc. (HMS), Healthland, Inc., Computer Sciences Corporation (iSoft), Keane, Inc., McKesson Corporation (McKesson), Medical Information Technology, Inc. (Meditech), Siemens Medical Solutions Health Services Corporation (Siemens), and Quadramed Corporation (Quadramed), each of which offers a suite of software solutions that compete with many of our software solutions and services.



Other competitors focus on only a portion of the market that we address. For example, competitors, without limitation, such as Accenture plc, Affiliated Computer Services (ACS), Cap Gemini S. A., Computer Task Group, Inc. (CTGHS), Dell, Inc. (Dell), Deloitte Consulting LLP, Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM Corporation and Science Applicaitons International Corporation (formerly maxIT Healthcare LLC) offer HCIT services that compete directly with some of our service offerings. AmazingCharts.com, Inc., Athenahealth, Inc., eClinicalWorks LLC, e-MDs, Inc., Greenway Medical Technologies, MED3000, Inc., NexGen Healthcare, Inc., Quality Systems, Inc., Sevocity (a division of Conceptual MindWorks, Inc.) and Vitera Healthcare Solutions (formerly Sage Software Healthcare LLC) offer solutions to the physician practice market but do not currently have a significant presence in the health systems and independent hospital market.



Cerner partners with third parties as a reseller of devices and markets its own competing proprietary health care devices. We view our principal competitors in the health care device market to include, without limitation: API Healthcare, CapsuleTech, Inc., CareFusion Corporation, GE, iSirona, LLC, McKesson and Omnicell, Inc. We view our principal competitors in the health care revenue cycle transactions market to include, without limitation: Accretive Health, Inc., Allscripts, Dell, Emdeon Corporation, Epic, GE, McKesson, MedAssets, Inc., Meditech, Optum, Inc., Quadramed, Siemens, SSI Group, Inc. and 3M Company with almost all of these competitors being substantially larger or having more experience and market share than









us in their respective markets.



In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start-up companies, managed care companies and others specializing in the health care industry may offer competitive software solutions, devices or services. The pace of change in the HCIT market is rapid and there are frequent new software solutions, devices or services introductions, enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market include the breadth and quality of solution and service offerings, the stability of the solution provider, the features and capabilities of the information systems and devices, the ongoing support for the systems and devices and the potential for enhancements and future compatible software solutions and devices.



Number of Employees (Associates)

At the end of2012, we employed approximately 11,900 associates worldwide.



Operating Segments

Information about our operating segments, which are geographically based, may be found in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and in Note (18) to the consolidated financial statements.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names, ages, positions and certain other information regarding the Company’s executive officers as of February 1, 2013. Officers are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



NameAgePositionsNeal L. Patterson63Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentClifford W. Illig62Vice Chairman of the Board of DirectorsMarc G. Naughton57Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMichael R. Nill48Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerRandy D. Sims52Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and SecretaryJeffrey A. Townsend49Executive Vice President and Chief of StaffJulia M. Wilson50Senior Vice President and Chief People OfficerZane M. Burke47Executive Vice President - Client Organization



Neal L. Patterson, co-founder of the Company, has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for more than five years. Mr. Patterson has served as President of the Company since July 2010, which position he also held from March of 1999 until August of 1999.



Clifford W. Illig, co-founder of the Company, has been a Director of the Company for more than five years. He previously served as Chief Operating Officer of the Company until October 1998 and as President of the Company until March of 1999. Mr. Illig was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors in March of 1999.



Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager of Taxes. In November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2002 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2010.



Michael R. Nill joined the Company in November 1996. Since that time he has held several positions in the Technology, Intellectual Property and CernerWorks Client Hosting Organizations. He was promoted to Vice President in January 2000, promoted to Senior Vice President in April 2006 and promoted to Executive Vice President and named Chief Engineering Officer in February 2009. Mr. Nill was appointed Chief Operating Officer in May 2011.



Randy D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2011. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims worked at Farmland Industries, Inc. for three years where he last served as Associate General Counsel. Prior to Farmland, Mr. Sims was in-house legal counsel at The Marley Company for seven years, holding the position of Assistant General Counsel when he left to join Farmland.











Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985. Since that time he has held several positions in the Intellectual Property Organization and was promoted to Vice President in February 1997. He was appointed Chief Engineering Officer in March 1998, promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2001, named Chief of Staff in July 2003 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2005.



Julia M. Wilson joined the Company in November 1995. Since that time, she has held several positions in the Functional Group Organization. She was promoted to Vice President and Chief People Officer in August 2003 and to Senior Vice President in March 2007.



Zane M. Burke joined the Company in September 1996. Since that time, he has held a variety of client-facing sales, implementation and support roles, including Corporate Controller and Vice President of Finance. He was promoted to President of the Company’s West region in 2002 and Senior Vice President of National Alignment in 2006. He was further promoted to Executive Vice President - Client Organization in July 2011.





