Item 1. Business



Overview

Cerner Corporation started doing business in 1980, and it was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1986. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this report to “Cerner,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean Cerner Corporation and its subsidiaries.



Our corporate world headquarters is located in a Company-owned office park in North Kansas City, Missouri, with our principal place of business located at 2800 Rockcreek Parkway, North Kansas City, Missouri 64117. Our telephone number is 816.201.1024. Our Web site, which we use to communicate important business information, can be accessed at: www.cerner.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on or through this Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Cerner is a leading supplier of health care information technology (HCIT).  Our mission is to contribute to the improvement of health care delivery and the health of communities.  We offer a wide range of intelligent solutions and services that support the clinical, financial and operational needs of organizations of all sizes.  We have systems in more than 18,000 facilities worldwide, including hospitals, physician practices, laboratories, ambulatory centers, behavioral health centers, cardiac facilities, radiology clinics, surgery centers, extended care facilities, retail pharmacies, and employer sites.



Cerner solutions are offered on the unified Cerner Millennium®architecture and on theHealtheIntent™cloud-based platform.  Cerner Millennium is a person-centric computing framework, which includes integrated clinical, financial and management information systems. This architecture allows providers to securely access an individual’s electronic health record (EHR) at the point of care, and it organizes and proactively delivers information to meet the specific needs of physicians, nurses, laboratory technicians, pharmacists, front- and back-office professionals and consumers.  OurHealtheIntentplatform is a cloud-based platform that enables a new generation of solutions to leverage the increasing amount of data being captured as the health care industry is digitized. On theHealtheIntentplatform, we offer EHR-agnostic solutions based on sophisticated, statistical algorithms that are intended to help providers predict and improve outcomes, control costs, improve quality, and manage the health of the populations they serve.



We offer a broad range of services, including implementation and training, remote hosting, operational management services, revenue cycle services, support and maintenance, health care data analysis, clinical process optimization, transaction processing, employer health centers, employee wellness programs and third party administrator (TPA) services for employer-based health plans.



In addition to software and services, we offer a wide range of complementary hardware and devices, both directly from Cerner and as a reseller for third parties.









The following table presents our consolidated revenues by major solutions and services and by segment, as a percentage of total revenues:



For the Years Ended201420132012Revenues by Solutions & ServicesSystem sales28%29%34%Support and maintenance21%23%23%Services48%46%41%Reimbursed travel3%2%2%100%100%100%Revenues by SegmentDomestic89%88%88%Global11%12%12%100%100%100%



Health Care and Health Care IT Industry

There are several trends in health care that we believe create a favorable environment for Cerner. One is the unsustainable rate of growth in health care spending. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) estimates United States health care spending in 2014 at $3.1 trillion, or 17.6 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and projects it to be 19.3 percent of GDP by 2023. We believe health care IT is one of few remaining levers that can change this trajectory.  Further, health care providers continue to operate in an environment that includes what we call ‘raining measures and mandates’.  Examples of these include:



•Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) provisions within the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) that offer incentives for health care organizations to modernize operations through “Meaningful Use” of HCIT and will begin to penalize for non-compliance in coming years;

•Value-Based Purchasing programs that link reimbursement to quality and outcomes;

•Increasing requirements to report quality metrics; and

•Readmission reduction programs that penalize hospitals for unnecessary readmissions.



Collectively, these measures and mandates are driving providers to focus on delivering higher quality care at a lower cost, and we believe HCIT is a key lever that can help providers accomplish this. We also believe all of these shifts are leading to an environment in which health care providers will become accountable for proactively managing the health of the populations they serve, and this will require ongoing investment in sophisticated information technology solutions that will enable them to predict when intervention is needed so they can improve outcomes and lower the cost of providing care.



As providers position themselves for these shifts, there has been an increase in industry consolidation, with health systems acquiring hospitals, physician practices, and other venues to control more of the care continuum and achieve economies of scale.  We believe this is a positive trend for Cerner as we have relationships with the majority of the largest health systems responsible for most of the acquisition activity, creating an opportunity to offer our solutions and services to the acquired facilities.



The increasingly complex and more clinical outcomes-based reimbursement environment is also contributing to a heightened demand for revenue cycle solutions and a desire for these solutions to be closely aligned with clinical solutions.  We believe this trend is positive for Cerner because our revenue cycle solutions are integrated with our clinical solutions, creating a clinically driven revenue cycle solution that has had significant adoption in recent years.



We have also seen a shift in the United States marketplace towards a preference for a single platform across inpatient and ambulatory settings. The number of physicians employed by hospitals has increased significantly as hospitals have acquired physician groups in order to ensure a consistent stream of referrals, and health systems are recognizing the benefit of having a single patient record at the hospital and the physician office. We are benefiting from this trend due to our unifiedCerner Millenniumplatform that spans multiple venues and due to significant enhancements we have made to our physician solutions in recent years.











Outside the United States, we believe Cerner’s growth opportunities are good as most countries are also dealing with health care expenditures growing faster than their economies, which is leading to a focus on controlling costs while also improving quality of care.



Cerner Vision and Growth Strategy

For over three decades, Cerner has been continuously building intelligent solutions for the health care industry. Together with our clients, we are creating a future where the health care system works to improve the well-being of individuals and communities. Our vision has always guided our large investments in research and development (R&D), which have created strong levels of organic growth throughout our history.  Our proven ability to innovate has led to what we believe to be industry-leading solution and device architectures and an unmatched breadth and depth of solutions and services.  The strength of our solutions and services has led to our ability to gain market share in recent years, which has contributed to our growth.  We believe we are positioned to continue gaining share in coming years as regulatory requirements and industry shifts continue to pressure health care providers to improve quality while lowering costs, which will require having more sophisticated information technology than many of our competitors provide.



In addition to growth by gaining market share, we have a significant opportunity to grow revenues by expanding our solution footprint with existing clients. There is opportunity to expand penetration of our core solutions, such as EHRs and computerized physician order entry, and increase penetration of our broad range of complementary solutions that can be offered into our existing client base. Examples include women’s health, anesthesiology, imaging, clinical process optimization, critical care, health care devices, device connectivity, emergency department, revenue cycle and surgery.



We also have an opportunity to grow by expanding penetration of services we offer that are targeted at capturing a larger percentage of our clients’ existing IT spending. These services leverage our proven operational capabilities and the success of ourCernerWorksSMmanaged services business, where we have demonstrated the ability to improve our clients’ service levels at a cost that is at or below amounts they were previously spending. One of these services isCerner ITWorksSM, a suite of solutions and services that improve the ability of hospital IT departments to meet their organization’s needs while also creating a closer alignment between Cerner and our clients. A second example isCerner RevWorksSM, which includes solutions and services to help health care organizations improve their revenue cycle functions.



We have made progress over the past several years at reducing the total cost of our solutions, which expands our end market opportunities by allowing us to offer lower-cost, higher-value solutions and services to smaller community hospitals, critical access hospitals and physician practices. For example, our CommunityWorksTMoffering leverages a shared instance of theCerner Millenniumplatform across multiple clients, which decreases the total cost for these clients.



We also expect to drive growth over the course of the next decade through initiatives outside the core HCIT market. For example, we offer clinic, pharmacy, wellness and third-party administrator services directly to employers. These offerings have been shaped by what we have learned from changes we have implemented at Cerner. We have removed our third-party administrator and become self-administered, launched an on-site clinic and pharmacy, incorporated biometric measurements for our population, realigned the economic incentives for associates in our health plan, and implemented a data-driven wellness management program. These changes have had a positive impact on the health of our associates while also reducing our health care costs.



As discussed below, another opportunity for future growth, and a significant area of investment for Cerner, is leveraging the vast amounts of data being created as the health care industry is digitized and using this data to help providers manage the health of populations.



Population Health

We believe Population Health Management is more than an industry buzzword or the next big fad.  It is the shift from solely automating health systems to managing a person’s health. Getting there requires complete, accurate patient data and meaningfully using that data to engage individuals, exchange information between providers and ultimately drive better outcomes. This shift will shape the future of health care and enable a system driven by accountability, transparency and value.











Cerner's approach to population health is to enable organizations to:



•KNOW what is happening and predict what will happen within their population through solutions for data exchange, longitudinal record, enterprise data warehouse, analytics and quality and regulatory reporting;

•ENGAGE providers and patients in health and care delivery through personal health portals and solutions for care management, home care, long-term care, and retail pharmacy; and

•MANAGE health and improve care with capacity and workforce management, clinical research, predictive modeling, health registries, and contract and network management.



These solutions are enabled by Cerner’sHealtheIntentplatform, which is a multi-purpose, programmable platform designed to scale at a population level while facilitating health and care at a person and provider level.  This cloud-based platform enables organizations to aggregate, transform and reconcile data across the continuum of care, and helps improve outcomes and lower costs.



HealtheIntentis scalable, secure and can be accessed anywhere, anytime. It is able to receive data from any EHR, existing HCIT system and other data sources, such as pharmacy benefits managers or insurance claims.HealtheIntentcollects data from multiple, disparate sources in near real-time, providing clarity to millions of data points in an actionable and programmable workflow. It enables organizations to identify, score and predict the risks of individual patients, allowing them to match the right care programs to the right individuals.  The EHR-agnostic nature of ourHealtheIntentplatform allows us to offer our solutions to the entire marketplace, not just existing Cerner clients.



We are investing heavily in expanding theHealtheIntentplatform and our overall capabilities to support population health.  One of the ways we are expanding our capabilities is working closely with clients that are early movers at taking accountability for keeping the populations they serve healthy.  A key partner with whom we are working is Advocate Health Care ("Advocate").  One of the first outcomes of this collaboration was the joint development in 2012 of a predictive agent for readmissions that has demonstrated significant improvement in predictive power as compared to the majority of existing models.  Our relationship expanded in early 2013 to further advance clinical integration and population health management capabilities across the continuum of care for the more than 500,000 lives for which they have gone at risk.



In September 2013, we releasedHealtheRegistries™, which provides the ability to stratify patient populations based on risk, conditions, and attributed physicians.  Advocate went live withHealtheRegistriesin January 2014 and we have since sold the solution to multiple clients.  In 2014, we continued to advance our population health capabilities through our work with Advocate, including development of care management solutions that we expect to release in 2015 and a transition of care model that suggests 30 percent of the population could be sent to a more optimal venue and achieve better outcomes at a lower cost.



In summary, we believe our comprehensive architectural approach to population health is differentiated in the marketplace.  We expect population health to be a large contributor to our long-term growth as health care continues to evolve towards a model that incents keeping people healthy.



Siemens Health Services Acquisition

On February 2, 2015, we acquired substantially all of the assets, and assumed certain liabilities of Siemens AG's health information technology business unit, Siemens Health Services. We believe our acquisition of Siemens Health Services enhances our organic growth opportunities discussed above.  The acquisition provides a larger base into which we can sell our broad range of solutions and services, with opportunities ranging from selling Cerner’s EHR into the Siemens Health Services client base, to selling EHR-agnostic solutions such as population health, to selling services such asRevWorksandITWorks.  The acquisition also augments our non-U.S. growth opportunities, increases our ability to continue investing in R&D, and adds thousands of highly-skilled associates that will enhance Cerner’s capabilities.



Software Development

We commit significant resources to developing new health information system solutions and services. As of the end of2014, approximately 4,300 associates were engaged in research and development activities. Total expenditures for the development and enhancement of our software solutions were approximately$467.2 million,$418.7 millionand$319.8 millionduring the2014,2013and2012fiscal years, respectively. These figures include both capitalized and non-capitalized portions and exclude amounts amortized for financial reporting purposes.



As discussed above, continued investment in R&D remains a core element of our strategy. This will include ongoing enhancement of our core solutions and development of new solutions and services.











Sales and Marketing

The markets for Cerner HCIT solutions, health care devices and services include integrated delivery networks, physician groups and networks, managed care organizations, hospitals, medical centers, free-standing reference laboratories, home health agencies, blood banks, imaging centers, pharmacies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, employers, governments and public health organizations. The majority of our sales are sales of clinical and revenue cycle solutions and services to hospitals and health systems, but our solutions and services are highly scalable and sold to organizations ranging from physician practices, to community hospitals, to complex integrated delivery networks, to local, regional and national government agencies.



Sales to large health systems typically take approximately nine to 18 months, while the sales cycle is often shorter when selling to smaller hospitals and physician practices. In some instances, the HITECH provisions of ARRA have shortened the sales process due to the timeline required for hospitals to qualify for stimulus incentives.



Our executive marketing management is located at our Innovation Campus in Kansas City, Missouri, while our client representatives are deployed across the United States and globally. In addition to the United States, through our subsidiaries, we have sales associates and/or offices giving us a presence in more than 25 countries.



We support our sales force with technical personnel who perform demonstrations of Cerner solutions and services and assist clients in determining the proper hardware and software configurations. Our primary direct marketing strategy is to generate sales contacts from our existing client base and through presentations at industry seminars and tradeshows. We market the PowerWorks®solutions, offered on a subscription basis, directly to the physician practice market using lead generation activities and through existing acute care clients that are looking to extend Cerner solutions to affiliated physicians. We attend a number of major tradeshows each year and sponsor executive user conferences, which feature industry experts who address the HCIT needs of large health care organizations.



Client Services

Substantially all of Cerner’s clients that buy software solutions also enter into software support agreements with us for maintenance and support of their Cerner systems.  In addition to immediate software support in the event of problems, these agreements allow clients to access new releases of the Cerner solutions covered by support agreements.  Each client has 24-hour access to the client support team located at our world headquarters in North Kansas City, Missouri, our Continuous Campus in Kansas City, Kansas and our global support organizations in England and Ireland.



Most clients who buy hardware through Cerner also enter into hardware maintenance agreements with us. These arrangements normally provide for a fixed monthly fee for specified services.  In the majority of cases, we utilize subcontractors to meet our hardware maintenance obligations. We also offer a set of managed services that include remote hosting, operational management services and disaster recovery.



Backlog

At the end of2014, we had a revenue backlog of $10.6 billion, which compares to $8.9 billion at the end of2013. Such backlog represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized. We estimate that approximately 27 percent of the backlog at the end of2014will be recognized as revenue during2015.



Competition

The market for HCIT solutions, devices and services is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. Our principal competitors in the health care solutions and services market include, but are not limited to: Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., Computer Programs and Systems, Inc. (CPSI), Epic Systems Corporation, GE Healthcare Technologies, Healthland, Inc., McKesson Corporation, MEDHOST, Inc. and Medical Information Technology, Inc., each of which offers a suite of software solutions that compete with many of our software solutions and services.



Other competitors focus on only a portion of the market that we address. For example, such competitors include, without limitation, Clinovations, Inc., Dell, Inc. (Dell), Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte), Encore Health Resources, LLC,  IBM Corporation (IBM), Impact Advisors, LLC and Xerox Corporation Ltd., which offer HCIT services that compete directly with some of our service offerings. AmazingCharts.com, Inc., Athenahealth, Inc., eClinicalWorks LLC, e-MDs, Inc., Netsmart Technologies, Practice Fusion, Inc., Quality Systems, Inc., SRSsoft and Vitera Healthcare Solutions offer solutions to the physician practice market or niche market, but do not currently have a significant presence in the broader health systems and independent hospital market.











Cerner partners with third parties as a reseller of devices and markets its own competing proprietary health care devices. We view our principal competitors in the health care device market to include, without limitation: Aesynt Inc., CapsuleTech, Inc., CareFusion Corporation, Connexall Company, Ltd., Nanthealth, LLC, Omnicell, Inc., PerfectServe, Inc., Siemens AG and Vocera Communication, Inc. We view our principal competitors in the health care revenue cycle market to include, without limitation: Accretive Health, Inc., Conifer Health Solutions, Dell, Deloitte, Emdeon Corporation, MedAssets, Inc., Optum, Inc. (Optum), Quadramed Corporation, SSI Group, Inc. and 3M Company. We view our competitors in the population health market to range from small niche competitors, to large health insurance companies including, without limitation: Aetna Inc., Evolent Health, LLC, Explorys, Inc., IBM, MedeAnalytics, Inc., NetOrange, Inc., Optum, Phytel, Inc., The Advisory Board Company, and WellCentive, Inc.  Some of these competitors are larger or have more experience in their respective markets.



In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start-up companies, managed care companies, healthcare insurance companies, accountable care organizations and others specializing in the health care industry may offer competitive software solutions, devices or services. The pace of change in the HCIT market is rapid and there are frequent new software solutions, devices or services introductions, enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market include the breadth and quality of solution and service offerings, the stability of the solution provider, the features and capabilities of the information systems and devices, the ongoing support for the systems and devices and the potential for enhancements and future compatible software solutions and devices.



Number of Employees (Associates)

At the end of2014, we employed approximately 15,800 associates worldwide.



Operating Segments

Information about our operating segments, which are geographically based, may be found in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below and in Note (19) to the consolidated financial statements.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names, ages, positions and certain other information regarding the Company’s executive officers as of February 6, 2015. Officers are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



NameAgePositionsNeal L. Patterson65Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive OfficerClifford W. Illig64Vice Chairman of the Board of DirectorsZane M. Burke49PresidentMarc G. Naughton59Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMichael R. Nill50Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerRandy D. Sims54Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and SecretaryJeffrey A. Townsend51Executive Vice President and Chief of StaffJulia M. Wilson52Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer



Neal L. Patterson, co-founder of the Company, has been Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for more than five years. Mr. Patterson served as President of the Company from July 2010 to September 2013, which position he also held from March of 1999 until August of 1999.



Clifford W. Illig, co-founder of the Company, has been a Director of the Company for more than five years. He previously served as Chief Operating Officer of the Company until October 1998 and as President of the Company until March of 1999. Mr. Illig was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors in March of 1999.



Zane M. Burke joined the Company in September 1996. Since that time, he has held a variety of client-facing sales, implementation and support roles, including Corporate Controller and Vice President of Finance. He was promoted to President of the Company’s West region in 2002 and Senior Vice President of National Alignment in 2006. He was further promoted to Executive Vice President - Client Organization in July 2011 and to President of the Company in September 2013.











Marc G. Naughton joined the Company in November 1992 as Manager of Taxes. In November 1995 he was named Chief Financial Officer and in February 1996 he was promoted to Vice President. He was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2002 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2010.



Michael R. Nill joined the Company in November 1996. Since that time he has held several positions in the Technology, Intellectual Property and CernerWorks Client Hosting Organizations. He was promoted to Vice President in January 2000, promoted to Senior Vice President in April 2006 and promoted to Executive Vice President and named Chief Engineering Officer in February 2009. Mr. Nill was appointed Chief Operating Officer in May 2011.



Randy D. Sims joined the Company in March 1997 as Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and was promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2011. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sims worked at Farmland Industries, Inc. for three years where he last served as Associate General Counsel. Prior to Farmland, Mr. Sims was in-house legal counsel at The Marley Company for seven years, holding the position of Assistant General Counsel when he left to join Farmland.



Jeffrey A. Townsend joined the Company in June 1985. Since that time he has held several positions in the Intellectual Property Organization and was promoted to Vice President in February 1997. He was appointed Chief Engineering Officer in March 1998, promoted to Senior Vice President in March 2001, named Chief of Staff in July 2003 and promoted to Executive Vice President in March 2005.



Julia M. Wilson first joined the Company in July 1990. Since that time, she has held several positions in the Functional Group Organization. She was promoted to Vice President and Chief People Officer in August 2003, to Senior Vice President in March 2007 and to Executive Vice President in March 2013.















