Item 1A.Risk Factors.

Volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, may significantly affect our
results of operations and may put pressure on our financial results.The capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and disruption. Although global market conditions have shown some stabilization and improvement, the decline in
global market conditions has in the past resulted in significant decreases in our assets under management, revenues and income, and future declines may negatively impact our performance. Such declines have had and may in the future have an adverse
impact on our results of operations. Even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our business, strategies or operations, and we may be
subject to additional constraints or costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment.

The amount and mix of our assets under management are subject to significant fluctuations. Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our assets under management may be attributable in part to market
conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. We derive the majority of our operating revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services.
The level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of assets under management. Any decrease in the value or amount of our assets under management because of market volatility or other factors negatively impacts our revenues and income.
We are subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes in the global financial and equity markets. Individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial, or other







We are subject to
extensive and complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations.Our investment management and related services business and our banking/finance business are subject to extensive and complex, overlapping
and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations in the countries in which we operate, including, among others, securities, banking, accounting and tax laws and regulations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Reform Act”). The Reform Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, is expected to impose additional restrictions and limitations on us and will
likely result in increased scrutiny and oversight of our financial services and products. Due to the complexity and broad scope of the Reform Act and time required for regulatory implementation, we are not able to predict at this time the specific
requirements that will be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us pursuant to the Reform Act, or the impact that any changes in regulation would have on our business. We will continue to review and evaluate the Reform Act and the
extent of its impact on our business as the various rules and regulations required for implementation are adopted.

Financial
reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are often comprehensive and complex. While management has focused attention and resources on our compliance policies, procedures and
practices, non-compliance with applicable laws or rules or regulations, conflicts of interest requirements or fiduciary principles, or our inability to keep up with, or adapt to, an ever changing, complex regulatory environment could result in
sanctions against us, including fines and censures, injunctive relief, suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market or the revocation of licenses, any of which could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues, and
earnings.









We are subject to U.S.
federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including those rules and regulations promulgated by, among others, the
SEC, FINRA and the NYSE. To the extent operations or trading in our securities take place outside the United States, we are subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulations and regulators, such as the U.K. Financial Services Authority, and U.S.
regulations and regulators such as the Department of Justice and the SEC with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC under the Advisers Act and many of our funds are registered
with the SEC under the Investment Company Act, both of which impose numerous obligations, as well as detailed operational requirements, on our subsidiaries which are investment advisers to registered investment companies. Our subsidiaries must
comply with a myriad of complex and changing U.S. and/or non-U.S. rules and regulations, some of which may conflict, as well as complex tax regimes. Additionally, as we expand our operations, sometimes rapidly, into non-U.S. jurisdictions, the rules
and regulations of these non-U.S. jurisdictions become applicable, sometimes with short compliance deadlines, and add further regulatory complexity to our ongoing compliance operations.

Regulatory and legislative actions and reforms have made the regulatory environment in which we operate more costly and future actions
and reforms could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and future financial results.Since 2001, the federal securities laws have been augmented substantially and made significantly
more complex by, among other measures, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 and the Reform Act. Moreover, the adoption of new laws or regulations and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations
have directly affected, and may continue to affect, our business. With new laws and changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time we must dedicate to, and related costs we must incur in, meeting the
regulatory complexities of our business have increased. In







Changes in tax
laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and
various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in
order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or
financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as recent proposals by the Obama administration, if enacted, could
increase the amount of taxes we are required to pay and have a significant adverse impact on our future results of operations and profitability.

Any significant limitation or failure of our software applications, technology or other systems that are critical to our operations could constrain our operations.We are highly dependent upon the
use of various proprietary and third-party software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. We use our technology to, among other things, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide
reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. Any inaccuracies, delays, or systems failures in these and other processes could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. Although we take protective measures,
including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an authorized
employee or vendor inadvertently causing us to release confidential information, which could materially damage our operations or cause the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information. Moreover, loss of confidential customer
identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.

Further, although we take precautions to password protect our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen,
misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. Most of the software applications that we use in our business are
licensed from, and supported, upgraded and maintained by, third-party vendors. A suspension or termination of certain of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause temporary system delays or interruption. In
addition, we manage and operate our U.S. data centers, and our failure to properly operate them could have an







adverse impact on our business. Although we have in place certain disaster recovery plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts
of war, and third-party failures. Technology is subject to rapid change and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced Internet platforms for their products, which could affect our business. Potential system failures or
breaches, or advancements in technology, and the cost necessary to address them, could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could
negatively impact our revenues and income.

Our investment management business operations are complex and a failure to
properly perform operational tasks or the misrepresentation of our products and services could have an adverse effect on our revenues and income.

We face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting
operations and growing our business in numerous countries.







jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. In addition, from time to time we enter into international joint ventures in which we
may not have control. These investments in joint ventures may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business
decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture.

We depend on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services.

Strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies with competing offerings and products could limit or reduce sales of
our products, potentially resulting in a decline in our market share, revenues and net income.

Changes in the third-party distribution and
sales channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth.We derive nearly all of our fund sales through third-party broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers. Increasing competition for these distribution
channels and regulatory initiatives have caused our distribution costs to rise and could cause further increases in the future or could







otherwise negatively impact the distribution of our products. Higher distribution costs lower our net revenues and earnings. Additionally, consolidations in the broker/dealer industry could
adversely impact our revenues and earnings. Moreover, if several of the major financial advisers who distribute our products were to cease operations or limit or otherwise end the distribution of our products, it could have a significant adverse
impact on our revenues and earnings. There is no assurance we will continue to have access to the third-party broker/dealers and similar investment advisers that currently distribute our products, or continue to have the opportunity to offer all or
some of our existing products through them. A failure to maintain strong business relationships with the major investment advisers who currently distribute our products may also impair our distribution and sales operations. Because we use
broker/dealers and other similar investment advisers to sell our products, we do not control the ultimate investment recommendations given to clients. Any inability to access and successfully sell our products to clients through third-party
distribution channels could have a negative effect on our level of assets under management, related revenues and overall business and financial condition.

Our increasing focus on international markets as a source of investments and sales of investment products subjects us to increased exchange rate and other risks in connection with earnings and income
generated overseas.

Poor investment performance
of our products could affect our sales or reduce the level of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting our revenues and income.Our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client
services, is critical to the success of our investment management and related services business. Strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our investment products. Poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or
competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales of investment products we manage and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of assets under management and reducing the management fees we earn. We
cannot assure you that past or present investment performance in the investment products we manage will be indicative of future performance. Any poor investment performance may negatively impact our revenues and income.

We could suffer losses in earnings or revenue if our reputation is harmed.Our reputation is important to the success of our
business. We believe that our Franklin Templeton Investments brand has been, and continues to be, well received both in our industry and with our clients, reflecting the fact that our brand, like our business, is based in part on trust and
confidence. If our reputation is harmed, existing clients may







reduce amounts held in, or withdraw entirely from, funds that we advise or funds may terminate their management agreements with us, which could reduce the amount of assets under management and
cause us to suffer a corresponding loss in earnings or revenue. Moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to continue to attract new ones with similar qualifications, motivations, or skills. If we fail
to address, or appear to fail to address, successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any reputational harm, we may be unsuccessful in repairing any existing harm to our reputation and our future business prospects would likely be affected.

Our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation.The level of our expenses is subject to fluctuation and may increase for the following or other reasons: changes in the level and scope of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions; variations in the level of total compensation
expense due to, among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and competitive factors; changes in expenses and capital costs, including costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services
infrastructure or to cover uninsured losses and an increase in insurance expenses including through the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability.

Our ability to successfully integrate widely varied business lines can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations.Our continued success in effectively managing and growing our
business depends on our ability to integrate the varied accounting, financial, information, and operational systems of our various businesses on a global basis. Moreover, adapting or developing our existing technology systems to meet our internal
needs, as well as client needs, industry demands and new regulatory requirements, is also critical for our business. The constant introduction of new technologies presents new challenges to us. We have an ongoing need to continually upgrade and
improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting, and trading systems. Further, we also must be proactive and prepared to implement technology systems when growth opportunities present themselves, whether
as a result of a business acquisition or rapidly increasing business activities in particular markets or regions. These needs could present operational issues or require, from time to time, significant capital spending. It also may require us to
reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations.

Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational
harm, or legal liability.









Certain of the
portfolios we manage, including our emerging market portfolios, are vulnerable to significant market-specific political, economic, or other risks, any of which may negatively impact our revenues and income.Our emerging market portfolios and
revenues derived from managing these portfolios are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation,
nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. International trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more
volatile than those in the U.S.

Our revenues, earnings, and income could be adversely affected if the terms of our
management agreements are significantly altered or these agreements are terminated by the funds and other sponsored investment products we advise.Our revenues are dependent on fees earned under investment management and related services
agreements that we have with the funds and other sponsored investment products we advise. These revenues could be adversely affected if these agreements are altered significantly or terminated. The decline in revenue that might result from
alteration or termination of our investment management services agreements could have a material adverse impact on our earnings or income.

Regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations, civil litigation relating to previously-settled regulatory and governmental investigations, and the legal risks associated with our
business, could adversely impact our assets under management, increase costs and negatively impact our profitability and/or our future financial results.

Our ability to meet cash needs depends upon certain factors, including the market value
of our assets, operating cash flows and our perceived creditworthiness.Our ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon factors such as the market value of our assets, our operating cash flows and our creditworthiness as perceived by
lenders. If we are unable to obtain funds and financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans. Further, our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. A reduction in our long- or
short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. Volatility in the global financing markets may also impact our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so, and have an
adverse affect on investors’ willingness to purchase our securities, interest rates, credit spreads and the valuation levels of







equity markets. If we are unable to obtain funds and financing, or access the capital markets in a timely manner, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plans, and
our business could be adversely impacted.

Diverse and strong competition limits the interest rates that we can charge on
consumer loans.We compete with many types of institutions for consumer loans, certain of which can provide loans at significantly below-market interest rates or, in some cases, zero interest rates in connection with automobile sales. Our
inability to compete effectively against these companies or to maintain our relationships with the various automobile dealers through whom we offer consumer loans could limit the growth of our consumer loan business. Economic and credit market
downturns could reduce the ability of our customers to repay loans, which could cause losses to our consumer loan portfolio.

Our business could be negatively affected if we or our banking subsidiaries fail to remain well capitalized, and liquidity needs could
affect our banking business

We are dependent on the
earnings of our subsidiaries.Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of
earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other
payments. Any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and business considerations.



