Items 1 and 2.Business and Properties

General

A Delaware corporation formed in 1971, and publicly held since 1988, Devon (NYSE: DVN) is an independent energy company engaged primarily in the exploration, development and production of oil, natural gas and NGLs. Our operations are concentrated in various North American onshore areas in the U.S. and Canada. Additionally, we control EnLink, a publicly traded MLP with an integrated midstream business with significant size and scale in key operating regions in the U.S. For additional information regarding our control of, and ownership interest in, EnLink and its indirect general partner, the General Partner, seeNote 20in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report.

Our principal and administrative offices are located at 333 West Sheridan, Oklahoma City, OK 73102-5015 (telephone 405-235-3611). As of December 31, 2017, Devon and its consolidated subsidiaries had approximately 4,900 employees, of which approximately 1,500 employees are employed by EnLink (through its subsidiaries).

Devon files or furnishes annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to these reports, with the SEC. Through our website,www.devonenergy.com, we make available electronic copies of the documents we file or furnish to the SEC, the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors and other documents related to our corporate governance. The corporate governance documents available on our website include our Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, and any amendments to and waivers from any provision of that Code will also be posted on our website. Access to these electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing them to the SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other governance documents and filings can be requested by writing to our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this report. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website atwww.sec.gov.

Devon Strategy

Devon is committed to delivering consistent top-quartile shareholder return among its peer group through a highly engaged culture focused on innovation, safety, operational excellence, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. We also maintain a strong commitment to financial strength and flexibility through all commodity price cycles, as reflected in the company’s investment grade credit ratings.

Devon’s “2020 Vision” is our plan through the end of the decade intended to optimize returns and deliver top-tier capital-efficient, cash-flow growth. Our 2020 Vision is focused on the following strategic priorities:

•Maximize cash flow by optimizing base production and reducing per-unit cash costs;

•Improve capital efficiency with a concentration of investment on highest-returning development projects in the Delaware Basin and STACK;

•Simplify our portfolio by monetizing non-core assets;

•Improve financial strength by reducing debt; and

•Return cash to shareholders.

Our portfolio of exploration and production assets and operations provides stable, environmentally responsible production and a platform for future growth. In 2017, we continued the development of our world-class operations in the STACK and Delaware Basin. These assets provide us with a sustainable, multi-decade growth platform that continues to improve with our successful drilling programs. During 2017, we delivered the best well productivity in Devon’s 46-year history and continued a five-year streak of increasing Devon’s initial 90-day production rates. With investments in proprietary data tools, predictive analytics and artificial intelligence, we are delivering industry-leading, initial-rate well productivity and improving the performance of our established wells. Devon has more than doubled its onshore North American oil production since 2012 and has a deep inventory of development opportunities to deliver future oil growth.

As we enter 2018 and look toward the future, we expect to achieve additional efficiencies across our portfolio. We expect to fund activity within our cash flow, and remain committed to allocating capital in a disciplined manner to maximize value and return.









We believe we capture the full value of our assets and improve returns through maximizing our base production and optimizing our capital program. The activities that support this strategy include minimizing controllable downtime, enhancing well productivity, ensuring disciplined project execution, performing premier technical work, focusing on developmental drilling and reducing our operating and capital costs.

We also continue to implement new shareholder-friendly initiatives, which include new returns-based metrics aligned to employee compensation and the conversion to successful efforts accounting which provides greater transparency into our financial performance.

EnLink Strategy

EnLink focuses on providing gathering, transmission, processing, storage, fractionation and marketing to upstream oil and natural gas producers, including Devon.

EnLink connects the wells of natural gas producers in its market areas to its gathering systems, processes natural gas for the removal of NGLs, fractionates NGLs into purity products and markets those products for a fee, transports natural gas and ultimately provides natural gas to a variety of markets. Furthermore, EnLink purchases natural gas from natural gas producers and other supply sources and sells that natural gas to utilities, industrial consumers, other marketers and pipelines.

EnLink’s primary business objective is to provide stable cash flow, while growing through prudent and profitable investments. EnLink accomplishes its objectives through long-term, fee-based contracts and maintaining a strong financial position through a conservative and balanced capital structure highlighted by its investment grade status. EnLink has consistently demonstrated expertise within the MLP space and continues to employ a proven business model that includes growing, expanding and executing on its strategy within top basins where Devon and other successful upstream producers operate.









Oil and Gas Properties

Property Profiles

Key summary data from each of our areas of operation as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 are detailed in the map below.Notes 23and24to the financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report contain additional information on our segments and geographical areas.



Led by results from our franchise assets, STACK and Delaware Basin, Devon achieved the best drilling results in our 46-year history. Our initial 90-day production rates in 2017 increased more than 400% from 2012 levels. These productivity improvements were driven by activity focused in top resource plays, improved subsurface reservoir characterization, leading-edge completion designs and improvements in lateral placement. The most significant reserves growth came from our U.S. operations, where we replaced approximately 150% of our 2017 production with proved reserves additions from the drill bit.

Delaware Basin– The Delaware Basin is one of Devon’s top-two franchise assets and continues to offer exploration and low-risk development opportunities from many geologic reservoirs and play types, including the oil-rich Bone Spring, Delaware, Wolfcamp and Leonard formations. We expect these oil and liquids-rich opportunities across our acreage in the Delaware Basin to









deliver high-margin growth for many years to come. During 2017, our continued appraisal and development work enabled us to increase our proved reserves by approximately 60%. At December 31, 2017, we had eight operated rigs developing this asset. In 2018, we plan to invest approximately $725 million of capital in the Delaware Basin as we shift to expanded development operations, primarily focused on the Bone Spring formation.

STACK– The STACK development, located primarily in Oklahoma’s Canadian, Kingfisher and Blaine counties, is one of Devon’s top-two franchise assets. Devon is currently targeting the Woodford Shale and the Meramec zones. Our STACK position is one of the largest and best in the industry, providing visible long-term growth. Completion design enhancements have resulted in greater productivity and improved economics. Drilling activity in the Meramec has produced record setting initial production across our core position in the oil and liquids window. At December 31, 2017, we had nine operated rigs with drilling focused in the Meramec formation. In 2018, we plan approximately $700 million of capital investment and expect to accelerate full-field development activity.

Heavy Oil– Our operations in Canada are focused on our heavy oil assets in Alberta, Canada. Our most significant Canadian operation is our Jackfish complex, an industry-leading thermal heavy oil operation in the non-conventional oil sands of east central Alberta. We employ a recovery method known as steam-assisted gravity drainage at Jackfish. The Jackfish operation consists of three facilities. We expect Jackfish to maintain a reasonably flat production profile for greater than 20 years requiring approximately $200 million of annual maintenance capital based on current economic conditions.

Our Pike oil sands acreage is situated directly to the southeast of our Jackfish acreage in east central Alberta and has similar reservoir characteristics to Jackfish. The Pike leasehold is currently undeveloped and has no proved reserves or production as of December 31, 2017. With our 50% partner, we continue to evaluate our development timeline for Pike. The majority of our Pike leasehold does not expire until 2025 and 2026.

In addition to Jackfish and Pike, we hold acreage and own producing assets in the Bonnyville region, located to the south and east of Jackfish in eastern Alberta. Bonnyville is a low-risk, high margin oil development play that produces heavy oil by conventional means, without the need for steam injection.

In 2018, we plan approximately $275 million of capital investment in our Canadian Heavy Oil business.

Eagle Ford– We acquired our position in the Eagle Ford in 2014, with acres located in DeWitt and Lavaca counties in south Texas. In 2017, we closed on the sale of our Lavaca assets for approximately $200 million. Since acquiring these assets, we have delivered tremendous results by producing 119 million oil-equivalent barrels. Our excellent results are driven by our development in DeWitt County, located in the economic core of the play. With the highest margins in our portfolio, our Eagle Ford assets generated significant cash flow in 2017. In 2018, we plan approximately $250 million of capital investment.

Rockies Oil– Our acreage in the Rockies is focused on emerging oil opportunities in the Powder River Basin and the Wind River Basin. Recent drilling success in these formations has expanded our drilling inventory, and we expect further growth as we continue to de-risk this emerging light-oil opportunity. As of December 31, 2017, we had one operated rig targeting the Turner formation in northern Converse County of the Powder River Basin. In 2018, we plan approximately $150 million of capital investment.

Barnett Shale– This is our largest property in terms of production and proved reserves. Our leases are located primarily in Denton, Johnson, Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties in north Texas. The Johnson County assets are currently being marketed as part of our non-core divestiture program. Since acquiring a substantial position in this field in 2002, we continue to introduce technology and new innovations to optimize production operations and have transformed this asset into one of the top producing gas fields in North America. Given the sustained low gas price environment, we continue to focus on enhancing existing well performance through re-fracturing, artificial lift and line pressure reduction projects. In 2018, we plan on minimal development activity, with planned capital investment of up to $50 million to optimize base production and further de-risk future development resources.

Proved Reserves

For estimates of our proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves and the discussion of the contribution by each property, seeNote 24in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report.

Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil, gas and NGLs which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions,









operating methods and government regulations. To be considered proved, oil and gas reserves must be economically producible before contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. Also, the project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.

The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment, as discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report. As a result, we have developed internal policies for estimating and recording reserves. Such policies require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance. Our policies assign responsibilities for compliance in reserves bookings to our Reserve Evaluation Group, (the “Group”). These same policies also require that reserve estimates be made by professionally qualified reserves estimators, as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards.

The Group, which is led by Devon’s Director of Reserves and Economics, is responsible for the internal review and certification of reserves estimates. We ensure the Director and key members of the Group have appropriate technical qualifications to oversee the preparation of reserves estimates. The Group reports to and is managed through our finance department. No portion of the Group’s compensation is directly dependent on the quantity of reserves booked.

The Director of the Group has approximately 30 years of industry experience with positions of increasing responsibility for the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He has been employed by Devon for the past 17 years, including the past 10 in his current position. His further professional qualifications include a degree in petroleum engineering, registered professional engineer, member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and experience in reserves estimation for projects in the U.S. (both onshore and offshore), as well as in Canada, Asia, the Middle East and South America.

Throughout the year, the Group performs internal reserves reviews of each operating country’s reserves. The Group also oversees audits and reserves estimates performed by qualified third-party petroleum consulting firms. During 2017, we engaged two such firms to audit approximately 88% of our proved reserves in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation methods and procedures. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. audited approximately 85% of our 2017 U.S. reserves, and Deloitte LLP audited approximately 99% of our Canadian reserves.

In addition to conducting these internal reviews and external reserves audits, we also have a Reserves Committee that consists of three independent members of our Board of Directors. This committee provides additional oversight of our reserves estimation and certification process. The members of our Reserves Committee have educational backgrounds in geology or petroleum engineering, as well as experience relevant to the reserves estimation process. The Reserves Committee meets a minimum of twice a year to discuss reserves issues and policies and meets at least once a year separately with our senior reserves engineering personnel and separately with our third-party petroleum consultants.









The following tables present production, price and cost information for each significant field, country and continent.








(1)Represents production expense per BOE excluding production and property taxes. Jackfish and Canada include purchases of natural gas used to heat the heavy oil reservoirs. The gas is purchased at prevailing market prices, which vary from year to year.









Drilling Statistics

The following table summarizes our development and exploratory drilling results.






(1)Well counts represent net wells completed during each year. Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests.

The following table presents the wells that were in progress on December 31, 2017. As of February 1, 2018, these wells were still in progress.




(1)Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own a working interest.

(2)Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests in each well.

Productive Wells

The following table sets forth our producing wells as of December 31, 2017.





(1)Includes bitumen wells.

(2)Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own a working interest.

(3)Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests in each well.

(4)Includes 821 and 367 gross oil and gas wells, respectively, which had multiple completions.









The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. We are the operator of approximately 14,600 gross wells. As operator, we receive reimbursement for direct expenses incurred to perform our duties, as well as monthly per-well producing, drilling, and construction overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the respective areas. In presenting our financial data, we record the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of G&A, which is a common industry practice.

Acreage Statistics

The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2017. Of our 4.3 million net acres, approximately 2.3 million acres are held by production. The acreage in the table includes 0.1 million, 0.2 million and 0.1 million net acres subject to leases that are scheduled to expire during 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, there were no proved undeveloped reserves associated with our expiring acreage. Of the 0.4 million net acres set to expire by December 31, 2020, we anticipate performing operational and administrative actions to continue the lease terms for portions of the acreage that we intend to further assess. However, we do expect to allow a portion of the acreage to expire in the normal course of business. In 2017, we allowed approximately 0.2 million acres to expire.





(1)Gross acres are the sum of all acres in which we own a working interest.

(2)Net acres are gross acres multiplied by our fractional working interests in the acreage.

Title to Properties

Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. We believe that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.

As is customary in the industry, a preliminary title investigation, typically consisting of a review of local title records, is made at the time of acquisitions of undeveloped properties. More thorough title investigations, which generally include a review of title records and the preparation of title opinions by outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.

EnLink Midstream Properties

EnLink represents the primary component of our midstream operations. EnLink’s assets are comprised of systems and other assets located in four primary regions:

•Texas– The Texas assets consist of natural gas gathering, processing and transmission operations in north Texas and the Midland and Delaware Basins in west Texas.

•Oklahoma– The Oklahoma assets consist of natural gas gathering, processing and transmission activities in Cana-Woodford, Arkoma-Woodford, Northern Oklahoma Woodford, STACK and Central Northern Oklahoma Woodford shale areas.

•Louisiana– The Louisiana assets consist of natural gas pipelines, natural gas processing plants, gas and NGL storage facilities, fractionation facilities and NGL pipelines located in Louisiana.

•Crude and Condensate– The Crude and Condensate assets consist of Ohio River Valley crude oil, condensate, condensate stabilization, natural gas compression and brine disposal activities in the Utica and Marcellus Shales, crude oil operations in the Permian Basin and central Oklahoma, and crude oil activities associated with VEX located in the Eagle Ford Shale.









Marketing Activities

Oil, Gas and NGL Marketing

The spot markets for oil, gas and NGLs are subject to volatility as supply and demand factors fluctuate. As detailed below, we sell our production under both long-term (one year or more) and short-term (less than one year) agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Regardless of the term of the contract, the vast majority of our production is sold at variable, or market-sensitive, prices.

Additionally, we may enter into financial hedging arrangements or fixed-price contracts associated with a portion of our oil, gas and NGL production. These activities are intended to support targeted price levels and to manage our exposure to price fluctuations. SeeNote 4in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report for further information.

As of January 2018, our production was sold under the following contract terms.



Short-TermLong-TermVariableFixedVariableFixedOil and bitumen80%—20%—Natural gas52%4%44%—NGLs33%20%47%—



Delivery Commitments

A portion of our production is sold under certain contractual arrangements that specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity. As of December 31, 2017, we were committed to deliver the following fixed quantities of production.






We expect to fulfill our delivery commitments primarily with production from our proved developed reserves. Moreover, our proved reserves have generally been sufficient to satisfy our delivery commitments during the three most recent years, and we expect such reserves will continue to be the primary means of fulfilling our future commitments. However, where our proved reserves are not sufficient to satisfy our delivery commitments, we can and may use spot market purchases to satisfy the commitments.

Customers

During 2017, 2016 and 2015, no purchaser accounted for over 10% of our consolidated sales revenue.

Competition

See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Public Policy and Government Regulation

Our industry is subject to a wide range of regulations. Laws, rules, regulations, taxes, fees and other policy implementation actions affecting our industry have been pervasive and are under constant review for amendment or expansion. Numerous government agencies have issued extensive regulations which are binding on our industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations increase the cost of doing business and consequently affect profitability. Because public policy changes are commonplace, and existing laws and regulations are frequently amended, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of compliance. However, we do not expect that any of these laws and regulations will affect our operations materially differently than they would affect other companies with similar operations, size and financial strength. The following are significant areas of government control and regulation affecting our operations.









Exploration and Production Regulation

Our operations are subject to federal, tribal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations relate to matters that include:

•acquisition of seismic data;

•location, drilling and casing of wells;

•well design;

•hydraulic fracturing;

•well production;

•spill prevention plans;

•emissions and discharge permitting;

•use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and materials incidental to oil and gas operations;

•surface usage and the restoration of properties upon which wells have been drilled;

•calculation and disbursement of royalty payments and production taxes;

•plugging and abandoning of wells;

•transportation of production; and

•endangered species and habitat.

Our operations also are subject to conservation regulations, including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units; the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit; the rate of production allowable from oil and gas wells; and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In the U.S., some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration, while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases, which may make it more difficult to develop oil and gas properties. In addition, federal and state conservation laws generally limit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and state conservation laws impose certain requirements regarding the ratable purchase of production. These regulations limit the amounts of oil and gas we can produce from our wells and the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill.

Certain of our U.S. natural gas and oil leases are granted or approved by the federal government and administered by the BLM or Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior. Such leases require compliance with detailed federal regulations and orders that regulate, among other matters, drilling and operations on lands covered by these leases and calculation and disbursement of royalty payments to the federal government, tribes or tribal members. The federal government has been particularly active in recent years in evaluating and, in some cases, promulgating new rules and regulations regarding competitive lease bidding, venting and flaring, oil and gas measurement and royalty payment obligations for production from federal lands. In addition, permitting activities on federal lands are subject to frequent delays.

Royalties and Incentives in Canada

The royalty calculation in Canada is a significant factor in the profitability of Canadian oil and gas production. Oil sands crown royalties are determined by government regulations and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, net of allowed deductions. The royalty percentage is determined on a sliding-scale based on crown posted prices. For pre-payout oil sands projects, the regulations prescribe lower royalty rates for oil sands projects until allowable capital costs have been recovered. In early 2016, the Alberta government adopted the recommendation of its Royalty Review Panel. The new royalty framework preserves the existing royalty structure and rates for oil sands. For conventional oil and gas royalty calculations,wells drilled after January 1, 2017would use theModernized Royalty Framework (MRF) which prescribes a lower royalty rate until allowable costs have been recovered. The calculation for wells post payout is based on a percentage of production net of allowed deductions and varies with commodity price.

Marketing in Canada

Any oil or gas export requires an exporter to obtain export authorizations from Canada’s National Energy Board.









Environmental, Pipeline Safety and Occupational Regulations

We are subject to many federal, state, provincial, tribal and local laws and regulations concerning occupational safety and health as well as the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment and natural resources. Environmental laws and regulations relate to:

•the discharge of pollutants into federal, provincial and state waters;

•assessing the environmental impact of seismic acquisition, drilling or construction activities;

•the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of waste materials, including hazardous substances;

•the emission of certain gases into the atmosphere;

•the monitoring, abandonment, reclamation and remediation of well and other sites, including sites of former operations;

•the development of emergency response and spill contingency plans;

•the monitoring, repair and design of pipelines used for the transportation of oil and natural gas;

•the protection of threatened and endangered species; and

•worker protection.

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can lead to the imposition of remedial liabilities, administrative, civil or criminal fines or penalties or injunctions limiting our operations in affected areas. Moreover, multiple environmental laws provide for citizen suits, which allow environmental organizations to act in the place of the government and sue operators for alleged violations of environmental law. We consider the costs of environmental protection and safety and health compliance necessary, manageable parts of our business. We have been able to plan for and comply with environmental, safety and health initiatives without materially altering our operating strategy or incurring significant unreimbursed expenditures. However, based on regulatory trends and increasingly stringent laws, our capital expenditures and operating expenses related to the protection of the environment and safety and health compliance have increased over the years and may continue to increase. We cannot predict with any reasonable degree of certainty our future exposure concerning such matters.





