Item 1 and 2.Business and Properties

General

Devon Energy
Corporation (“Devon”) is a leading independent energy company engaged primarily in the exploration, development and production of oil, natural gas and NGLs. Our operations are concentrated in various North American onshore areas in the
U.S. and Canada. We also own natural gas pipelines, plants and treatment facilities in many of our producing areas, making us one of North America’s larger processors of natural gas.

Devon pioneered the commercial development of natural gas from shale and coalbed formations, and we are a proven leader in using steam to
produce oil from the Canadian oil sands. A Delaware corporation formed in 1971, we have been publicly held since 1988, and our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Our principal and administrative offices are located at 20 North
Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK 73102-8260 (telephone 405/235-3611). As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 5,200 employees.

Devon files or furnishes annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K as well as any amendments to these reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”). Through our website, http://www.devonenergy.com, we make available electronic copies of the documents we file or furnish to the SEC, the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors and other documents related
to our corporate governance (including our Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer). Access to these electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after
filing or furnishing them to the SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other governance documents and filings can be requested by writing to our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this report.

In addition, the public may read and copy any materials Devon files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. The public may also obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov.

Strategy

We aspire to
be the premier independent oil and natural gas company in North America and to provide our shareholders with top-quartile returns over the long-term. To achieve this, we strive to optimize our capital investments to maximize growth in cash flows,
earnings, production and reserves, all on a per debt-adjusted share basis. We do this by:



•exercising capital discipline,



•maintaining superior financial strength,



•investing in oil and gas properties with strong full-cycle margins, and



•balancing our production and resource mix between natural gas and liquids.

Growth in cash flow per debt-adjusted share has the greatest long-term correlation to share price appreciation. As a result, we focus on
capital investments that sustain and accelerate growth per debt-adjusted share. In an environment that involves challenged natural gas prices and more robust liquids prices, our capital allocation is focused on liquids-based resource capture and
development. Our portfolio strikes a good balance between oil, NGLs and natural gas with a cost structure that generates highly competitive full-cycle returns. Within our portfolio, we have a deep inventory of repeatable opportunities diversified
across several key resource plays. We also have significant exposure to several emerging plays and new venture opportunities. Finally, the recent divestiture of our offshore operations generated about $8 billion in after-tax proceeds. We used a
portion of these proceeds to repurchase $3.5 billion of our common stock and repay debt, giving us one of the strongest balance sheets in our peer group.







Oil and Gas Properties

Property Profiles

The locations of our key properties are presented
on the following map. These properties include those that currently have significant proved reserves and production, as well as properties that do not currently have significant levels of proved reserves or production but are expected to be the
source of significant future growth in proved reserves and production.











The following table outlines a summary of key data in each of our operating areas for 2011.
Notes 21 and 22 to the financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report contain additional information on our segments and geographical areas.







(1)Gas proved reserves and production are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil.
NGL reserves and production are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil.

N/M Not meaningful.

U.S.

Barnett Shale— This is our largest property both in terms of production and proved reserves. Our leases are located
primarily in Denton, Johnson, Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties in north Texas. The Barnett Shale is a non-conventional reservoir, producing natural gas and NGLs.

We are the largest producer in the Barnett Shale. Since acquiring a substantial position in this field in 2002, we continue to introduce technology and new innovations to enhance production and have
transformed this into one of the top producing gas fields in North America. We have drilled nearly 5,000 wells in the Barnett Shale since 2002, yet we still have several thousand remaining drilling locations. In 2012, we plan to drill approximately
300 wells.

In addition, we have a significant processing plant and gathering system in North Texas to service these
properties. Currently, these midstream assets include over 3,000 miles of pipeline, two natural gas processing plants with 750 MMcf per day of total capacity and a 15 MBbls per day NGL fractionator. To meet increasing demand from our liquids-rich
development drilling, we intend to increase the size of our inlet processing capacity to 890 MMcf per day by early 2013.







Cana-Woodford Shale— Our acreage is located primarily in Oklahoma’s
Canadian, Blaine, Caddo, and Dewey counties. The Cana-Woodford Shale is a non-conventional reservoir and produces natural gas, NGLs and condensate.

The Cana-Woodford is a leading growth area for Devon and has rapidly emerged as one of the most economic shale plays in North America. We are the largest leaseholder and the largest producer in the
Cana-Woodford. During 2011, we increased our production by 85%. We have several thousand remaining drilling locations. In 2012, we plan to drill approximately 200 wells.

In addition, we have constructed a gas processing plant with 200 MMcf per day of total capacity. To meet increasing demand from our development drilling, we intend to increase the size of our plant to 350
MMcf per day by mid-2013.

Permian Basin— These properties have been a legacy asset for us and continue to
offer both exploration and low-risk development opportunities. Our acreage is located in various counties in west Texas and southeast New Mexico. Our current drilling activity is targeting conventional and non-conventional liquids-rich targets
within the Conventional Delaware, Bone Spring, Wolfcamp, Wolfberry and Avalon Shale plays. In 2012, we plan to drill more than 300 wells.

Carthage— Our acreage is located primarily in Harrison, Marion, Panola and Shelby counties in east Texas. These wells produce natural gas and NGLs from conventional reservoirs. In 2012,
we plan to drill approximately 35 wells.

Washakie— These leases are concentrated in Wyoming’s Carbon
and Sweetwater counties. The Washakie wells produce natural gas and NGLs from conventional reservoirs. Targeting the Almond and Lewis formations, we have been among the most active drillers in the Washakie basin for many years.

Granite Wash— Our acreage is concentrated in the Texas Panhandle and western Oklahoma. These properties produce liquids
and natural gas from conventional reservoirs. Our legacy land position in the Granite Wash is held by production and provides some of the best economics in our portfolio. High initial production rates and strong liquids yields contribute to the
superior full-cycle rates of return. In 2012, we plan to drill approximately 65 wells.

Arkoma-Woodford
Shale— Our acreage is located primarily in Coal and Hughes counties in southeastern Oklahoma. These properties produce natural gas and NGLs from a non-conventional reservoir. Our acreage in this play is held by production. In 2012, we
do not plan to drill additional wells.

New Ventures— During 2010 and 2011, we made significant acreage
acquisitions targeting liquids rich production, including the following five exploration opportunities that we have publicly disclosed.



•Michigan Basin — Our 340,000 acres are located in central Michigan and target oil and gas in the A1 Carbonate and Utica shale.



•Mississippian — Our 230,000 acres are located in northern Oklahoma and target oil in the Mississippian Lime and Woodford shale.



•Niobrara — Our 300,000 acres are located primarily in eastern Wyoming and target oil in the Niobrara, Turner, Cordell, Mowry, Frontier and Parkman
plays. Currently, we are using 3D seismic to identify appropriate drilling zones.



•Ohio Utica — Our 235,000 acres are located in Ohio and targets oil in the Utica shale.



•Tuscaloosa — Our 265,000 acres are located in Louisiana and Mississippi and target oil and gas in the silica rich shale zone.







Additionally, in the first quarter of 2012, we expect to close our recently announced
transaction in which our new partner will obtain a 33.3% interest in these new ventures properties for approximately $2.5 billion, including a $900 million payment at closing and $1.6 billion toward our share of future drilling costs. We will
continue to de-risk the development of these properties with our partner by drilling approximately 125 wells in 2012.

Canada

Jackfish— Jackfish is our thermal heavy oil project in the non-conventional oil sands of east central Alberta. We are
the first and only U.S.-based independent energy company to develop and operate an oil sands project in Canada. We are employing steam-assisted gravity drainage at Jackfish. The first phase of Jackfish is fully operational with a gross facility
capacity of 35 MBbls per day. The second phase of Jackfish began production in the second quarter of 2011 and will continue to increase production throughout 2012. Also, in 2011 we received regulatory approval for the construction of a
third phase and will begin construction in 2012. We expect each phase to maintain a flat production profile for greater than 20 years at an average net production rate of approximately 25-30 MBbls per day.

To facilitate the delivery of our heavy oil production, we have a 50% interest in the Access Pipeline transportation system in Canada.
This pipeline system allows us to blend our Jackfish heavy oil production with condensate or other blend-stock and transport the combined product to the Edmonton area for sale.

Northwest— This region includes acreage in west central Alberta and northeast British Columbia. These properties
produce liquids-rich natural gas and light gravity oil from conventional reservoirs. In 2012, we plan to drill approximately 25 wells.

The region includes both winter-only and all season access areas. Multi-zone drilling opportunities are common. Since initial exploration in the 1970s, the region has seen significant infrastructure
expansion. We own and operate gas gathering and processing facilities in the area, enabling projects to be brought on-stream quickly.

Deep Basin— Our properties in Canada’s Deep Basin include portions of west central Alberta and east central British Columbia. The area produces natural gas and liquids from
conventional reservoirs. In 2012, we plan to drill approximately 15 wells.

We are one of the major producers in the Deep
Basin. We have used our large proprietary two-dimensional and three-dimensional seismic databases to build an extensive inventory of deep to mid-range drilling targets in this area. Most recently, we have been testing light oil targets in the
Cardium formation and liquids-rich opportunities in the lower Cretaceous zones, including the Cadomin. The region has winter-only access restrictions in many areas, but offers year-round access in others. We control significant gas processing and
transportation infrastructure throughout the region and hold interests in the only major gas facilities in the Wapiti area.

Lloydminster— Our Lloydminster properties are located to the south and east of Jackfish in eastern Alberta and western
Saskatchewan. Lloydminster produces heavy oil by conventional means, without the need for steam injection. In 2012, we plan to drill approximately 150 wells.

The region is well-developed with significant infrastructure and is primarily accessible year-round for drilling. Lloydminster is a low-risk, high margin oil development play. We have drilled over 2,300
wells in the area since 2003.

Pike— Our Pike oil sands acreage is situated directly to the south of our
Jackfish acreage in east central Alberta and has similar reservoir characteristics to Jackfish. The Pike leasehold is currently undeveloped and has no proved reserves or production as of December 31, 2011. We continued appraisal drilling in
2011 and will carry forward these activities into 2012. The results will help us determine the optimal configuration for the initial phase of development.







Proved Reserves

For estimates of our proved, proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves and the discussion of the contribution by each key property,
see Note 22 to the financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report.

No estimates of our proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of 2011 except in filings with the SEC and
the Department of Energy (“DOE”). Reserve estimates filed with the SEC correspond with the estimates of our reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic
assumptions as the estimates of our reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that we operate and to exclude all interests in wells that we do not operate.

Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated
with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. To be considered proved, oil and gas reserves must be economically producible before
contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. Also, the project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the
project within a reasonable time.

The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant
judgment as discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report. As a result, we have developed internal policies for estimating and recording reserves. Such policies require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and
guidance. Our policies assign responsibilities for compliance in reserves bookings to our Reserve Evaluation Group (the “Group”). These same policies also require that reserve estimates be made by professionally qualified reserves
estimators (“Qualified Estimators”), as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards.

The Group,
which is led by Devon’s Director of Reserves and Economics, is responsible for the internal review and certification of reserves estimates. We ensure the Group’s Director and key members of the Group have appropriate technical
qualifications to oversee the preparation of reserves estimates, including any or all of the following:



•an undergraduate degree in petroleum engineering from an accredited university, or equivalent;



•a petroleum engineering license, or similar certification;



•memberships in oil and gas industry or trade groups; and



•relevant experience estimating reserves.

The current Director of the Group has all of the qualifications listed above. The current Director has been involved with reserves estimation in accordance with SEC definitions and guidance since 1987. He
has experience in reserves estimation for projects in the U.S. (both onshore and offshore), as well as in Canada, Asia, the Middle East and South America. He has been employed by Devon for the past eleven years, including the past four in his
current position. During his career with Devon and others, he was responsible for reserves estimation as the primary reservoir engineer for projects including, but not limited to:



•Hugoton Gas Field (Kansas),



•Sho-Vel-Tum
CO2Flood (Oklahoma),



•West Loco Hills Unit Waterflood and CO2Flood (New Mexico),



•Dagger Draw Oil Field (New Mexico),







•Clarke Lake Gas Field (Alberta, Canada),



•Panyu 4-2 and 5-1 Joint Development (Offshore South China Sea), and



•ACG Unit (Caspian Sea).

From 2003 to 2010, he served as the reservoir engineering representative on our internal peer review team. In this role, he reviewed reserves and resource estimates for projects including, but not limited
to the Mobile Bay Norphlet Discoveries (Gulf of Mexico Shelf), Cascade Lower Tertiary Development (Gulf of Mexico Deepwater) and Polvo Development (Campos Basin, Brazil).

The Group reports independently of any of our operating divisions. The Group’s Director reports to our Vice President of Budget and Reserves, who reports to our Chief Financial Officer. No portion of
the Group’s compensation is directly dependent on the quantity of reserves booked.

Throughout the year, the Group
performs internal audits of each operating division’s reserves. Selection criteria of reserves that are audited include major fields and major additions and revisions to reserves. In addition, the Group reviews reserve estimates with each of
the third-party petroleum consultants discussed below. The Group also ensures our Qualified Estimators obtain continuing education related to the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments.

The Group also oversees audits and reserves estimates performed by third-party consulting firms. During 2011, we engaged two such firms
to audit 95% of our proved reserves. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. audited the 2011 reserve estimates for 97% of our U.S. onshore properties. AJM Deloitte audited 89% of our Canadian reserves.

“Audited” reserves are those quantities of reserves that were estimated by our employees and audited by an independent
petroleum consultant. The Society of Petroleum Engineers’ definition of an audit is an examination of a company’s proved oil and gas reserves and net cash flow by an independent petroleum consultant that is conducted for the purpose of
expressing an opinion as to whether such estimates, in aggregate, are reasonable and have been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation methods and procedures.

In addition to conducting these internal and external reviews, we also have a Reserves Committee that consists of three independent
members of our Board of Directors. This committee provides additional oversight of our reserves estimation and certification process. The Reserves Committee assists the Board of Directors with its duties and responsibilities in evaluating and
reporting our proved reserves, much like our Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in supervising our audit and financial reporting requirements. Besides being independent, the members of our Reserves Committee also have educational
backgrounds in geology or petroleum engineering, as well as experience relevant to the reserves estimation process.

The
Reserves Committee meets a minimum of twice a year to discuss reserves issues and policies, and meets separately with our senior reserves engineering personnel and our independent petroleum consultants at those meetings. The responsibilities of the
Reserves Committee include the following:



•approve the scope of and oversee an annual review and evaluation of our oil, gas and NGL reserves;



•oversee the integrity of our reserves evaluation and reporting system;



•oversee and evaluate our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to our reserves;



•review the qualifications and independence of our independent engineering consultants; and



•monitor the performance of our independent engineering consultants.







Production, Production Prices and Production Costs

The following table presents production, price and cost information for each significant field, country and continent.






(1)Gas production is converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil. NGL production is converted
to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil.

Drilling Statistics

The following table summarizes our development and exploratory drilling results.





(1)These well counts represent net wells completed during each year. Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests on the well.







The following table presents the February 1, 2012, results of our wells that were in
progress on December 31, 2011.



(1)Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own an interest.



(2)Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests on the well.

Productive Wells

The following table sets forth our producing wells as of December 31, 2011.



(1)Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own an interest.



(2)Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests on the well.

The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating
agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. We are the operator of approximately 24,000 of our wells. As operator, we receive reimbursement for direct expenses
incurred to perform our duties, as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area. In presenting our financial data, we record the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of
general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice.

Acreage Statistics

The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2011. The acreage in the
table includes 0.6 million, 1.2 million and 0.5 million net acres subject to leases that are scheduled to expire during 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively.






(1)Gross acres are the sum of all acres in which we own an interest.



(2)Net acres are gross acres multiplied by our fractional working interests on the acreage.







Title to Properties

Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for taxes not yet due and, in some
instances, other encumbrances. We believe that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.

As is customary in the industry, other than a preliminary review of local records, little investigation of record title is made at the
time of acquisitions of undeveloped properties. Investigations, which generally include a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations
on undeveloped properties.

Marketing and Midstream Activities

The primary objective of our marketing and midstream operations is to add value to us and other producers to whom we provide such services by gathering, processing and marketing oil, gas and NGL
production timely and efficiently.

Our marketing and midstream revenues are primarily generated by:



•selling NGLs that are either extracted from the gas streams processed by our plants or purchased from third parties for marketing, and



•selling or gathering gas that moves through our transport pipelines and unrelated third-party pipelines.

Our marketing and midstream costs and expenses are primarily incurred from:



•purchasing the gas streams entering our transport pipelines and plants;



•purchasing fuel needed to operate our plants, compressors and related pipeline facilities;



•purchasing third-party NGLs;



•operating our plants, gathering systems and related facilities; and



•transporting products on unrelated third-party pipelines.

Oil, Gas and NGL Marketing

The spot markets for oil, gas and NGLs
are subject to volatility as supply and demand factors fluctuate. As detailed below, we sell our production under both long-term (one year or more) and short-term (less than one year) agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Regardless of
the term of the contract, the vast majority of our production is sold at variable, or market-sensitive, prices.

Additionally,
we may periodically enter into financial hedging arrangements or fixed-price contracts associated with a portion of our oil and gas production. These activities are intended to support targeted price levels and to manage our exposure to price
fluctuations. See Note 2 to the financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report for further information.

As of January 2012, our production was sold under the following contracts.



Short-TemLong-TemVariableFixedVariableFixedOil77%—23%—Natural gas84%—16%—NGLs69%10%21%—







Delivery Commitments

A portion of our production is sold under certain contractual arrangements that specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity.
As of January 2012, we were committed to deliver the following fixed quantities of production.



TotalLess Than1 Year1-3Years3-5YearsMore Than5 YearsOil (MMBbls)12614272758Natural gas (Bcf)1,077341284109343NGLs (MMBbls)321——Total (MMBoe)(1)308737545115



(1)Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil. NGLs are converted to
Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil.

We expect to fulfill our delivery commitments over the next three years
with production from our proved developed reserves. We expect to fulfill our longer-term delivery commitments beyond three years primarily with our proved developed reserves. In certain regions, we expect to fulfill these longer-term delivery
commitments with our proved undeveloped reserves.

Our proved reserves have been sufficient to satisfy our delivery
commitments during the three most recent years, and we expect such reserves will continue to satisfy our future commitments. However, should our proved reserves not be sufficient to satisfy our delivery commitments, we can and may use spot market
purchases to fulfill the commitments.

Customers

During 2011, 2010 and 2009, no purchaser accounted for over 10% of our revenues.

Competition

See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Public Policy and Government Regulation

The oil and natural gas industry is subject to various types of regulation throughout the world. Laws, rules, regulations and other policy implementations affecting the oil and natural gas industry have
been pervasive and are under constant review for amendment or expansion. Pursuant to public policy changes, numerous government agencies have issued extensive laws and regulations binding on the oil and natural gas industry and its individual
members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Such laws and regulations have a significant impact on oil and gas exploration, production, marketing and midstream activities. These laws and regulations increase the cost of
doing business and, consequently, affect profitability. Because public policy changes affecting the oil and natural gas industry are commonplace and because existing laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to
predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws and regulations. However, we do not expect that any of these laws and regulations will affect our operations in a manner materially different than they would affect other oil and natural
gas companies of similar size and financial strength. The following are significant areas of government control and regulation affecting our operations.

Exploration and Production Regulation

Our oil and gas operations
are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations relate to matters that include, but are not limited to:



•acquisition of seismic data;







•location, drilling and casing of wells;



•hydraulic fracturing;



•well production;



•spill prevention plans;



•emissions and discharge permitting;



•use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and materials incidental to oil and gas operations;



•surface usage and the restoration of properties upon which wells have been drilled;



•calculation and disbursement of royalty payments and production taxes;



•plugging and abandoning of wells; and



•transportation of production.

Our operations also are subject to conservation regulations, including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units; the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit; the
rate of production allowable from oil and gas wells; and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In the U.S., some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration, while other states rely on voluntary
pooling of lands and leases, which may make it more difficult to develop oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws generally limit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratable
purchase of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of oil and gas we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill.

Certain of our U.S. natural gas and oil leases are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management of
the Department of the Interior. Such leases require compliance with detailed federal regulations and orders that regulate, among other matters, drilling and operations on lands covered by these leases, and calculation and disbursement of royalty
payments to the federal government. The federal government has been particularly active in recent years in evaluating and, in some cases, promulgating new rules and regulations regarding competitive lease bidding and royalty payment obligations for
production from federal lands.

Royalties and Incentives in Canada

The royalty system in Canada is a significant factor in the profitability of oil and gas production. Royalties payable on production from
lands other than Crown lands are determined by negotiations between the parties. Crown royalties are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production, with the royalty rate
dependent in part upon prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location and the type and quality of the petroleum product produced. From time to time, the federal and provincial governments of Canada also have established
incentive programs such as royalty rate reductions, royalty holidays, tax credits and fixed rate and profit-sharing royalties for the purpose of encouraging oil and gas exploration or enhanced recovery projects. These incentives generally have the
effect of increasing our revenues, earnings and cash flow.

Pricing and Marketing in Canada

Any oil or gas export to be made pursuant to an export contract that exceeds a certain duration or a certain quantity requires an exporter
to obtain export authorizations from Canada’s National Energy Board (“NEB”). The governments of Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan also regulate the volume of natural gas that may be removed from those provinces for
consumption elsewhere.







Environmental and Occupational Regulations

We are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal and local laws and regulations concerning occupational safety and health as
well as the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. Environmental laws and regulations relate to, among other things:



•assessing the environmental impact of seismic acquisition, drilling or construction activities;



•the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of waste materials;



•the emission of certain gases into the atmosphere;



•the monitoring, abandonment, reclamation and remediation of well and other sites, including sites of former operations; and



•the development of emergency response and spill contingency plans.

We consider the costs of environmental protection and safety and health compliance necessary and manageable parts of our business. We
have been able to plan for and comply with environmental, safety and health initiatives without materially altering our operating strategy or incurring significant unreimbursed expenditures. However, based on regulatory trends and increasingly
stringent laws, our capital expenditures and operating expenses related to the protection of the environment and safety and health compliance have increased over the years and will likely continue to increase. We cannot predict with any reasonable
degree of certainty our future exposure concerning such matters.



