Item 1.Business



General



Devon Energy Corporation, including its subsidiaries
    (“Devon”), is an independent energy company engaged
    primarily in exploration, development and production of natural
    gas and oil. Our operations are concentrated in various North
    American onshore areas in the United States and Canada. We also
    have offshore operations located in Brazil and Angola that are
    currently in the process of being divested.



To complement our upstream oil and gas operations in North
    America, we have a large marketing and midstream operation. With
    these operations, we market gas, crude oil and NGLs. We also
    construct and operate pipelines, storage and treating facilities
    and natural gas processing plants. These midstream facilities
    are used to transport oil, gas, and NGLs and process natural gas.



We began operations in 1971 as a privately held company. We have
    been publicly held since 1988, and our common stock is listed on
    the New York Stock Exchange. Our principal and administrative
    offices are located at 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK73102-8260(telephone 405/235-3611).



Strategy



As an enterprise, we aspire to be the premier independent
    natural gas and oil company in North America. To achieve this,
    we continuously strive to optimize value for our shareholders by
    growing cash flows, earnings, production and reserves, all on a
    per debt-adjusted share basis. We do this by:



•exercising capital discipline;•investing in oil and gas properties with high operating margins;•balancing our reserves and production mix between natural gas
    and liquids;•maintaining a low overall cost structure;•improving performance through our marketing and midstream
    operations; and•preserving financial flexibility.



Over the decade leading up to 2010, we captured an abundance of
    resources by carrying out this strategy. We pioneered horizontal
    drilling in the Barnett Shale and extended this technique to
    other natural gas shale plays in the United States and Canada.
    We became proficient with steam-assisted gravity drainage with
    our Jackfish oil sands development in Alberta, Canada. We
    achieved key oil discoveries with our drilling in the deepwater
    Gulf of Mexico and offshore Brazil. We have tripled our proved
    oil and gas reserves since 2000, and have also assembled an
    extensive inventory of exploration assets representing
    additional unproved resources.



Building off our past successes, in November 2009, we announced
    plans to strategically reposition Devon as a North American
    onshore exploration and production company. As part of this
    strategic repositioning, we are bringing forward the value of
    our offshore assets located in the Gulf of Mexico and countries
    outside North America by divesting them. As of the end of 2010,
    we had sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan,
    China and other International regions, generating
    $5.6 billion in after-tax proceeds. Additionally, we have
    entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore assets in
    Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective governments
    to approve the divestitures. Once the pending transactions are
    complete, we expect to have generated more than $8 billion
    in after-tax proceeds.



This repositioning has allowed us to focus our operations on our
    premier portfolio of North American onshore assets.
    Historically, our North American onshore assets have
    consistently provided us our highest risk-adjusted investment
    returns. By selling our offshore assets, we are able to conduct
    an aggressive, yet disciplined, pursuit of the untapped value of
    these North American onshore opportunities. More specifically,





given the current challenged market for natural gas prices, our
    near-term focus is on the oil and liquids-rich opportunities
    that exist within our balanced portfolio of properties.



Besides investing in our onshore exploration and development
    opportunities, we are also using the divestiture proceeds to
    reduce our debt significantly and conduct up to a
    $3.5 billion common share repurchase program.



Presentation
    of Discontinued Operations



As a result of our November 2009 repositioning announcement, all
    amounts in this document related to our International operations
    are presented as discontinued. Therefore, financial data and
    operational data, such as reserves, production, wells and
    acreage, provided in this document exclude amounts related to
    our International operations unless otherwise provided.



Our U.S. Offshore operations do not qualify as discontinued
    operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and
    operational data provided in this document that pertain to our
    continuing operations include amounts related to our
    U.S. Offshore operations that were divested in 2010. Where
    appropriate, we have presented amounts related to our
    U.S. Offshore assets separate from those of our North
    American Onshore assets.



Development
    of Business



Since our first issuance of common stock to the public in 1988,
    we have executed strategies that have been focused on growth and
    value creation for our shareholders. We increased our total
    proved reserves from 8 MMBoe at year-end 1987 to
    2,873 MMBoe at year-end 2010. During this same time period,
    we increased annual production from 1 MMBoe in 1987 to
    228 MMBoe in 2010. Our expansion over this time period is
    attributable to a focused mergers and acquisitions program
    spanning a number of years, as well as active and successful
    exploration and development programs in more recent years.
    Additionally, our growth has provided meaningful value creation
    for our shareholders. The growth statistics from 1987 to 2010
    translate into annual per share growth rates of 8% for
    production and 11% for reserves.



As a result of this growth, we have become one of the largest
    independent oil and gas companies in North America. During 2010,
    we continued to build off our past successes with a number of
    key accomplishments, including those discussed below.



•Drilling Success— We drilled 1,584 gross
    wells in 2010 on our North American onshore properties with a
    99% success rate. We increased oil and NGL production from our
    North American onshore properties by 6% in 2010, to an average
    of 193 MBoe per day.•Cana-Woodford Shale— We drilled 87 wells
    in the Cana-Woodford Shale play in western Oklahoma and more
    than doubled our industry-leading leasehold position in the play
    to more than 240,000 net acres. Our 2010 production exit
    rate from the Cana-Woodford increased more than 210% over the
    prior year to an average of 147 MMcf of gas equivalent per
    day, including 4 MBbls per day of liquids production. We
    also completed construction and commenced operation of our Cana
    gas processing plant in 2010.•Permian Basin— We exited 2010 with Permian
    production of 45 MBoe per day, which represented a 16%
    increase compared to 2009. We have nearly one million net acres
    of leasehold in the region targeting various oil and
    liquids-rich play types.•Jackfish— In 2010, our net production from our
    Jackfish oil sands project averaged 25 MBbls per day.
    Following scheduled facilities maintenance in the third quarter
    and a third-party pipeline system outage in the fourth quarter,
    our net Jackfish production ramped back up to 30 MBbls per
    day at year-end.



Construction of our second Jackfish project is now complete. We
    expect to begin injecting steam at Jackfish 2 in the second
    quarter, with first oil production expected by the end of 2011.
    We applied for regulatory approval of a third phase of Jackfish
    in the third quarter of 2010.





•Pike— We added to our Canadian oil position by
    acquiring a 50% interest in the Pike oil sands leases. The Pike
    acreage lies immediately adjacent to our highly successful
    Jackfish project and has estimated gross recoverable resources
    that may exceed Jackfish. We are the operator of the project and
    are currently drilling appraisal wells and acquiring seismic
    data. The drilling results and seismic will help us determine
    the optimal configuration for the initial phase of development.•Barnett Shale— Our 2010 production exit rate
    was 1.2 Bcfe per day, including 43 MBbls per day of
    liquids production. This represents a 16% increase in total
    production compared to the 2009 exit rate.



Financial
    Information about Segments and Geographical Areas



Notes 20 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements
    included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data” of this report contain information on
    our segments and geographical areas.



Oil,
    Natural Gas and NGL Marketing and Delivery Commitments



The spot markets for oil, gas and NGLs are subject to volatility
    as supply and demand factors fluctuate. As detailed below, we
    sell our production under both long-term (one year or more) or
    short-term (less than one year) agreements. Regardless of the
    term of the contract, the vast majority of our production is
    sold at variable or market sensitive prices.



Additionally, we may periodically enter into financial hedging
    arrangements or fixed-price contracts associated with a portion
    of our oil and gas production. These activities are intended to
    support targeted price levels and to manage our exposure to
    price fluctuations. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”



Oil
    Marketing



Our oil production is sold under both long-term and short-term
    agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although
    exact percentages vary daily, as of January 2011, approximately
    81% of our oil production was sold under short-term contracts at
    variable or market-sensitive prices. The remaining 19% of oil
    production was sold under long-term, market-indexed contracts
    that are subject to market pricing variations.



Natural
    Gas Marketing



Our gas production is also sold under both long-term and
    short-term agreements at prices negotiated with third parties.
    Although exact percentages vary daily, as of January 2011,
    approximately 81% of our gas production was sold under
    short-term contracts at variable or market-sensitive prices.
    These market-sensitive sales are referred to as “spot
    market” sales. Another 18% of our production was committed
    under various long-term contracts, which dedicate the gas to a
    purchaser for an extended period of time, but still at
    market-sensitive prices. The remaining 1% of our gas production
    was sold under long-term, fixed-price contracts.



NGL
    Marketing



Our NGL production is sold under both long-term and short-term
    agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although
    exact percentages vary, as of January 2011, approximately 83% of
    our NGL production was sold under short-term contracts at
    variable or market-sensitive prices. Approximately 9% of our NGL
    production was sold under short-term, fixed-price contracts. The
    remaining 8% of NGL production was sold under long-term,
    market-sensitive price contracts.





Delivery
    Commitments



A portion of our production is sold under certain contractual
    arrangements that specify the delivery of a fixed and
    determinable quantity. Although exact amounts vary, as of
    January 2011, we were committed to deliver the following fixed
    quantities of our oil and natural gas production:











(1)Gas volumes are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas
    per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy
    content of gas and oil. NGLs are converted to Boe on aone-to-onebasis with oil.



We expect to fulfill our delivery commitments over the next
    three years with production from our proved developed reserves.
    We expect to fulfill our longer-term delivery commitments beyond
    three years primarily with our proved developed reserves. In
    certain regions, we expect to fulfill these longer-term delivery
    commitments with our proved undeveloped reserves. See
    Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included
    in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data” of this report for information related to our proved
    reserves, including the development of our proved undeveloped
    reserves.



Our proved reserves have been sufficient to satisfy our delivery
    commitments during the three most recent years, and we expect
    such reserves will continue to satisfy our future delivery
    commitments. However, should our proved reserves not be
    sufficient to satisfy our future delivery commitments, we can
    and may use spot market purchases to fulfill the commitments.



Marketing
    and Midstream Activities



The primary objective of our marketing and midstream operations
    is to add value to us and other producers to whom we provide
    such services by gathering, processing and marketing oil, gas
    and NGL production in a timely and efficient manner. Our most
    significant midstream asset is the Bridgeport processing plant
    and gathering system located in north Texas. These facilities
    serve not only our gas production from the Barnett Shale but
    also gas production of other producers in the area. We have
    other natural gas processing plants that support our operations,
    including a plant completed in 2010 that serves the
    Cana-Woodford Shale production. Our midstream assets also
    include our 50% interest in the Access Pipeline transportation
    system in Canada. This pipeline system allows us to blend our
    Jackfish heavy oil production with condensate or other
    blend-stock and transport the combined product to the Edmonton
    area for sale.



Our marketing and midstream revenues are primarily generated by:



•selling NGLs that are either extracted from the gas streams
    processed by our plants or purchased from third parties for
    marketing, and•selling or gathering gas that moves through our transport
    pipelines and unrelated third-party pipelines.



Our marketing and midstream costs and expenses are primarily
    incurred from:



•purchasing the gas streams entering our transport pipelines and
    plants;•purchasing fuel needed to operate our plants, compressors and
    related pipeline facilities;•purchasing third-party NGLs;•operating our plants, gathering systems and related
    facilities; and•transporting products on unrelated third-party pipelines.







Customers



We sell our gas production to a variety of customers including
    pipelines, utilities, gas marketing firms, industrial users and
    local distribution companies. Gathering systems and interstate
    and intrastate pipelines are used to consummate gas sales and
    deliveries.



The principal customers for our crude oil production are
    refiners, remarketers and other companies, some of which have
    pipeline facilities near the producing properties. In the event
    pipeline facilities are not conveniently available, crude oil is
    trucked or shipped to storage, refining or pipeline facilities.



Our NGL production is primarily sold to customers engaged in
    petrochemical, refining and heavy oil blending activities.
    Pipelines, railcars and trucks are utilized to move our products
    to market.



During 2010, 2009 and 2008, no purchaser accounted for over 10%
    of our revenues.



Seasonal
    Nature of Business



Generally, the demand for natural gas decreases during the
    summer months and increases during the winter months. Seasonal
    anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers sometimes lessen
    this fluctuation. In addition, pipelines, utilities, local
    distribution companies and industrial users utilize natural gas
    storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter
    requirements during the summer. This can also lessen seasonal
    demand fluctuations.



Public
    Policy and Government Regulation



The oil and natural gas industry is subject to various types of
    regulation throughout the world. Laws, rules, regulations and
    other policy implementations affecting the oil and natural gas
    industry have been pervasive and are under constant review for
    amendment or expansion. Pursuant to public policy changes,
    numerous government agencies have issued extensive laws and
    regulations binding on the oil and natural gas industry and its
    individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties
    for failure to comply. Such laws and regulations have a
    significant impact on oil and gas exploration, production and
    marketing and midstream activities. These laws and regulations
    increase the cost of doing business and, consequently, affect
    profitability. Because public policy changes affecting the oil
    and natural gas industry are commonplace and because existing
    laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we
    are unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying
    with such laws and regulations. However, we do not expect that
    any of these laws and regulations will affect our operations in
    a manner materially different than they would affect other oil
    and natural gas companies of similar size and financial strength.



During 2010, as part of a strategic restructuring of the
    company, we sold our properties in the Gulf of Mexico and the
    majority of our assets outside North America, Additionally, we
    have entered into agreements to sell our remaining offshore
    assets in Brazil and Angola and are waiting for the respective
    governments to approve the divestitures. These divestitures
    reduce our vulnerability to laws, rules and regulations imposed
    by foreign governments, as well as those imposed in the United
    States for offshore exploration and production. The following
    are significant areas of government control and regulation
    affecting our operations in the United States and Canada.



Exploration
    and Production Regulation



Our oil and gas operations are subject to various federal,
    state, provincial, tribal and local laws and regulations. These
    laws and regulations relate to matters that include, but are not
    limited to:



•acquisition of seismic data;•location of wells;•drilling and casing of wells;•hydraulic fracturing;







•well production;•spill prevention plans;•emissions and discharge permitting;•use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and
    materials incidental to oil and gas operations;•surface usage and the restoration of properties upon which wells
    have been drilled;•calculation and disbursement of royalty payments and production
    taxes;•plugging and abandoning of wells; and•transportation of production.



Our operations also are subject to conservation regulations,
    including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing
    units or proration units; the number of wells that may be
    drilled in a unit; the rate of production allowable from oil and
    gas wells; and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas
    properties. In the United States, some states allow the forced
    pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration,
    while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and
    leases, which may make it more difficult to develop oil and gas
    properties. In addition, state conservation laws generally limit
    the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain
    requirements regarding the ratable purchase of production. The
    effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of oil and
    gas we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of
    wells or the locations at which we can drill.



Certain of our U.S. natural gas and oil leases are granted
    by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land
    Management of the Department of the Interior. Such leases
    require compliance with detailed federal regulations and orders
    that regulate, among other matters, drilling and operations on
    lands covered by these leases, and calculation and disbursement
    of royalty payments to the federal government. The federal
    government has been particularly active in recent years in
    evaluating and, in some cases, promulgating new rules and
    regulations regarding competitive lease bidding and royalty
    payment obligations for production from federal lands.



Royalties
    and Incentives in Canada



The royalty system in Canada is a significant factor in the
    profitability of oil and gas production. Royalties payable on
    production from lands other than Crown lands are determined by
    negotiations between the parties. Crown royalties are determined
    by government regulation and are generally calculated as a
    percentage of the value of the gross production, with the
    royalty rate dependent in part upon prescribed reference prices,
    well productivity, geographical location and the type and
    quality of the petroleum product produced. From time to time,
    the federal and provincial governments of Canada also have
    established incentive programs such as royalty rate reductions,
    royalty holidays, tax credits and fixed rate and profit-sharing
    royalties for the purpose of encouraging oil and gas exploration
    or enhanced recovery projects. These incentives generally have
    the effect of increasing our revenues, earnings and cash flow.



Pricing
    and Marketing in Canada



Any oil or gas export to be made pursuant to an export contract
    that exceeds a certain duration or a certain quantity requires
    an exporter to obtain export authorizations from Canada’s
    National Energy Board (“NEB”). The governments of
    Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan also regulate the
    volume of natural gas that may be removed from those provinces
    for consumption elsewhere.





Environmental
    and Occupational Regulations



We are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal and
    local international laws and regulations concerning occupational
    safety and health as well as the discharge of materials into,
    and the protection of, the environment. Environmental laws and
    regulations relate to, among other things:



•assessing the environmental impact of seismic acquisition,
    drilling or construction activities;•the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of waste
    materials;•the emission of certain gases into the atmosphere;•the monitoring, abandonment, reclamation and remediation of well
    and other sites, including sites of former operations; and•the development of emergency response and spill contingency
    plans.



The application of worldwide standards, such as ISO 14000
    governing environmental management systems, is required to be
    implemented for some international oil and gas operations.



We consider the costs of environmental protection and safety and
    health compliance necessary and manageable parts of our
    business. We have been able to plan for and comply with
    environmental, safety and health initiatives without materially
    altering our operating strategy or incurring significant
    unreimbursed expenditures. However, based on regulatory trends
    and increasingly stringent laws, our capital expenditures and
    operating expenses related to the protection of the environment
    and safety and health compliance have increased over the years
    and will likely continue to increase. We cannot predict with any
    reasonable degree of certainty our future exposure concerning
    such matters.



We maintain levels of insurance customary in the industry to
    limit our financial exposure in the event of a substantial
    environmental claim resulting from sudden, unanticipated and
    accidental discharges of oil, salt water or other substances.
    However, we do not maintain 100% coverage concerning any
    environmental claim, and no coverage is maintained with respect
    to any penalty or fine required to be paid because of a
    violation of law.



In 2010, the United States Environmental Protection Agency
    (“EPA”) issued rules requiring oil and natural gas
    companies to track and report their greenhouse gas emissions.
    For Devon, this involves collecting emissions data at more than
    17,000 well sites and numerous natural gas plants and
    compressor stations. While these rules increase our cost of
    doing business, we do not anticipate that we would be impacted
    to any greater degree than other similar oil and natural gas
    companies.



The Kyoto Protocol was adopted by numerous countries in 1997 and
    implemented in 2005. The Protocol requires reductions of certain
    emissions of greenhouse gases. Although the United States has
    not ratified the Protocol, the other countries in which we
    operate have. In 2007, Canada ratified the Kyoto Protocol and
    committed to reducing Canada’s greenhouse gas emissions.
    This commitment was renewed by signing the Copenhagen Accord in
    2009 and the Cancun Agreement in 2010. Although there is no
    framework in place, Canada remains focused on the original
    reduction target of the Kyoto Protocol and is working to align
    greenhouse gas policy with the United States. The mandatory
    reductions on greenhouse gas emissions will create additional
    costs for the Canadian oil and gas industry, including Devon.
    Provincially, British Columbia and Alberta have greenhouse gas
    legislation and regulation that carry some compliance burden for
    the oil and gas sector. Presently, it is not possible to
    accurately estimate the costs we could incur to comply with any
    future laws or regulations developed to achieve emissions
    reductions in Canada or elsewhere, but such expenditures could
    be substantial.



In 2006, we established our Corporate Climate Change Position
    and Strategy. Key components of the strategy include initiation
    of energy efficiency measures, tracking emerging climate change
    legislation and publication of a corporate greenhouse gas
    emission inventory. We last published our emission inventory on
    January 2008. We will publish another emission inventory on or
    before March 31, 2011 to comply with a reporting mandate
    issued by the EPA. Additionally, we continue to explore energy
    efficiency measures and





greenhouse emission reduction opportunities. We also continue to
    monitor legislative and regulatory climate change developments,
    such as the proposals described above.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    5,000 employees. We consider labor relations with our
    employees to be satisfactory. We have not had any work stoppages
    or strikes pertaining to our employees.



Competition



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Availability
    of Reports



Through our website,http://www.devonenergy.com,we make available electronic copies of the charters of the
    committees of our Board of Directors, other documents related to
    our corporate governance (including our Code of Ethics for the
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
    Accounting Officer), and documents we file or furnish to the
    SEC, including our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,and current reports onForm 8-K,as well as any amendments to these reports. Access to these
    electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as
    reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing them to the
    SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other
    governance documents and filings can be requested by writing to
    our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this
    report.



