Item 1.Business



General



Devon Energy Corporation, including its subsidiaries
    (“Devon”), is an independent energy company engaged
    primarily in exploration, development and production of natural
    gas and oil. Our oil and gas operations are concentrated in
    various North American onshore areas in the United States and
    Canada. We also have offshore operations that are situated
    principally in the Gulf of Mexico and regions located offshore
    Azerbaijan, Brazil and China.



To complement our upstream oil and gas operations, we have
    marketing and midstream operations primarily in North America.
    With these operations, we market gas, crude oil and NGLs. We
    also construct and operate pipelines, storage and treating
    facilities and natural gas processing plants. These midstream
    facilities are used to transport oil, gas, and NGLs and process
    natural gas.



We began operations in 1971 as a privately held company. We have
    been publicly held since 1988, and our common stock is listed on
    the New York Stock Exchange. Our principal and administrative
    offices are located at 20 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, OK73102-8260(telephone 405/235-3611).



Strategy



As an enterprise, we aspire to be the premier independent
    natural gas and oil company in North America. To achieve this,
    we continuously strive to optimize value for our shareholders by
    growing reserves, production, earnings and cash flows, all on a
    per share basis. We do this by:



•exercising capital discipline;•investing in oil and gas properties with high operating margins;•balancing our reserves and production mix between natural gas
    and liquids;•maintaining a low overall cost structure;•improving performance through our marketing and midstream
    operations; and•preserving financial flexibility.



Over the past decade, we captured an abundance of resources by
    carrying out this strategy. We pioneered horizontal drilling in
    the Barnett Shale and extended this technique to other natural
    gas shale plays in the United States and Canada. We became
    proficient with steam-assisted gravity drainage with our
    Jackfish oil sands development in Alberta, Canada. We achieved
    key oil discoveries with our drilling in the deepwater Gulf of
    Mexico and offshore Brazil. We have more than tripled our proved
    oil and gas reserves since 2000, and have also assembled an
    extensive inventory of exploration assets representing
    additional unproved resources.



Building off our past successes, in November 2009, we announced
    plans to strategically reposition Devon as a high-growth, North
    American onshore exploration and production company. As part of
    this strategic repositioning, we plan to bring forward the value
    of our offshore assets located in the Gulf of Mexico and
    countries outside North America by divesting them.



This repositioning is driven by our desire to unlock and
    accelerate the realization of the value underlying the deep
    inventory of opportunities we have. We have assembled a valuable
    portfolio of offshore assets, and we have a considerable
    inventory of premier North American onshore assets. However, our
    North American onshore assets have consistently provided us our
    highest risk-adjusted investment returns. By selling our
    offshore assets, we can more aggressively pursue the untapped
    value of these North American onshore opportunities. Besides
    reducing debt, the offshore divestiture proceeds are expected to
    provide significant funds to redeploy into our prolific North
    American onshore opportunities. With these added funds, we plan
    to accelerate the growth and realization of the value of our
    North American onshore assets.





Presentation
    of Discontinued Operations



As a result of the planned divestitures of our offshore assets,
    all amounts in this document related to our International
    operations are presented as discontinued. Therefore, financial
    data and operational data, such as reserves, production, wells
    and acreage, provided in this document exclude amounts related
    to our International operations unless otherwise provided.



Even though we are also divesting our U.S. Offshore
    operations, these properties do not qualify as discontinued
    operations under accounting rules. As such, financial and
    operational data provided in this document that pertain to our
    continuing operations include amounts related to our
    U.S. Offshore operations. Where appropriate, we have
    presented amounts related to our U.S. Offshore assets
    separate from those of our North American Onshore assets.



Development
    of Business



Since our first issuance of common stock to the public in 1988,
    we have executed strategies that have always been focused on
    growth and value creation for our shareholders. We increased our
    total proved reserves from 8 MMBoe at year-end 1987 to
    2,733 MMBoe at year-end 2009. During this same time period,
    we increased annual production from 1 MMBoe in 1987 to
    233 MMBoe in 2009. Our expansion over this time period is
    attributable to a focused mergers and acquisitions program
    spanning a number of years, as well as active and successful
    exploration and development programs in more recent years.
    Additionally, our growth has provided meaningful value creation
    for our shareholders. The growth statistics from 1987 to 2009
    translate into annual per share growth rates of 11% for
    production and 8% for reserves.



As a result of this growth, we have become one of the largest
    independent oil and gas companies in North America. During 2009,
    we continued to build off our past successes with a number of
    key accomplishments, including those discussed below.





•Drilling Success— We drilled 1,135 gross
    wells with a 99% success rate. As a result of our success with
    the drill-bit, we replaced approximately 213% of our 2009
    production. We added 496 MMBoe of proved reserves during
    the year with extensions, discoveries and performance revisions.
    These reserve additions were more than double the 233 MMBoe
    we produced during 2009. Besides increasing our proved reserves,
    our drilling success was also the main driver of our 5%
    production growth in 2009.



•Barnett Shale —We drilled 336 wells in
    the Barnett Shale field in north Texas in 2009, bringing our
    total producing wells in the field to almost 4,200 at year end.
    We exited 2009 with net Barnett Shale production at just over
    one Bcf of natural gas equivalent per day. We are currently
    running 16 operated drilling rigs in the Barnett and expect to
    drill 370 wells in the field in 2010.



•Cana-Woodford Shale— We drilled 47 successful
    wells in the Cana-Woodford Shale in western Oklahoma in 2009. We
    also increased our net production from this important new
    shale-gas resource by nearly 500% to an average of 39 MMcf
    of natural gas equivalent per day. We have increased our lease
    position in the Cana-Woodford Shale to 118,000 net acres
    and expect to drill approximately 85 wells in the field in
    2010.



•Haynesville Shale— We drilled eight
    Haynesville Shale wells in the greater Carthage area of east
    Texas in 2009. These wells have significantly de-risked our
    110,000 net Haynesville Shale acres in the Carthage area.



•Jackfish— In Canada, our 100-percent owned
    Jackfish oil sands project in Alberta was operational throughout
    2009. As measured by production per well andsteam-to-oilratio, Jackfish is one of Canada’s most commercially
    successful steam-assisted gravity drainage projects. In late
    2009, Jackfish’s gross production reached 33.7 MBbls
    of oil per day. The addition of four more producing wells is
    expected to push production to the facility’s capacity of
    35 MBbls per day in early 2010.



Construction continued throughout 2009 on a second phase of the
    Jackfish project. Jackfish 2 is also sized to produce
    35 MBbls of oil per day and will commence operations in
    2011. We expect to file a regulatory application for a third
    phase of the project in the third quarter of 2010.





•Brazil— Offshore Brazil, we participated in
    two significant deepwater discoveries in 2009. The
    Devon-operated Itaipu exploratory discovery followed a
    successful appraisal of the 2008 Wahoo discovery. Both Itaipu
    and Wahoo are pre-salt prospects located in the Campos Basin.



Financial
    Information about Segments and Geographical Areas



Notes 20 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements
    included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data” of this report contain information on
    our segments and geographical areas.



Oil,
    Natural Gas and NGL Marketing



The spot markets for oil, gas and NGLs are subject to volatility
    as supply and demand factors fluctuate. As detailed below, we
    sell our production under both long-term (one year or more) or
    short-term (less than one year) agreements. Regardless of the
    term of the contract, the vast majority of our production is
    sold at variable or market sensitive prices.



Additionally, we may periodically enter into financial hedging
    arrangements or fixed-price contracts associated with a portion
    of our oil and gas production. These activities are intended to
    support targeted price levels and to manage our exposure to
    price fluctuations. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”



Oil
    Marketing



Our oil production is sold under both long-term and short-term
    agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although
    exact percentages vary daily, as of January 2010, approximately
    81% of our oil production was sold under short-term contracts at
    variable or market-sensitive prices. The remaining 19% of oil
    production was sold under long-term, market-indexed contracts
    that are subject to market pricing variations.



Natural
    Gas Marketing



Our gas production is also sold under both long-term and
    short-term agreements at prices negotiated with third parties.
    Although exact percentages vary daily, as of January 2010,
    approximately 86% of our gas production was sold under
    short-term contracts at variable or market-sensitive prices.
    These market-sensitive sales are referred to as “spot
    market” sales. Another 13% of our production was committed
    under various long-term contracts, which dedicate the gas to a
    purchaser for an extended period of time, but still at
    market-sensitive prices. The remaining 1% of our gas production
    was sold under long-term, fixed-price contracts.



NGL
    Marketing



Our NGL production is sold under both long-term and short-term
    agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Although
    exact percentages vary, as of January 2010, approximately 90% of
    our NGL production was sold under short-term contracts at
    variable or market-sensitive prices. The remaining 10% of NGL
    production was sold under short-term, fixed-price contracts.



Marketing
    and Midstream Activities



The primary objective of our marketing and midstream operations
    is to add value to us and other producers to whom we provide
    such services by gathering, processing and marketing oil, gas
    and NGL production in a timely and efficient manner. Our most
    significant midstream asset is the Bridgeport processing plant
    and gathering system located in north Texas. These facilities
    serve not only our gas production from the Barnett Shale but
    also gas production of other producers in the area. Our
    midstream assets also include our 50% interest in the Access
    Pipeline transportation system in Canada. This pipeline system
    allows us to blend our Jackfish heavy oil production with
    condensate and transport the combined product to the Edmonton
    area for sale.





Our marketing and midstream revenues are primarily generated by:



•selling NGLs that are either extracted from the gas streams
    processed by our plants or purchased from third parties for
    marketing, and•selling or gathering gas that moves through our transport
    pipelines and unrelated third-party pipelines.



Our marketing and midstream costs and expenses are primarily
    incurred from:



•purchasing the gas streams entering our transport pipelines and
    plants;•purchasing fuel needed to operate our plants, compressors and
    related pipeline facilities;•purchasing third-party NGLs;•operating our plants, gathering systems and related
    facilities; and•transporting products on unrelated third-party pipelines.



Customers



We sell our gas production to a variety of customers including
    pipelines, utilities, gas marketing firms, industrial users and
    local distribution companies. Gathering systems and interstate
    and intrastate pipelines are used to consummate gas sales and
    deliveries.



The principal customers for our crude oil production are
    refiners, remarketers and other companies, some of which have
    pipeline facilities near the producing properties. In the event
    pipeline facilities are not conveniently available, crude oil is
    trucked or shipped to storage, refining or pipeline facilities.



Our NGL production is primarily sold to customers engaged in
    petrochemical, refining and heavy oil blending activities.
    Pipelines, railcars and trucks are utilized to move our products
    to market.



During 2009, 2008 and 2007, no purchaser accounted for over 10%
    of our revenues.



Seasonal
    Nature of Business



Generally, but not always, the demand for natural gas decreases
    during the summer months and increases during the winter months.
    Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers sometimes
    lessen this fluctuation. In addition, pipelines, utilities,
    local distribution companies and industrial users utilize
    natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their
    anticipated winter requirements during the summer. This can also
    lessen seasonal demand fluctuations.



Public
    Policy and Government Regulation



The oil and gas industry is subject to various types of
    regulation throughout the world. Laws, rules, regulations and
    other policy implementations affecting the oil and gas industry
    have been pervasive and are under constant review for amendment
    or expansion. Pursuant to public policy changes, numerous
    government agencies have issued extensive laws and regulations
    binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members,
    some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply.
    Such laws and regulations have a significant impact on oil and
    gas exploration, production and marketing and midstream
    activities. These laws and regulations increase the cost of
    doing business and, consequently, affect profitability. Because
    public policy changes affecting the oil and gas industry are
    commonplace and because existing laws and regulations are
    frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to predict
    the future cost or impact of complying with such laws and
    regulations. However, we do not expect that any of these laws
    and regulations will affect our operations in a manner
    materially different than they would affect other oil and gas
    companies of similar size and financial strength.



The following are significant areas of government control and
    regulation in the United States, Canada and other international
    locations in which we operate.





Exploration
    and Production Regulation



Our oil and gas operations are subject to various federal,
    state, provincial, tribal, local and international laws and
    regulations. These regulations relate to matters that include,
    but are not limited to:



•acquisition of seismic data;•location of wells;•drilling and casing of wells;•well production;•spill prevention plans;•emissions permitting;•use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and
    materials incidental to oil and gas operations;•surface usage and the restoration of properties upon which wells
    have been drilled;•calculation and disbursement of royalty payments and production
    taxes;•plugging and abandoning of wells;•transportation of production; and•in international operations, minimum investments in the country
    of operations.



Our operations also are subject to conservation regulations,
    including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing
    units or proration units; the number of wells that may be
    drilled in a unit; the rate of production allowable from oil and
    gas wells; and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas
    properties. In the United States, some states allow the forced
    pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration,
    while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and
    leases, which may make it more difficult to develop oil and gas
    properties. In addition, state conservation laws generally limit
    the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain
    requirements regarding the ratable purchase of production. The
    effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of oil and
    gas we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of
    wells or the locations at which we can drill.



Certain of our U.S. natural gas and oil leases are granted
    by the federal government and administered by various federal
    agencies, including the Bureau of Land Management and the
    Minerals Management Service (“MMS”) of the Department
    of the Interior. Such leases require compliance with detailed
    federal regulations and orders that regulate, among other
    matters, drilling and operations on lands covered by these
    leases, and calculation and disbursement of royalty payments to
    the federal government. The MMS has been particularly active in
    recent years in evaluating and, in some cases, promulgating new
    rules and regulations regarding competitive lease bidding and
    royalty payment obligations for production from federal lands.
    The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission also has jurisdiction
    over certain U.S. offshore activities pursuant to the Outer
    Continental Shelf Lands Act.



Royalties
    and Incentives in Canada



The royalty system in Canada is a significant factor in the
    profitability of oil and gas production. Royalties payable on
    production from lands other than Crown lands are determined by
    negotiations between the parties. Crown royalties are determined
    by government regulation and are generally calculated as a
    percentage of the value of the gross production, with the
    royalty rate dependent in part upon prescribed reference prices,
    well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date
    and the type and quality of the petroleum product produced. From
    time to time, the federal and provincial governments of Canada
    also have established incentive programs such as royalty rate
    reductions, royalty holidays, tax credits and fixed rate and
    profit-sharing royalties for the purpose of encouraging oil and
    gas exploration or enhanced recovery projects. These incentives
    generally have the effect of increasing our revenues, earnings
    and cash flow.





The provincial government of Alberta enacted a new royalty
    regime effective January 1, 2009. The new regime links
    royalties to price and production levels and applies to both new
    and existing conventional oil and gas activities and oil sands
    projects. This regime has generally reduced our proved reserves
    and production in Alberta, as well as the related earnings and
    cash flows. Similar effects have been experienced throughout the
    oil and gas industry in Alberta. Acknowledging this impact on
    the industry, the government of Alberta has announced a
    competitiveness review to assess the impact to the industry as a
    result of the royalty changes. However, we are uncertain whether
    the current regime will be modified.



Pricing
    and Marketing in Canada



Any oil or gas export to be made pursuant to an export contract
    that exceeds a certain duration or a certain quantity requires
    an exporter to obtain export authorizations from Canada’s
    National Energy Board (“NEB”). The governments of
    Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan also regulate the
    volume of natural gas that may be removed from those provinces
    for consumption elsewhere.



Production
    Sharing Contracts



Some of our international licenses are governed by production
    sharing contracts (“PSCs”) between the concessionaires
    and the granting government agency. PSCs are contracts that
    define and regulate the framework for investments, revenue
    sharing, and taxation of mineral interests in foreign countries.
    Unlike most domestic leases, PSCs have defined production terms
    and time limits of generally 30 years. PSCs also generally
    contain sliding scale revenue sharing provisions. As a result,
    at either higher production rates or higher cumulative rates of
    return, PSCs generally allow the government agency to retain
    higher fractions of revenue.



Environmental
    and Occupational Regulations



We are subject to various federal, state, provincial, tribal,
    local and international laws and regulations concerning
    occupational safety and health as well as the discharge of
    materials into, and the protection of, the environment.
    Environmental laws and regulations relate to, among other things:



•assessing the environmental impact of seismic acquisition,
    drilling or construction activities;•the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of waste
    materials;•the emission of certain gases into the atmosphere;•the monitoring, abandonment, reclamation and remediation of well
    and other sites, including sites of former operations; and•the development of emergency response and spill contingency
    plans.



The application of worldwide standards, such as ISO 14000
    governing environmental management systems, is required to be
    implemented for some international oil and gas operations.



We consider the costs of environmental protection and safety and
    health compliance necessary and manageable parts of our
    business. We have been able to plan for and comply with
    environmental, safety and health initiatives without materially
    altering our operating strategy or incurring significant
    unreimbursed expenditures. However, based on regulatory trends
    and increasingly stringent laws, our capital expenditures and
    operating expenses related to the protection of the environment
    and safety and health compliance have increased over the years
    and will likely continue to increase. We cannot predict with any
    reasonable degree of certainty our future exposure concerning
    such matters.



We maintain levels of insurance customary in the industry to
    limit our financial exposure in the event of a substantial
    environmental claim resulting from sudden, unanticipated and
    accidental discharges of oil, salt water or other substances.
    However, we do not maintain 100% coverage concerning any
    environmental claim, and no coverage is maintained with respect
    to any penalty or fine required to be paid because of a
    violation of law.





Climate
    Change



Policy makers in the United States are increasingly focusing on
    whether the emissions of “greenhouse gases,” such as
    carbon dioxide and methane, are contributing to the warming of
    the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. However,
    there is currently no settled scientific consensus on whether,
    or the extent to which, human-derived greenhouse gas emissions
    contribute to climatic change. As an oil and gas company, the
    debate on climate change is relevant to our operations because
    the equipment we use to explore for, develop, produce and
    process oil and natural gas emits greenhouse gases.
    Additionally, the combustion of carbon-based fuels, such as the
    oil, gas and NGLs we sell, emits carbon dioxide and other
    greenhouse gases. As a result, some believe that combustion of
    carbon-based fuels contributes to climate change.



Despite the lack of a settled scientific consensus on
    human-derived impacts on climate change, policy makers at both
    the United States federal and state level have introduced
    legislation and proposed new regulations that are designed to
    quantify and limit the emission of greenhouse gases through
    inventories and limitations on greenhouse gas emissions.
    Legislative initiatives to date have focused on the development
    of “cap and trade” programs. These programs generally
    would cap overall greenhouse gas emissions on an economy-wide
    basis and require major sources of greenhouse gas emissions or
    major fuel producers to acquire and surrender emission
    allowances. As a result of a gradually declining cap, the number
    of government-issued allowances and allowances available for
    trade would be reduced each year until the overall goal of
    greenhouse gas emission reductions is achieved.



Because no final legislation or regulations limiting greenhouse
    gas emissions have been enacted at this time, it is not possible
    to estimate the costs or operational impacts we could experience
    to comply with new legislative or regulatory developments.
    Although we do not anticipate that we would be impacted to any
    greater degree than other similar oil and gas companies, a
    stringent greenhouse gas control program could increase our cost
    of doing business and reduce demand for the oil and natural gas
    that we sell. However, to the extent that any particular
    greenhouse gas program directly or indirectly encourages the use
    of natural gas, demand for the natural gas we sell could
    increase.



The Kyoto Protocol was adopted by numerous countries in 1997 and
    implemented in 2005. The Protocol requires reductions of certain
    emissions of greenhouse gases. Although the United States has
    not ratified the Protocol, certain countries in which we operate
    have. Canada ratified the Protocol in April 2007 and released
    its Regulatory Framework for Air Emissions. The Canadian
    framework is a plan to implement mandatory reductions in
    greenhouse gas emissions. The mandatory reductions on greenhouse
    gas emissions will create additional costs for the Canadian oil
    and gas industry, including us. Certain provinces in Canada also
    have implemented or are currently implementing legislation and
    regulations to report and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which
    also will carry a cost associated with compliance. Presently, it
    is not possible to accurately estimate the costs we could incur
    to comply with any laws or regulations developed to achieve
    emissions reductions in Canada or elsewhere, but such
    expenditures could be substantial.



In 2006, we established our Corporate Climate Change Position
    and Strategy. Key components of the strategy include initiation
    of energy efficiency measures, tracking emerging climate change
    legislation and publication of a corporate greenhouse gas
    emission inventory. We last published our emission inventory on
    January 2008. We will publish another emission inventory on or
    before March 31, 2011 to comply with a reporting mandate
    issued by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
    Additionally, we continue to explore energy efficiency measures
    and greenhouse emission reduction opportunities. We also
    continue to monitor legislative and regulatory climate change
    developments, such as the proposals described above.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    5,400 employees. We consider labor relations with our
    employees to be satisfactory. We have not had any work stoppages
    or strikes pertaining to our employees.



Competition



See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”





Availability
    of Reports



Through our website,http://www.devonenergy.com,we make available electronic copies of the charters of the
    committees of our Board of Directors, other documents related to
    our corporate governance (including our Code of Ethics for the
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
    Accounting Officer), and documents we file or furnish to the
    SEC, including our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,and current reports onForm 8-K,as well as any amendments to these reports. Access to these
    electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as
    reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing them to the
    SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other
    governance documents and filings can be requested by writing to
    our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this
    report.



