Items 1 and 2.Business and Properties

General

Devon is a
leading independent energy company engaged primarily in the exploration, development and production of oil, natural gas and NGLs. Our operations are concentrated in various North American onshore areas in the U.S. and Canada. Our portfolio of oil
and gas properties provides stable, environmentally responsible production and a platform for future growth. We have doubled our onshore North American oil production since 2010 to more than 275 MBbls per day and have a deep inventory of development
opportunities. Devon also produces over 1.6 Bcf of natural gas a day and more than 136 MBbls of NGLs per day.

Additionally,
we control EnLink, a leading integrated midstream business with significant size and scale in key operating regions in the U.S. This MLP focuses on providing gathering, transmission, processing, fractionation and marketing to producers of natural
gas, NGLs, crude oil and condensate.

A Delaware corporation formed in 1971, we have been publicly held since 1988, and our
common stock is listed on the NYSE. Our principal and administrative offices are located at 333 West Sheridan, Oklahoma City, OK 73102-5015 (telephone 405-235-3611). As of December 31, 2015, Devon and its consolidated subsidiaries had
approximately 6,600 employees. Approximately 1,400 of such employees are employed by EnLink (through its subsidiaries).

Devon
files or furnishes annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K as well as any amendments to these reports with the SEC. Through our website, http://www.devonenergy.com, we make available electronic
copies of the documents we file or furnish to the SEC, the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors and other documents related to our corporate governance (including our Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and Chief Accounting Officer). Access to these electronic filings is available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing them to the SEC. Printed copies of our committee charters or other governance
documents and filings can be requested by writing to our corporate secretary at the address on the cover of this report.

In
addition, the public may read and copy any materials Devon files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. The public may also obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference
Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov.

Strategy

Our primary goal is to build value per debt-adjusted share by:



•exploring for undiscovered oil and natural gas reserves;



•purchasing and developing oil and natural gas properties;



•enhancing the value of production through marketing and midstream activities;



•optimizing production operations to control costs; and



•maintaining a strong balance sheet.

During 2015, we continued to execute on this strategy and experienced a number of key achievements that are outlined in this report. However, we, and the entire upstream energy sector, have faced both
operational and financial challenges as oil and natural gas prices weakened significantly throughout 2015 and continued into 2016. To navigate these turbulent times, we are using our focused strategy, flexible portfolio of assets and leadership
experience to execute on a number of initiatives that will ensure our long-term financial strength.







Specifically, after completing the STACK acquisition discussed in this report, we had
approximately $3.9 billion of liquidity.

While we will continue to operate and develop our premier portfolio of assets, we
are committed to protecting our balance sheet and managing our capital programs to be within our cash inflows, including Access Pipeline proceeds. As a result, we are significantly reducing our capital investment in response to lower commodity
prices. We plan to invest $900 million to $1.1 billion in our upstream programs, a decrease of roughly 75% compared to our 2015 capital. We are also committed to reducing our G&A and field-level operating costs commensurate with our reduced, but
focused, activity level. Following a number of cost-reduction initiatives culminating with our February 2016 workforce reduction, we are expecting a $700 million to $900 million reduction in operating and G&A costs on an annualized basis.

Also, in February 2016, we reduced our quarterly common stock dividend 75% to $0.06 per share.







Oil and Gas Properties

Property Profiles

The locations of our core oil and gas properties
are presented on the following map. Additional information related to these properties follows this map, as well as information describing EnLink’s assets.













The following table outlines a summary of key data in each of our operating areas as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2015. Notes 20 and 21 to the financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report contain additional information on our segments and geographical areas.



Delaware Basin– The Delaware Basin has been a legacy asset for Devon and continues
to offer exploration and low-risk development opportunities from many geologic reservoirs and play types, including the oil-rich Bone Spring, Delaware, Wolfcamp and Leonard formations. These oil and liquids-rich opportunities across our acreage in
the Delaware Basin will offer high-margin growth potential for many years to come. In 2016, we plan to invest approximately $200 million of capital in the Delaware Basin, primarily focused on the second Bone Spring opportunity in the basin of
southeast New Mexico.

STACK– In early January 2016, we increased our acreage in the Woodford Shale and
Meramec plays by acquiring 80,000 net acres in the STACK. The STACK development, located primarily in Oklahoma’s Canadian, Kingfisher and Blaine counties, is named for the stacked pay in the area. Our Woodford Shale position is the largest and
one of the best in the industry. Recent well-completion design enhancements have resulted in greater productivity and improved economics. Early drilling activity in the Meramec play has been encouraging across our core position in the oil and
liquids window. In 2016, we plan approximately $325 million of capital investment.

Eagle Ford– We
acquired our position in the Eagle Ford in early 2014 from GeoSouthern and have approximately 66,000 net acres located in the DeWitt and Lavaca counties in south Texas. Since acquiring these assets, we have delivered tremendous results, increasing
production by 125%. Our excellent results are driven byour development in DeWitt County which is located in the economic core of the play. In 2016, we expect our Eagle Ford assets to once again deliver the highest operating margin of any
asset in the portfolio and plan approximately $200 million of capital investment.

Rockies Oil– Our
operations are focused on emerging oil opportunities in the Powder River Basin and the Wind River Basin. In the Powder River, we are currently targeting several Cretaceous oil objectives, including the Turner, Parkman and Frontier formations. Recent
drilling success in these formations has expanded our drilling inventory, and we expect further growth as we continue to de-risk this emerging light-oil opportunity. In December 2015, we acquired 253,000 net acres in the “core” of the oil
fairway in the Powder River. This acquisition delivers some of the best returns in our portfolio and is a significant resource opportunity. In 2016, we plan approximately $75 million of capital investment.

Heavy Oil– Our operations in Canada are focused on our heavy oil assets in Alberta, Canada. Our most significant
Canadian operation is our Jackfish complex, a thermal heavy oil operation in the non-conventional oil sands of east central Alberta. We employ a recovery method known as steam-assisted gravity drainage at Jackfish. In 2014, we brought the third
phase of Jackfish into operation, which ramped up to facility capacity by







the third quarter of 2015. We expect each phase to maintain a reasonably flat production profile for greater than 20 years at an average gross production rate of approximately 35 MBbls per day at
each facility.

Our Pike oil sands acreage is situated directly to the southeast of our Jackfish acreage in east central
Alberta and has similar reservoir characteristics to Jackfish. The Pike leasehold is currently undeveloped and has no proved reserves or production as of December 31, 2015. With our 50% partner, we are evaluating our development timeline for
Pike.

To facilitate the delivery of our heavy oil production, we have a 50% interest in the Access Pipeline transportation
system in Canada. This pipeline system allows us to blend our heavy oil production with condensate or other blend-stock and transport the combined product to the Edmonton area for sale. The Access Pipeline system has the capacity to transport
approximately 170 MBbls of bitumen blend per day, net to our 50% interest. As discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this report, we have plans to monetize our
interest in Access Pipeline in 2016. With any buyer of Access Pipeline, we will also enter into a contractual arrangement to continue transporting our heavy oil volumes on Access Pipeline.

In addition to Jackfish and Pike, we hold acreage and own producing assets in the Bonnyville region, located to the south and east of
Jackfish in eastern Alberta. Bonnyville is a low-risk, high margin oil development play that produces heavy oil by conventional means, without the need for steam injection.

In 2016, we plan approximately $175 million of capital investment in our Canadian Heavy Oil business.

Barnett Shale– This is our largest property in terms of production and proved reserves. Our leases are located primarily in Denton, Johnson, Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties in
north Texas. Since acquiring a substantial position in this field in 2002, we continue to introduce technology and new innovations to optimize production operations and have transformed this into one of the top producing gas fields in North America.
Given the commodity price environment in 2015, we shifted focus to enhancing existing well performance through re-fracturing, artificial lift and line pressure reduction projects. In 2015, we accelerated our horizontal refrac program to test the
re-stimulation of 25 wells and also had an active vertical refrac program, re-stimulating 140 vertical wells. In 2016, we plan on minimal refrac activity in the Barnett.

Other– Other assets are located primarily in the Midland Basin, east Texas, Granite Wash and Mississippian-Lime areas. Substantially all of these properties have been identified for
divestiture in 2016.

Proved Reserves

For estimates of our proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves and the discussion of the contribution by each key property, see Note 21 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data” of this report.

Since the beginning of 2015, no estimates of our proved reserves have been filed with or included
in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency except in filings with the SEC and the DOE. Reserve estimates filed with the SEC correspond with the estimates of our reserves contained in this report. Reserve estimates filed
with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of our reserves included in this report. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that we operate and to
exclude all interests in wells that we do not operate.

Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil, gas and NGLs
which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. To be considered
proved, oil and gas reserves must be economically producible before contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. Also, the project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or
the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.







The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant
judgment as discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report. As a result, we have developed internal policies for estimating and recording reserves. Such policies require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and
guidance. Our policies assign responsibilities for compliance in reserves bookings to our Reserve Evaluation Group (the “Group”). These same policies also require that reserve estimates be made by professionally qualified reserves
estimators (“Qualified Estimators”), as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards.

The Group,
which is led by Devon’s Director of Reserves and Economics, is responsible for the internal review and certification of reserves estimates. We ensure the Group’s Director and key members of the Group have appropriate technical
qualifications to oversee the preparation of reserves estimates, including any or all of the following:



•an undergraduate degree in petroleum engineering from an accredited university, or equivalent;



•a petroleum engineering license, or similar certification;



•memberships in oil and gas industry or trade groups; and



•relevant experience estimating reserves.

The current Director of the Group has all of the qualifications listed above. The current Director has been involved with reserves estimation in accordance with SEC definitions and guidance since 1987. He
has experience in reserves estimation for projects in the U.S. (both onshore and offshore), as well as in Canada, Asia, the Middle East and South America. He has been employed by Devon for the past fifteen years, including the past eight in his
current position. During his career, he has been responsible for reserves estimation as the primary reservoir engineer for projects including, but not limited to:



•Hugoton Gas Field (Kansas);



•Sho-Vel-Tum
CO2Flood (Oklahoma);



•West Loco Hills Unit Waterflood and CO2Flood (New Mexico);



•Dagger Draw Oil Field (New Mexico);



•Clarke Lake Gas Field (Alberta, Canada);



•Panyu 4-2 and 5-1 Joint Development (Offshore South China Sea); and



•ACG Unit (Caspian Sea).

From 2003 to 2010, he served as the reservoir engineering representative on our internal peer review team. In this role, he reviewed reserves and resource estimates for projects including, but not limited
to, the Mobile Bay Norphlet Discoveries (Gulf of Mexico Shelf), Cascade Lower Tertiary Development (Gulf of Mexico Deepwater) and Polvo Development (Campos Basin, Brazil).

The Group reports independently of any of our operating divisions and currently is in our Chief Financial Officer’s organization. No portion of the Group’s compensation is directly dependent on
the quantity of reserves booked.

Throughout the year, the Group performs internal reserves audits of each operating
division’s reserves. Selection criteria of reserves that are audited include major fields and major additions and revisions to reserves. In addition, the Group reviews reserve estimates with each of the third-party petroleum consultants
discussed below. The Group also ensures our Qualified Estimators obtain continuing education related to the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments.

The Group also oversees audits and reserves estimates performed by third-party petroleum consulting firms. During 2015, we engaged two such firms to audit 95% of our proved reserves. LaRoche Petroleum
Consultants, Ltd. audited 94% of our 2015 U.S. reserves, and Deloitte LLP audited 96% of our Canadian reserves.







“Audited” reserves are those quantities of reserves that were estimated by our
employees and audited by an independent petroleum consultant. The Society of Petroleum Engineers’ definition of an audit is an examination of a company’s proved oil and gas reserves and net cash flow by an independent petroleum consultant
that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such estimates, in aggregate, are reasonable and have been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation methods and
procedures.

In addition to conducting these internal and external audits, we also have a Reserves Committee that consists of
three independent members of our Board of Directors. This committee provides additional oversight of our reserves estimation and certification process. The Reserves Committee assists the Board of Directors with its duties and responsibilities in
evaluating and reporting our proved reserves, much like our Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in supervising our audit and financial reporting requirements. Besides being independent, the members of our Reserves Committee also have
educational backgrounds in geology or petroleum engineering, as well as experience relevant to the reserves estimation process.

The Reserves Committee meets a minimum of twice a year to discuss reserves issues and policies and meets at least once a year separately
with our senior reserves engineering personnel and separately with our third-party petroleum consultants. The responsibilities of the Reserves Committee include the following:



•approve the scope of and oversee an annual review and evaluation of our oil, gas and NGL reserves;



•oversee the integrity of our reserves evaluation and reporting system;



•oversee and evaluate our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to our reserves;



•review the qualifications and independence of our third-party petroleum consultants; and



•monitor the performance of our third-party petroleum consultants.

The following table presents our estimated pre-tax cash flow information related to our proved reserves. These estimates correspond with
the method used in presenting the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations” in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.






(1)Estimated pre-tax future net revenue represents estimated future revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and
development costs and site restoration and abandonment charges. The amounts shown do not give effect to DD&A, asset impairments or non-property related expenses such as debt service and income tax expense.

Pre-tax future net revenue and pre-tax 10% present value are non-GAAP measures. The standardized measure was $6.7 billion at the end of
2015. Included as part of the standardized measure were discounted future income taxes of $0.3 billion. Excluding these taxes, the pre-tax 10% present value was $7.0 billion. We believe the pre-tax 10% present value is a useful measure in addition
to the after-tax standardized







measure. The pre-tax 10% present value assists in both the estimation of future cash flows of the current reserves as well as in making relative value comparisons among peer companies. The
after-tax standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company, while the pre-tax 10% present value is based on prices and discount factors, which are more consistent from company to company.

Production, Production Prices and Production Costs

The following table presents production, price and cost information for each significant field, country and continent.




(1)Represents LOE per Boe and excludes severance and property taxes.







Drilling Statistics

The following table summarizes our development and exploratory drilling results.





(1)These well counts represent net wells completed during each year. Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests in each well.

The following table presents the wells that were in progress on December 31, 2015. As of February 1,
2016, these wells were still in progress.





(1)Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own a working interest.

(2)Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests in each well.

Productive Wells

The following table sets forth our producing wells
as of December 31, 2015.




(1)Includes bitumen wells.

(2)Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own a working interest.

(3)Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests in each well.

(4)Includes 809 and 1,565 oil and gas wells, respectively, which had multiple completions and were operated by Devon.







The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator
designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. We are the operator of approximately 19,000 wells. As operator, we receive
reimbursement for direct expenses incurred to perform our duties, as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the respective areas. In presenting our financial data, we record the monthly
overhead reimbursements as a reduction of G&A, which is a common industry practice.

Acreage Statistics

The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2015. Of our
5.5 million net acres, approximately 3.0 million acres are held by production. The acreage in the table includes 0.2 million, 0.4 million and 0.1 million net acres subject to leases that are scheduled to expire during 2016,
2017 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, there were no proved undeveloped reserves associated with our expiring acreage. Of the 0.7 million net acres set to expire by December 31, 2018, we will perform operational and
administrative actions to continue the lease terms for portions of the acreage that we intend to further assess. However, we do expect to allow a portion of the acreage to expire in the normal course of business. In 2015, we allowed approximately
0.8 million acres to expire.





(1)Gross acres are the sum of all acres in which we own a working interest.

(2)Net acres are gross acres multiplied by our fractional working interests in the acreage.

Title to Properties

Title to properties is subject to contractual
arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. We believe that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of properties or from the respective interests therein
or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.

As is customary in the industry, other than a
preliminary review of local records, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisitions of undeveloped properties. Investigations, which generally include a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation
of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.

EnLink Properties

EnLink’s assets are comprised of systems and other assets located in four primary regions:



•Texas– The Texas assets consist of transmission pipelines with a capacity of approximately 1.3 Bcf/d, processing facilities with a total
processing capacity of approximately 1.4 Bcf/d and gathering systems with total capacity of approximately 2.9 Bcf/d.



•Oklahoma– The Oklahoma assets consist of processing facilities with a total processing capacity of approximately 550 MMcf/d and
gathering systems with total capacity of approximately 605 MMcf/d.



•Louisiana– The Louisiana assets consist of transmission pipelines with a capacity of approximately 3.5 Bcf/d, processing facilities
with a total processing capacity of approximately 1.7 Bcf/d, gathering







systems with total capacity of approximately 510 MMcf/d, 660 miles of liquids transport lines and four fractionation assets with total fractionation capacity of 198 MBbls/d.



•Crude and Condensate– The Crude and Condensate assets consist of approximately 350 miles of crude oil and condensate pipelines with
total capacity of approximately 101 MBbls/d, 900 MBbls of above ground storage and eight condensate stabilization and natural gas compression stations with combined capacities of approximately 36 MBbls/d of condensate stabilization and 780 MMcf/d of
natural gas compression.

Marketing and Midstream Activities

Midstream Operations

Comprising approximately 98% of our 2015 midstream operating profit, EnLink is the primary component of our midstream operations. EnLink’s operations primarily focus on providing midstream energy
services, which consist of gathering, transmission, processing, fractionation and marketing, to producers of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and condensate, including Devon. EnLink connects the wells of natural gas producers in its market areas to its
gathering systems, processes natural gas for the removal of NGLs, fractionates NGLs into purity products and markets those products for a fee, transports natural gas and ultimately provides natural gas to a variety of markets. Furthermore, EnLink
purchases natural gas from natural gas producers and other supply sources and sells that natural gas to utilities, industrial consumers, other marketers and pipelines.

Oil, Gas and NGL Marketing

The spot markets for oil, gas and NGLs
are subject to volatility as supply and demand factors fluctuate. As detailed below, we sell our production under both long-term (one year or more) and short-term (less than one year) agreements at prices negotiated with third parties. Regardless of
the term of the contract, the vast majority of our production is sold at variable, or market-sensitive, prices.

Additionally,
we may periodically enter into financial hedging arrangements or fixed-price contracts associated with a portion of our oil, gas and NGL production. These activities are intended to support targeted price levels and to manage our exposure to price
fluctuations. See Note 3 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report for further information.

As of January 2016, our production was sold under the following contract terms.



Short-TermLong-TermVariableFixedVariableFixedOil and bitumen72%—28%—Natural gas36%4%60%—NGLs52%10%38%—

Delivery Commitments

A portion of our production is sold under certain contractual arrangements that specify the delivery of a fixed and determinable quantity. As of December 31, 2015, we were committed to deliver the
following fixed quantities of production.



TotalLess Than 1 Year1-3 Years3-5 YearsMore Than 5 YearsOil and bitumen (MMBbls)1453856465Natural gas (Bcf)73643928710—NGLs (MMBbls)1212———Total (MMBoe)280123104485







We expect to fulfill our delivery commitments primarily with production from our proved
developed reserves. In certain regions, such as in our Heavy Oil operation in Canada, we expect to fulfill these longer-term delivery commitments with our proved undeveloped reserves.

Generally, our proved reserves have been sufficient to satisfy our delivery commitments during the three most recent years, and we expect
such reserves will continue to be the primary means of fulfilling our future commitments. However, where our proved reserves are not sufficient to satisfy our delivery commitments, we may be subject to deficiency payments. In such instances, we can
and may use spot market purchases to satisfy the commitments.

Customers

During 2015, 2014 and 2013, no purchaser accounted for over 10% of our consolidated operating revenues.

Competition

See
“Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

Public Policy and Government Regulation

Our industry is subject to a wide range of regulations. Laws, rules, regulations, taxes, fees and other policy implementation actions
affecting our industry have been pervasive and are under constant review for amendment or expansion. Numerous government agencies have issued extensive regulations which are binding on our industry and its individual members, some of which carry
substantial penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations increase the cost of doing business and consequently affect profitability. Because public policy changes are commonplace, and existing laws and regulations are frequently
amended, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of compliance. However, we do not expect that any of these laws and regulations will affect our operations materially differently than they would affect other companies with similar
operations, size and financial strength. The following are significant areas of government control and regulation affecting our operations.

Exploration and Production Regulation

Our operations are subject to federal, tribal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations relate to matters that include:



•acquisition of seismic data;



•location, drilling and casing of wells;



•well design;



•hydraulic fracturing;



•well production;



•spill prevention plans;



•emissions and discharge permitting;



•use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and materials incidental to oil and gas operations;



•surface usage and the restoration of properties upon which wells have been drilled;



•calculation and disbursement of royalty payments and production taxes;



•plugging and abandoning of wells;







•transportation of production; and



•endangered species and habitat.

Our operations also are subject to conservation regulations, including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units; the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit; the
rate of production allowable from oil and gas wells; and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In the U.S., some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration, while other states rely on voluntary
pooling of lands and leases, which may make it more difficult to develop oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws generally limit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratable
purchase of production. These regulations limit the amounts of oil and gas we can produce from our wells and the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill.

Certain of our U.S. natural gas and oil leases are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior. Such leases require compliance
with detailed federal regulations and orders that regulate, among other matters, drilling and operations on lands covered by these leases and calculation and disbursement of royalty payments to the federal government. The federal government has been
particularly active in recent years in evaluating and, in some cases, promulgating new rules and regulations regarding competitive lease bidding, venting and flaring and royalty payment obligations for production from federal lands.

Royalties and Incentives in Canada

The royalty system in Canada is a significant factor in the profitability of Canadian oil and gas production. Crown royalties are determined by government regulations and are generally calculated as a
percentage of the value of the gross production, net of allowed deductions. The royalty percentage is determined on a sliding-scale based on crown posted prices. The regulations prescribe lower royalty rates for oil sands projects until allowable
capital costs have been recovered. Recently, the province of Alberta released the findings of the Royalty Review Advisory Panel, which concluded that the royalties for oil sands were appropriate and should be maintained in the new royalty system to
be implemented in 2017.

Marketing in Canada

Any oil or gas export that exceeds a certain duration or a certain quantity requires an exporter to obtain export authorizations from Canada’s National Energy Board. The governments of Alberta,
British Columbia and Saskatchewan also regulate the volume of natural gas that may be removed from those provinces for consumption elsewhere.

Environmental and Occupational Regulations

We are subject to many federal, state, provincial, tribal and local laws and regulations concerning occupational safety and health as well as the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the
environment. Environmental laws and regulations relate to:



•the discharge of pollutants into federal and state waters;



•assessing the environmental impact of seismic acquisition, drilling or construction activities;



•the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of waste materials, including hazardous substances;



•the emission of certain gases into the atmosphere;



•the monitoring, abandonment, reclamation and remediation of well and other sites, including sites of former operations;



•the development of emergency response and spill contingency plans; and



•worker protection.







Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can lead to the imposition of remedial
liabilities, administrative, civil or criminal fines or penalties or injunctions limiting our operations in affected areas. We consider the costs of environmental protection and safety and health compliance necessary, manageable parts of our
business. We have been able to plan for and comply with environmental, safety and health initiatives without materially altering our operating strategy or incurring significant unreimbursed expenditures. However, based on regulatory trends and
increasingly stringent laws, our capital expenditures and operating expenses related to the protection of the environment and safety and health compliance have increased over the years and will likely continue to increase. We cannot predict with any
reasonable degree of certainty our future exposure concerning such matters.







