ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



(All Registrants)



PPL Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is an energy and utility holding company that was incorporated in 1994.  Through subsidiaries, PPL delivers electricity to customers in the U.K., Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee; delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky; generates electricity from power plants in the northeastern, northwestern and southeastern U.S.; and markets wholesale or retail energy primarily in the northeastern and northwestern portions of the U.S.  Beginning in 2010, PPL has expanded the rate regulated portion of its business, principally through the 2010 acquisition of LKE and the 2011 acquisition of WPD Midlands, such that it projects nearly all of its 2014 earnings will come from rate-regulated businesses.  See "Acquisitions and Divestitures" below for more information on the acquisitions of regulated businesses.



PPL's principal subsidiaries at December 31, 2013 are shown below (* denotes a Registrant).



PPL Corporation*PPL Capital FundingPPL Global● Engages in the regulated distribution of electricity in the U.K.LKE*PPL Electric*●Engages in the regulated transmission and distribution of electricity in PennsylvaniaPPL Energy Supply*LG&E*●Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, and distribution and sale of natural gas in KentuckyKU*●Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, primarily in KentuckyPPL EnergyPlus●Performs energy marketing and trading activities●Purchases fuelPPL Generation●Engages in the competitive generation of electricity, primarily in Pennsylvania and MontanaU.K. RegulatedSegmentKentucky RegulatedSegmentPennsylvania Regulated SegmentSupplySegment



In addition to PPL Corporation, the other Registrants included in this filing are:



PPL Energy Supply, LLC, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PPL formed in 2000 and is an energy company that through its principal subsidiaries is primarily engaged in the competitive generation and marketing of electricity in two key markets - the northeastern and northwestern U.S.  PPL Energy Supply's principal subsidiaries are PPL EnergyPlus, its marketing and trading subsidiary, and PPL Generation, the owner of its generating facilities in Pennsylvania and Montana.



PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a direct wholly owned subsidiary of PPL incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1920 and a regulated public utility that is an electricity transmission and distribution service provider in eastern and central Pennsylvania.








LG&E and KU Energy LLC,headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a holding company and a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL since 2010.  LKE owns regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG&E and KU, which constitute substantially all of LKE's assets. LG&E and KU are engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas. LG&E and KU maintain their separate corporate identities and serve customers in Kentucky under their respective names. KU also serves customers in Virginia under the Old Dominion Power name and in Tennessee under the KU name. LKE, formed in 2003, is the successor to a Kentucky entity incorporated in 1989.



Louisville Gas and Electric Company,headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky.  LG&E was incorporated in 1913. LG&E is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE.



Kentucky Utilities Company,headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, is a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee.  KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and in Virginia in 1991. KU serves its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name while its Kentucky and Tennessee customers are served under the KU name. KU is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE.



Acquisitions and Divestitures



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



In September, 2010, the KPSC approved a settlement agreement among PPL and all of the intervening parties to PPL's joint application to the KPSC for approval to acquire LKE. In October 2010, both the VSCC and the TRA also approved the transfer of control of LKE to PPL. The orders and the settlement agreement approved by the KPSC contained certain commitments by LG&E and KU with regard to operations, workforce, community involvement and other matters.



Also in October 2010, the FERC approved the application for the transfer of control of LG&E and KU to PPL. The approval included various conditional commitments, such as a continuation of certain existing undertakings with intervenors in prior cases, coordination with intervenors in certain pending matters and an exclusion of any transaction-related costs from wholesale energy and tariff customer rates to the extent that LG&E and KU have agreed to exclude such costs from retail customer rates.



On November 1, 2010, PPL acquired all of the limited liability company interests of E.ON U.S. LLC from a wholly owned subsidiary of E.ON AG.  Upon completion of the acquisition, E.ON U.S. LLC was renamed LG&E and KU Energy LLC.



(PPL)



In April 2011, PPL, through an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, PPL WEM, acquired all the outstanding ordinary share capital of Central Networks East plc and Central Networks Limited, the sole owner of Central Networks West plc, together with certain other related assets and liabilities (collectively referred to as Central Networks and subsequently renamed WPD Midlands), from subsidiaries of E.ON AG.  WPD Midlands operates two regulated distribution networks in the Midlands area of England and is included in the U.K. Regulated segment.  See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



(PPL Energy Supply)



In January 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its entire membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding (the parent holding company of PPL Energy Supply and PPL Global with no other material operations), to better align PPL's organizational structure with the manner in which it manages these businesses and reports segment information in its consolidated financial statements.  The distribution separated the U.S.-based competitive energy marketing and supply business from the U.K.-based regulated electricity distribution business.  See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)



In September 2013, PPL Montana executed a definitive agreement to sell 633 MW of hydroelectric facilities to NorthWestern for $900 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments.  The sale, which is subject to certain regulatory approvals and not expected to close before the second half of 2014, includes 11 hydroelectric power facilities and related assets.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the sale and the related Colstrip operating lease termination and subsequent purchase of the undivided interests in the Colstrip units.








Segment Information



(PPL)



PPL is organized into four reportable segments as depicted in the chart above:  U.K. Regulated, Kentucky Regulated, Pennsylvania Regulated and Supply.  PPL's reportable segments primarily reflect the activities of its related Subsidiary Registrant(s), except that the reportable segments are also allocated certain corporate level financing and other costs that are not included in the results of the applicable Subsidiary Registrant(s).  The U.K. Regulated segment does not have a related Subsidiary Registrant.



A comparison of PPL's three regulated segments is shown below:U.K. RegulatedKY RegulatedPA RegulatedFor the year ended December 31, 2013:Operating Revenues (in billions)$2.4$3.0$1.9Net Income Attributable to PPL Shareowners (in millions)$922$307$209Electric energy delivered (GWh)78,21931,08836,760At December 31, 2013:Regulatory Asset Base (in billions) (a)$9.5$7.6$4.2Service area (in square miles)21,4009,40010,000End-users (in millions)7.71.31.4



(a)Represents RAV for U.K. Regulated, capitalization for KY Regulated and rate base for PA Regulated.



See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for additional financial information about the segments.



(All Registrants except PPL)



PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU each operate within a single reportable segment.



·U.K. Regulated Segment(PPL)Consists of PPL Global which primarily includes WPD's regulated electricity distribution operations and certain costs, such as U.S. income taxes, administrative costs and allocated financing costs.



WPD, through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, operates four of the 15 regulated distribution networks providing electricity service in the U.K.  With the April 2011 acquisition of WPD Midlands, the number of end-users served by WPD has more than doubled, totaling 7.7 million across 21,400 square miles in Wales and southwest and central England.  See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the acquisition.



Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31 are shown below.



201320122011Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueUtility revenues (a)$2,35998$2,28998$1,61898Energy-related businesses442472352Total$2,403100$2,336100$1,653100



(a)Amounts for 2011 are not comparable with 2012 or 2013 as WPD Midlands was acquired in April 2011.  2011 includes eight months of activity as WPD Midlands' results are recorded on a one-month lag.  Amounts for 2013 and 2012 are comparable as each period includes a full year of WPD Midlands' results.



WPD's energy-related business revenues include ancillary activities that support the distribution business, including telecommunication revenues from the rental of fiber optic cables primarily attached to WPD's overhead electricity distribution network, real estate and meter services to businesses across the U.K.



Franchise and Licenses



WPD is authorized by Ofgem to provide electricity distribution services within its concession areas and service territories, subject to certain conditions and obligations.  For instance, WPD is subject to Ofgem regulation with respect to the regulated revenue it can earn and the quality of service it must provide, and WPD can be fined or have its licenses revoked if it does not meet the mandated standard of service.








Ofgem has formal powers to propose modifications to each distribution license.  In January 2014, Ofgem changed the licenses to include a reduction in customer bills to be recovered in subsequent periods.  WPD is not currently aware of any further planned modification to any of its U.K. regulated businesses' distribution licenses that would result in a material adverse change to the U.K. regulated businesses.  See "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Distribution Revenue Reduction" for additional information.



A failure by WPD to comply with the terms of a distribution license may lead to the issuance of an enforcement order by Ofgem.  Ofgem has the power to levy fines of up to 10% of revenue for any breach of a distribution license or, in certain circumstances, such as insolvency, the distribution license itself may be revoked.  Unless terminated in the circumstances mentioned above, a distribution license continues indefinitely until revoked by Ofgem following no less than 25 years' written notice.



Competition



Although WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces little competition with respect to end-users connected to its network.  WPD's four distribution businesses, WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales), WPD (West Midlands) and WPD (East Midlands) are, therefore, regulated monopolies which operate under regulatory price controls.



Revenue and Regulation



The operations of WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands) are regulated by Ofgem under the direction of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority.  The Electricity Act 1989 provides the fundamental framework of electricity companies and established licenses that required each of the DNOs to develop, maintain and operate efficient distribution networks.  Ofgem has established a price control mechanism that provides the amount of revenue that a regulated business can earn and provides for an increase or reduction in revenues based on incentives or penalties for exceeding or underperforming relative to pre-established targets.



This regulatory structure is an incentive-based structure in contrast to the typical U.S. regulatory structure which operates on a cost-recovery based model.  Under the UK regulatory structure, electricity distribution revenues are currently set every five years, but will be extended to eight years in the next price control period beginning in April 2015.  The revenue that DNOs can earn in each price control period is the sum of:  i) the regulator's determination of efficient operating costs, ii) a return on capital from RAV plus an annual adjustment for inflation as determined by Retail Price Index (RPI) for the prior year, iii) a return of capital from RAV (i.e. depreciation), and iv) certain pass-through costs over which the DNO has no control.  Additionally, incentives are provided for a range of activities including exceeding certain reliability and customer service targets.



WPD is currently operating under DPCR5 which is effective for the period from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2015.  Ofgem allowed an average increase in total revenues, before inflationary adjustments in each of the five years of DPCR5 of 6.9% for WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) and 4.5% for WPD Midlands.  The revenue increases include reimbursement for higher operating and capital costs that would be incurred from additional regulatory requirements.  In DPCR5, Ofgem decoupled WPD's allowed revenue from volume delivered over the five-year price control period.  However, in any fiscal period, WPD's revenue could be negatively affected if its tariffs and the volume delivered do not fully recover the allowed revenue for a particular period.  Under-recovered amounts are recovered in the next regulatory year.



In addition to providing a base regulated revenue allowance, Ofgem has established incentive mechanisms to provide significant opportunities to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability and customer service.  Some of the more significant incentive mechanisms under DPCR5 include:



·Interruptions Incentive Scheme (IIS) - This incentive has two major components: 1) Customer interruptions and 2) Customer minutes lost, and both are designed to incentivize the DNOs to invest and operate their networks to manage and reduce both the frequency and duration of power outages.  The target for each DNO is based on a benchmark of data from the last four years of the prior price control period.



Effective April 1, 2012, an additional customer satisfaction incentive mechanism was implemented that includes a customer satisfaction survey, a complaints metric and a measure of stakeholder engagement.  This incentive replaced the customer response telephone performance incentive that was effective April 1, 2010.








·Information Quality Incentive (IQI) - The IQI is designed to incentivize the DNOs to provide good quality information in the business plans they submit to Ofgem during the price control review process and to execute the plan as submitted.  The IQI eliminates the distinction between capital expenditure and operating expense and instead focuses on total expenditure.  Total expenditure is allocated 85% to RAV and currently recovered over 20 years through the regulatory depreciation of RAV and 15% to certain expenses which is recovered during the current price control review period, and includes all corporate and non-network capital expenditures.  The IQI provides for incentives or penalties at the end of DPCR5 based on the ratio of actual expenditures to the expenditures submitted to Ofgem that were the basis for the revenues allowed for the five-year price control period.



At the beginning of DPCR5, WPD was awarded $301 million in IQI revenue of which $222 million will be included in revenue throughout the current price control period with the balance recovered over subsequent price control periods.  The following table shows the amount of further incentive revenue, primarily from IIS, that WPD has earned since the beginning of DPCR5:



Incentive EarnedRegulatory Year Ended IncentiveRegulatory Year Ended(in millions)Included in RevenueMarch 2011$30March 2013March 201283March 2014March 2013104March 2015



In October 2010, Ofgem announced changes to the regulatory framework that will be effective for the U.K. electricity distribution sector, including WPD, beginning April 2015.  The framework, known as RIIO (Revenues = Incentives + Innovation + Outputs), is intended to:



·encourage DNOs to deliver safe, reliable and sustainable network service at long-term value to customers;

·enable DNOs to finance the required investment in a timely and efficient way; and

·remunerate DNOs according to their delivery for customers.



Ofgem published a strategy decision document in March 2013 providing the policies that will apply in RIIO-ED1.  Key components included:



·an extension of the price review period to eight years;

·increased emphasis on outputs and incentives;

·enhanced stakeholder engagement including network customers;

·a stronger incentive framework to encourage more efficient investment and innovation;

·replacement of the current Low Carbon Network Fund to continue to stimulate innovation;

·capital return comprised of a 10 year trailing average debt allowance and an equity allowance to be determined by Ofgem with a debt to equity ratio of 65:35; and

·depreciation of RAV for additions after April 1, 2015 will be extended from 20 years to 45 years, although transitional arrangements will be considered by Ofgem.



In July 2013, WPD filed its business plans with Ofgem for its four DNOs for RIIO-ED1.  In November 2013, Ofgem determined that the 8-year business plans of all four of WPD's DNOs were suitable for accelerated consideration or "fast tracking" and as a result, subject to a final Ofgem determination, merit early settlement of their price controls for the 8-year period starting April 1, 2015.  Fast tracking affords several benefits to the WPD DNOs, including the ability to collect additional revenue equivalent to 2.5% of total annual expenditures during the 8-year price control period (approximately $35 million annually), greater revenue certainty and a higher level of cost savings retention.



In February 2014, Ofgem announced its decision on the consultation related to the cost of equity to be used during the RIIO-ED1 period.  The resulting real cost of equity for WPD was 6.4%, compared to 6.7% proposed in WPD's business plan submittals.  WPD elected to accept this change and remain in the fast-track process.  The change in the cost of equity is not expected to have a significant impact on the results of operations for PPL.  Ofgem expects to announce its fast track final determination in late February 2014.



See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to U.K. Regulated Segment" for additional information on the risks associated with RIIO-ED1.








Customers



The majority of WPD's revenue is known as DUoS and is derived from charging energy suppliers for the delivery of electricity to end-users.  Therefore, WPD's customers are energy suppliers.  Ofgem requires that all licensed electricity distributors and suppliers become parties to the Distribution Connection and Use of System Agreement.  This agreement specifies how creditworthiness will be determined and, as a result, whether the supplier needs to collateralize for its payment obligations.



·Kentucky Regulated Segment(PPL)Consists of the operations of LKE, which owns and operates regulated public utilities engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas, representing primarily the activities of LG&E and KU.  In addition, certain financing costs are allocated to the Kentucky Regulated segment.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



LKE became a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL on November 1, 2010.  LG&E and KU are engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, Virginia and Tennessee.  LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky.  LG&E provides electric service to approximately 397,000 customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky, covering approximately 700 square miles in nine counties and provides natural gas service to approximately 321,000 customers in its electric service area and eight additional counties in Kentucky.  KU provides electric service to approximately 514,000 customers in 77 counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky, approximately 29,000 customers in five counties in southwestern Virginia, and fewer than ten customers in Tennessee, covering approximately 4,800 non-contiguous square miles.  KU also sells wholesale electricity to 12 municipalities in Kentucky under load following contracts.  In Virginia, KU operates under the name Old Dominion Power Company.



Details of operating revenues by customer class for the years ended December 31 are shown below.

201320122011% of% of% ofRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueLKECommercial$77026$72326$71926Industrial587205512053319Residential1,205401,071391,08739Retail - other2609270102699Wholesale - municipal110410241044Wholesale - other (a)441421813Total$2,976100$2,759100$2,793100LG&ECommercial$40529$37428$37227Industrial186131701315211Residential614445484156141Retail - other11981311013010Wholesale - other (a) (b)866101814911Total$1,410100$1,324100$1,364100KUCommercial$36522$34923$34722Industrial401253812538125Residential591365233452634Retail - other141913991399Wholesale - municipal110710271047Wholesale - other (a) (b)271302513Total$1,635100$1,524100$1,548100



(a)Includes wholesale power and transmission revenues.

(b)Includes intercompany power sales and transmission revenues, which are eliminated upon consolidation at LKE.








Franchises and Licenses



LG&E and KU provide electricity delivery service, and LG&E provides natural gas distribution service, in their respective service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities.



Competition



There are currently no other electric public utilities operating within the electric service areas of LKE.  From time to time, bills are introduced into the Kentucky General Assembly which seek to authorize, promote or mandate increased distributed generation, customer choice or other developments.  Neither the Kentucky General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky.  The nature or timing of any legislative or regulatory actions regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LKE, which may be significant, cannot currently be predicted.  Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation that implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation.  KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated.



Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane and other fuels provide indirect competition for natural gas revenues of LKE.  Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to certain large end-users.  LG&E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural gas as a commodity; therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact profitability.  However, some large industrial and commercial customers may physically bypass LG&E's facilities and seek delivery service directly from interstate pipelines or other natural gas distribution systems.



Power Supply



At December 31, 2013, LKE owned, controlled or had a minority ownership interest in generating capacity (summer rating) of 8,079 MW, of which 3,340 MW related to LG&E and 4,739 MW related to KU, in Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio.  See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list of LKE's generating facilities.



The system capacity of LKE's owned or controlled generation is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances.



During 2013, LKE's Kentucky power plants generated the following amounts of electricity.



GWhFuel SourceLKELG&EKUCoal (a)34,33614,56819,768Oil / Gas503176327Hydro300193107Total (b)35,13914,93720,202



(a)Includes 854 GWh of power generated by and purchased from OVEC for LKE, 591 GWh for LG&E and 263 GWh for KU.

(b)This generation represents a 2.1% increase for LKE, a 5% decrease for LG&E and a 8.1% increase for KU from 2012 output.



A significant portion of LG&E's and KU's generated electricity was used to supply its retail and municipal customer base.



LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail and municipal customers.  When LG&E has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail customers and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG&E.  When KU has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail and municipal customers and its generation cost is lower than that of LG&E, LG&E purchases electricity from KU.



See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for additional information regarding LG&E's and KU's Cane Run Unit 7 which is currently under construction.  In January 2014, LG&E and KU filed an application for a CPCN with the KPSC requesting approval to construct a NGCC generating unit at KU's Green River generating site (Green River Unit 5) and a solar generating facility at the E. W. Brown generating site.  As a result of environmental requirements, LG&E and KU anticipate retiring five older coal-fired electric generating units at the Cane Run and Green River plants, which have a combined summer capacity rating of 724 MW.  In addition, KU retired a 12 MW unit at the Haefling plant in December 2013 and the remaining 71 MW unit at the Tyrone plant in February 2013.








Fuel Supply



Coal is expected to be the predominant fuel used by LG&E and KU for baseload generation for the foreseeable future.  However, natural gas will play a more significant role starting in 2015 when Cane Run Unit 7 is expected to be placed into operation, and in 2018 when the NGCC generating unit at Green River generating site is expected to be placed into operation.  These units are expected to be used for baseload generation.  The natural gas for these generating units will be contracted from suppliers separately from LG&E's natural gas customers. Natural gas and oil will continue to be used for intermediate and peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers.



Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units.  Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating difficulties.  To enhance the reliability of natural gas supply, LG&E and KU have secured long-term pipeline capacity on the interstate pipeline serving the new NGCC unit at Cane Run and six simple cycle combustion turbine units.



LG&E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2017 and normally augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases, as needed.



For their existing units, LG&E and KU expect for the foreseeable future to purchase most of their coal from western Kentucky, southern Indiana and southern Illinois.  In 2014 and beyond, LG&E and KU may purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at TC2.  Coal is delivered to the generating plants by barge, truck and rail.



(PPL, LKE and LG&E)



Natural Gas Distribution Supply



Five underground natural gas storage fields, with a current working natural gas capacity of approximately 15 Bcf, are used in providing natural gas service to LG&E's firm sales customers.  By using natural gas storage facilities, LG&E avoids the costs typically associated with more expensive pipeline transportation capacity to serve peak winter heating loads.  Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal during the following winter heating season.  Without this storage capacity, LG&E would be required to purchase additional natural gas and pipeline transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases and the prices for natural gas supply and transportation services are typically at their highest.  Several suppliers under contracts of varying duration provide competitively priced natural gas.  At December 31, 2013, LG&E had 12 Bcf of natural gas stored underground with a carrying value of $48 million.



LG&E has a portfolio of supply arrangements of varying terms with a number of suppliers designed to meet its firm sales obligations.  These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions that are market-responsive.  In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability and flexibility necessary to serve LG&E's natural gas customers.



LG&E purchases natural gas supply transportation services from two pipelines.  LG&E has contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG&E between 2015 and 2018.  Total winter capacity under these contracts is 194,900 MMBtu/day and summer capacity is 88,000 MMBtu/day.  LG&E has a contract with another pipeline that expires in October 2018.  Total winter and summer capacity under this contract is 20,000 MMBtu/day during both seasons.



LG&E expects to purchase most of its natural gas distribution supplies from onshore producing regions in South Texas, East Texas, North Louisiana, and Arkansas, as well as gas delivered to its pipeline transporters in Ohio.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



Rates and Regulation



LG&E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and the FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, the FERC, the VSCC and the TRA.  LG&E and KU operate under a FERC-approved open access transmission tariff.  LG&E and KU contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority to act as their transmission reliability coordinator.  LG&E and KU contract with TranServ International, Inc. to act as their independent transmission operator.








In February 2013, LG&E and KU submitted a compliance filing to the FERC reflecting their participation with other utilities in the Southeastern Regional Transmission Planning relating to certain FERC Order 1000 requirements.  FERC Order 1000, issued in July 2011, establishes certain procedural and substantive requirements relating to participation, cost allocation and non-incumbent developer aspects of regional and inter-regional electric transmission planning activities.



LG&E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and short-term debt) including adjustments for certain net investments and costs recovered separately through other means.  As such, LG&E and KU generally earn a return on regulatory assets.



KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities, except the levelized fuel factor, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia base rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.



KU's rates to municipal customers for wholesale requirements are calculated based on annual updates to a rate formula that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the development of municipal rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.



See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on cost recovery mechanisms.



Rate Cases



See "Regulatory Matters - Kentucky Activities" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for information on rate cases.



·Pennsylvania Regulated Segment(PPL)Includes the regulated electricity delivery operations of PPL Electric.  In addition, certain financing costs are allocated to the Pennsylvania Regulated segment.



(PPL and PPL Electric)



PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act.  PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central Pennsylvania.  PPL Electric also provides electricity supply to retail customers in this area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.



Details of revenues by customer class for the years ended December 31 are shown below.



201320122011Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueDistributionResidential$1,21565$1,10863$1,26667Industrial523533623Commercial363193662143123Other (a) (b)(11)261(47)(3)Transmission251132101218010Total$1,870100$1,763100$1,892100



(a)Includes regulatory over- or under-recovery reconciliation mechanisms, pole attachment revenues, and street lighting.

(b)Included in these amounts for 2013, 2012 and 2011 are $4 million, $3 million and $11 million of retail and wholesale electric to affiliate revenue which is eliminated in consolidation for PPL.



Franchise, Licenses and Other Regulations



PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies which it has succeeded and as a result of certification by the PUC.  PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions.  In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance, resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.








Competition



Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service area.  Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its electricity distribution business.  Pursuant to the Customer Choice Act, generation of electricity is a competitive business in Pennsylvania.



The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent PJM transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM.



Rates and Regulation



Transmission



PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which operates the electricity transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S.



PJM serves as a FERC-approved RTO to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves.  In addition to operating the electricity transmission network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services.  A primary objective of any RTO is to separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same markets.  Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities.



As a transmission owner, PPL Electric's transmission revenues are recovered through PJM in accordance with a FERC approved tariff that allows recovery of incurred transmission costs, a return on transmission-related plant and an automatic annual update based on a formula rate mechanism.  As a PLR, PPL Electric also purchases transmission services from PJM.  See "PLR" below.



In July 2011, FERC issued a Final Rule on Order 1000 directing that Transmission Providers such as PJM, remove from FERC approved tariffs, any provision that grants federal right of first refusal for facilities selected in a regional transmission plan and requiring subsequent compliance filings.  PJM tariff changes are currently under review by the FERC.



See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms.



Distribution



PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus a cash working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous additions and deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets unless specifically provided for by the PUC.  Currently, PPL Electric's Smart Meter rider is the only regulatory asset earning a return.  Certain operating expenses are also included in PPL Electric's distribution base rates including wages and benefits, other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and taxes.



Pennsylvania's AEPS requires electricity distribution companies and electricity generation suppliers to obtain a portion of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania from alternative energy sources.  Under the default service procurement plans approved by the PUC, PPL Electric purchases all of the alternative energy generation supply it needs to comply with the AEPS.



Act 129 created an energy efficiency and conservation program, a demand side management program, smart metering technology requirements, new PLR generation supply procurement rules, remedies for market misconduct, and changes to the existing AEPS.



Act 11 authorizes the PUC to approve two specific ratemaking mechanisms: the use of a fully projected future test year in base rate proceedings and, subject to certain conditions, the use of a DSIC.  Such alternative ratemaking procedures and mechanisms provide opportunity for accelerated cost-recovery and, therefore, are important to PPL Electric as it begins a period of significant capital investment to maintain and enhance the reliability of its delivery system.  In January 2013, PPL Electric filed a petition requesting permission to establish a DSIC.  In May 2013, the PUC approved PPL Electric's proposed DSIC with an initial rate effective July 1, 2013, subject to refund after hearings.  The PUC also assigned four technical recovery calculation issues to the Office of Administrative Law Judge for hearing and preparation of a recommended decision.  The case remains pending before the PUC.








See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding Act 129, Act 11 and other legislative and regulatory impacts.



PLR



The Customer Choice Act requires Electric Distribution Companies (EDCs), including PPL Electric, or an alternative supplier approved by the PUC to act as a PLR of electricity supply for customers who do not choose to shop for supply with a competitive supplier and provides that electricity supply costs will be recovered by the PLR pursuant to regulations established by the PUC.  As of December 31, 2013, the following percentages of PPL Electric's customer load were provided by competitive suppliers:  51% of residential, 84% of small commercial and industrial and 99% of large commercial and industrial customers.  The PUC continues to be interested in expanding the competitive market for electricity.  See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL Electric's cost of electricity generation is based on a competitive solicitation process.  The PUC approved PPL Electric's default service plan for the period June 2013 through May 2015, which includes 4 solicitations for electricity supply held in April and October, annually.  Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric contracts for all of the electricity supply for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, large commercial and large industrial customers who elect to take that service from PPL Electric.  These solicitations include a mix of 12- and 9-month fixed-price load-following contracts for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, and 12-month real-time pricing contracts for large commercial and large industrial customers to fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide customer electricity supply as a PLR.



Numerous alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service territory.  Whether its customers purchase electricity supply from these alternative suppliers or from PPL Electric as a PLR, the purchase of such supply has no impact on the financial results of PPL Electric.  The costs to purchase PLR supply, including charges paid to PJM for related transmission services, are passed directly by PPL Electric to its PLR customers without markup.  See "Energy Purchase Commitments" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding PPL Electric's solicitations.



Rate Cases



See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate cases and the proposed Storm Damage Expense Rider.





·Supply Segment(PPL)Consists primarily of the activities of PPL Energy Supply's subsidiaries, PPL Generation and PPL EnergyPlus.  PPL Generation owns and operates competitive domestic power plants to generate electricity and acquires and develops competitive domestic generation projects.  PPL EnergyPlus markets and trades electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related products in competitive wholesale and retail markets.  In addition, certain financing and other costs are allocated to the Supply segment.



(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)



PPL Energy Supply's generation assets are located in the northeastern and northwestern U.S. markets.  The northeastern generating capacity is located primarily in Pennsylvania within PJM and northwestern generating capacity is located in Montana.  PPL Energy Supply enters into energy and energy-related contracts to hedge the variability of expected cash flows associated with its generating units and marketing activities, as well as for trading purposes.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the electricity produced by PPL Energy Supply's generation plants based on prevailing market rates.  PPL Energy Supply's total expected generation in 2014 is anticipated to be used to meet its committed contractual sales.  PPL Energy Supply has also entered into commitments of varying quantities and terms for 2015 and beyond.








Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31, are shown below.



201320122011Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueEnergyUnregulated wholesale energy (a)$3,09567$4,20476$5,23882Unregulated retail energy1,031228481672711Total energy4,126895,052925,96593Energy-related businesses (b)5271144884647Total$4,653100$5,500100$6,429100



(a)Included in these amounts for 2013, 2012, and 2011 are $51 million, $78 million and $26 million of wholesale electricity sales to an affiliate, PPL Electric, which are eliminated in consolidation for PPL.

(b)Energy-related businesses primarily support the generation, marketing and trading businesses of PPL Energy Supply.  Their activities include developing renewable energy projects and providing energy-related products and services to commercial and industrial customers through their mechanical contracting and services subsidiaries.Energy-related businesses for PPL's Supply segment had additional revenues not related to PPL Energy Supply of $13 million and $8 million for 2012 and 2011, which are not included in this table.



Power Supply



PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled generating capacity (summer rating) of 10,678 MW at December 31, 2013.  Generating capacity controlled by PPL Generation and other PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries includes power obtained through PPL EnergyPlus' power purchase agreements.  See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment" for details of PPL Energy Supply's generating capacity.



During 2013, PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled power plants that generated the following amounts of electricity.



GWhFuel SourceNortheasternNorthwesternTotalNuclear17,01817,018Oil / Gas9,5169,516Coal17,1504,40921,559Hydro6623,2523,914Renewables (a)348348Total44,6947,66152,355



(a)PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries own or control renewable energy projects located in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Vermont and New Hampshire with a generating capacity (summer rating) of 42 MW.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the energy, capacity and RECs produced by these plants into the wholesale market as well as to commercial and industrial customers.



PPL Energy Supply's generation subsidiaries are EWGs that sell electricity into wholesale markets.  EWGs are subject to regulation by the FERC, which has authorized these EWGs to sell the electricity generated at market-based prices.  This electricity is sold to PPL EnergyPlus under FERC-jurisdictional power purchase agreements.  PPL Susquehanna is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of the Susquehanna nuclear units.  Certain of PPL Energy Supply's other subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of their fossil plants with respect to certain level and density monitoring devices.  Certain operations of PPL Generation's subsidiaries are also subject to OSHA and comparable state statutes.



See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for information on the 2011 sale of certain non-core generation facilities.



Fuel Supply



Coal



Pennsylvania



PPL EnergyPlus actively manages PPL Energy Supply's coal requirements by purchasing coal principally from mines located in northern Appalachia.








During 2013, PPL Generation purchased 5.7 million tons of coal required for its wholly owned Pennsylvania plants.  Coal inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units.  Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating difficulties.  PPL Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, has agreements in place that will provide more than 17 million tons of PPL Generation's projected coal needs for the Pennsylvania power plants from 2014 through 2018 and augments its coal supply agreements with spot market purchases, as needed.



A PPL Generation subsidiary owns a 12.34% interest in the Keystone plant and a 16.25% interest in the Conemaugh plant.  PPL Generation owns a 12.34% interest in Keystone Fuels, LLC and a 16.25% interest in Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.  The Keystone plant contracts with Keystone Fuels, LLC for its coal requirements, which provided 4.2 million tons of coal to the Keystone plant in 2013.  The Conemaugh plant requirements are purchased under contract from Conemaugh Fuels, LLC, which provided 4.3 million tons of coal to the Conemaugh plant in 2013.



All wholly owned PPL Generation coal plants within Pennsylvania are equipped with scrubbers, which use limestone in their operations.  Acting as agent for PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus has entered into limestone contracts with suppliers that will provide for those plants' requirements through 2014.  During 2013, 405,000 tons of limestone were delivered to Brunner Island and Montour under these contracts.  Annual limestone requirements range from approximately 400,000-500,000 tons.



Montana



PPL Montana owns a 30% interest in Colstrip Unit 3 and NorthWestern owns a 30% interest in Colstrip Unit 4.  PPL Montana and NorthWestern have a sharing agreement that governs each party's responsibilities and rights relating to the operation of Colstrip Units 3 and 4.  Under the terms of that agreement, each party is responsible for 15% of the total non-coal operating and construction costs of Colstrip Units 3 and 4, regardless of whether a particular cost is specific to Colstrip Unit 3 or 4 and is entitled to take up to 15% of the available generation from Units 3 and 4.  Each party is responsible for its own coal costs.  PPL Montana, with the other Colstrip owners, is party to contracts to purchase 100% of its coal requirements with defined coal quality characteristics and specifications.  PPL Montana, with the other Colstrip Units 1 and 2 owner, has a long-term purchase and supply agreement with the current supplier for Units 1 and 2, which provides these units 100% of their coal requirements through December 2014, and at least 85% of such requirements from January 2015 through December 2019.  PPL Montana, with the other Colstrip Units 3 and 4 owners, has a long-term coal supply contract for Units 3 and 4, which provides these units 100% of their coal requirements through December 2019.



These units were originally built with scrubbers and PPL Montana has entered into a long-term contract to purchase the limestone requirements for these units.  The contract extends through December 2030.



Coal supply contracts are in place to purchase low-sulfur coal with defined quality characteristics and specifications for PPL Montana's Corette plant.  The contracts covered 100% of the plant's coal requirements in 2013 and similar contracts are in place to supply 100% of the expected coal requirements through 2014.  In the third quarter of 2012, PPL Energy Supply announced its intention, beginning in April 2015, to place its Corette plant in long-term reserve status, suspending the plant's operation due to expected market conditions and the costs to comply with MATS.



Oil and Natural Gas



Pennsylvania



PPL Generation's Martins Creek Units 3 and 4 burn both oil and natural gas.  During 2013, 100% of the physical gas requirements for the Martins Creek units were purchased on the spot market and oil requirements were supplied from inventory.  At December 31, 2013, there were no long-term agreements for oil or natural gas for these units.



Short-term and long-term gas transportation contracts are in place for approximately 38% of the maximum daily requirements of the Lower Mt. Bethel combined-cycle facility.  During 2013, 100% of the physical gas requirements were purchased on the spot market.



For PPL's Ironwood facility, PPL EnergyPlus has long-term transportation contracts that can deliver up to approximately 25% of Ironwood's maximum daily gas requirements.  Daily gas requirements can also be met through a combination of short-term transportation capacity release transactions coupled with upstream supply.  PPL EnergyPlus currently has no long-term physical gas contracts for this facility.  During 2013, 100% of the physical gas requirements were purchased on the spot market.








Nuclear



The nuclear fuel cycle consists of several material and service components:  the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; the conversion of these concentrates into uranium hexafluoride, a gas component; the enrichment of the hexafluoride gas; the fabrication of fuel assemblies for insertion and use in the reactor core; and the temporary storage and final disposal of spent nuclear fuel.



PPL Susquehanna has a portfolio of supply contracts, with varying expiration dates, for nuclear fuel materials and services.  These contracts are expected to provide sufficient fuel to permit Unit 1 to operate into the first quarter of 2018 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter of 2019.  PPL Susquehanna anticipates entering into additional contracts to ensure continued operation of the nuclear units.



Federal law requires the U.S. government to provide for the permanent disposal of commercial spent nuclear fuel, but there is no definitive date by which a repository will be operational.  As a result, it was necessary to expand Susquehanna's on-site spent fuel storage capacity.  To support this expansion, PPL Susquehanna contracted for the design and construction of a spent fuel storage facility employing dry cask fuel storage technology.  The facility is modular, so that additional storage capacity can be added as needed.  The facility began receiving spent nuclear fuel in 1999.  PPL Susquehanna estimates, under current operating conditions, that there is sufficient storage capacity in the spent nuclear fuel pools and the on-site spent fuel storage facility at Susquehanna to accommodate spent fuel discharged through approximately 2017.  If necessary, the on-site spent fuel storage facility can be expanded, assuming appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained, such that, together, the spent fuel pools and the expanded dry fuel storage facility will accommodate all of the spent fuel expected to be discharged through the current licensed life of the plant.





Energy Marketing



PPL EnergyPlus sells the capacity and electricity produced by PPL Generation subsidiaries, and buys and sells purchased power, capacity, ancillary services, FTRs, natural gas, oil, uranium, emission allowances and RECs in competitive wholesale and competitive retail markets.



PPL EnergyPlus transacts in competitive retail energy markets, and buys and sells electricity and natural gas supply, to meet the diverse needs of business customers. PPL EnergyPlus sells retail electricity supply to business customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, Montana, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania and sells retail natural gas supply to business customers in Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. The company also offers electricity supply to select residential customers in Pennsylvania.  An affiliate of PPL EnergyPlus sells petroleum products to wholesalers and distributors in Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Virginia.  Although retail energy revenues continue to grow, the net margins related to these activities are not currently a significant component of PPL Energy Supply's margins.



Within the constraints of its hedging policy, PPL EnergyPlus actively manages its portfolios of energy and energy-related products to optimize their value and to limit exposure to price fluctuations.  See Note 19 to the Financial Statements for more information.



Competition



Since the early 1990s, there has been increased competition in U.S. energy markets because of federal and state competitive market initiatives.  Although some states, such as Pennsylvania and Montana, have created a competitive market for electricity generation, other states continue to consider different types of regulatory initiatives concerning competition in the




power and gas industries. Some states that were considering creating competitive markets have slowed their plans or postponed further consideration. In addition, states that have created competitive markets have, from time to time,considered new market rules and re-regulation measures that could result in more limited opportunities for competitive energy suppliers.  Interest in re-regulation, however, has slowed due to recent declining power prices.  As such, the markets in which PPL Energy Supply participates are highly competitive.



PPL Energy Supply faces competition in wholesale markets for available energy, capacity and ancillary services.  Competition is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, congestion along the power grid, subsidies provided by state and federal governments for new generation facilities, new market entrants, construction of new generating assets, technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors.  PPL Energy Supply primarily competes with other electricity suppliers based on its ability to aggregate generation supply at competitive prices from different sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and transmission from electric utilities and ISOs.  Competitors in wholesale power markets include regulated utilities, industrial companies, NUGs, competitive subsidiaries of regulated utilities and other energy marketers.  See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Supply Segment", "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview" and Notes 15 and 19 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the risks faced with respect to competitive energy markets.



Franchise and Licenses



See "Energy Marketing" above for a discussion of PPL EnergyPlus' licenses in various states.  PPL EnergyPlus also has an export license from the DOE to sell capacity and/or energy to electric utilities in Canada.



PPL Susquehanna operates Units 1 and 2 pursuant to NRC operating licenses that expire in 2042 for Unit 1 and in 2044 for Unit 2.



In 2008, a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary, PPL Bell Bend, LLC, submitted a COLA to the NRC for a new nuclear generating unit (Bell Bend) to be built adjacent to the Susquehanna plant.  Also in 2008, the COLA was formally docketed and accepted for review by the NRC.  PPL Bell Bend, LLC does not expect to complete the COLA review process with the NRC prior to 2016.  See Note 8 to Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL Holtwood operates the Holtwood hydroelectric generating plant pursuant to a FERC-granted license that expires in 2030.  In 2013, a 125 MW expansion project was placed in service.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.  PPL Holtwood operates the Wallenpaupack hydroelectric generating plant pursuant to a FERC-granted license that expires in 2044.



PPL Montana's 11 hydroelectric facilities and one storage reservoir in Montana are licensed by the FERC.  The Thompson Falls and Kerr licenses expire in 2025 and 2035, the licenses for the nine Missouri-Madison facilities expire in 2040, and the license for the Mystic facility expires in 2050.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the September 2013 agreement for the sale of the Montana hydroelectric facilities.  Also see Note 11 for information on a pending arbitration related to the conveyance price for the Kerr Dam.



In connection with the relicensing of these generating facilities, applicable law permits the FERC to relicense the original licensee or license a new licensee or allow the U.S. government to take over the facility.  If the original licensee is not relicensed, it is compensated for its net investment in the facility, not to exceed the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable damages to other property affected by the lack of relicensing.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the Kerr Dam license.



·Other Corporate Functions(PPL)



PPL Services provides corporate functions such as financial, legal, supply chain, human resources and information technology services.  Most of PPL Services' costs are charged directly to the respective PPL subsidiaries for the services provided or indirectly charged to applicable subsidiaries based on an average of the subsidiaries' relative invested capital, operation and maintenance expenses and number of employees.



PPL Capital Funding, PPL's financing subsidiary, provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries.  PPL's growth in rate-regulated businesses provides the organization with an enhanced corporate level financing alternative, through PPL Capital Funding, that further enables PPL to cost effectively support targeted credit profiles across all of PPL's rated companies.  As a result, PPL plans to further utilize PPL Capital Funding in future financings, in addition to continued direct financing by the operating companies.








Unlike PPL Services, PPL Capital Funding's costs are not generally charged to any PPL subsidiaries.  Costs are charged directly to PPL.  However, PPL Capital Funding participated significantly in the financing for the acquisitions of LKE and WPD Midlands and certain associated financing costs were charged directly to the Kentucky and U.K. Regulated segments.  The associated financing costs, as well as the financing costs associated with prior issuances of certain other PPL Capital Funding securities, have been and will continue to be assigned to the appropriate segments for purposes of PPL management's assessment of segment performance. The financing costs associated primarily with PPL Capital Funding's securities issuances in 2013 and beyond, with certain exceptions including the remarketing of the debt component of the Equity Units, have not been directly assigned or allocated to any segment.



(All Registrants)



SEASONALITY



The demand for and market prices of electricity and natural gas are affected by weather.  As a result, the Registrants' operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when more severe weather conditions such as heat waves or extreme winter weather make such fluctuations more pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the type and location of the facilities owned, the retail load served and the terms of contracts to purchase or sell electricity.  See "Financial Condition -  Environmental Matters" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information regarding climate change.



FINANCIAL CONDITION



See "Financial Condition" in Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this information.



CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS



See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"

for information concerning projected capital expenditure requirements for 2014 through 2018.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital expenditures from environmental matters.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS










EMPLOYEE RELATIONS



At December 31, 2013, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time employees.



PPL Energy Supply (a)4,912PPL Electric2,239LKEKU945LG&E999LKS1,446Total LKE3,390PPL Global (primarily WPD)6,309PPL Services and other1,258Total PPL18,108



(a)Includes labor union employees of mechanical contracting subsidiaries, whose numbers tend to fluctuate due to the nature of this business.



At December 31, 2013, the breakdown of the total workforce that is represented by labor unions was:Number of EmployeesPercent of Total WorkforcePPL9,71354%PPL Energy Supply3,06362%PPL Electric1,41963%LKE84325%LG&E70170%KU14215%



There are 4,016 employees of WPD who are members of labor unions (or 64% of PPL's U.K. workforce).  WPD recognizes four unions, the largest of which represents 40% of its union workforce.  WPD's Electricity Business Agreement, which covers 3,941 union employees, may be amended by agreement between WPD and the unions and can be terminated with 12 months' notice by either side.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



PPL's Internet website is www.pplweb.com.  Under the Investor heading of that website, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of the Registrants (including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(d) or 15(d)) free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC.  Additionally, the Registrants' filings are available at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.






