ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



(All Registrants)



PPL Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania,
is a utility holding company that was incorporated in 1994. PPL, through its regulated utility subsidiaries, delivers electricity
to customers in the U.K., Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee; delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky; and generates
electricity from power plants in Kentucky. In June 2014, PPL and PPL Energy Supply executed definitive agreements with affiliates
of Riverstone to combine their competitive power generation businesses into a new, stand-alone, publicly traded company named Talen
Energy. The transaction was completed on June 1, 2015. See "Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply" below for more information.



PPL's principal subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 are shown
below (* denotes a Registrant).



PPL Corporation*PPL Capital Funding●Provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiariesPPL Global●Engages in the regulated distribution of electricity in the U.K.LKE*PPL Electric*●Engages in the regulated transmission and distribution of electricity in PennsylvaniaLG&E*●Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas
        in KentuckyKU*●Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, primarily in KentuckyU.K.Regulated SegmentKentuckyRegulated SegmentPennsylvaniaRegulated Segment



In addition to PPL, the other Registrants included in this filing
are as follows.



PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, headquartered in
Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a direct wholly owned subsidiary of PPL incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1920 and a regulated public
utility that is an electricity transmission and distribution service provider in eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric
is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction
of the FERC under the Federal Power Act. PPL Electric delivers electricity in its Pennsylvania service area and provides electricity
supply to retail customers in that area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.



LG&E and KU Energy LLC,headquartered in Louisville,
Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL and a holding company that owns regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries,
LG&E and KU, which constitute substantially all of LKE's assets. LG&E and KU are engaged in the generation, transmission,
distribution and sale of electricity. LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas. LG&E and KU maintain
separate corporate identities and serve customers in Kentucky under their respective names. KU also serves customers in Virginia
under the Old Dominion Power name and in Tennessee under the KU name. LKE, formed in 2003, is the successor to a Kentucky entity
incorporated in 1989.



Louisville Gas and Electric Company,headquartered in
Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution
and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG&E is subject to regulation as a public utility
by the KPSC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act.
LG&E was incorporated in 1913.





Kentucky Utilities Company,headquartered in Lexington,
Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and
sale of electricity in Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee. KU is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC, the VSCC
and the TRA, and certain of its transmission and wholesale power activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the
Federal Power Act. KU serves its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name and its Kentucky and Tennessee customers
under the KU name. KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and in Virginia in 1991.



(PPL)



Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply



In recognition of the changes in recent years in the wholesale
power markets, PPL performed an in-depth analysis of its business mix to determine the best available opportunities to maximize
the value to shareowners of its competitive generation business. As a result, in June 2014, PPL and PPL Energy Supply executed
definitive agreements with affiliates of Riverstone to spin off PPL Energy Supply and immediately combine it with Riverstone's
competitive power generation businesses to form a new, stand-alone, publicly traded company named Talen Energy. The transaction
was subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals from the NRC, FERC, DOJ and PUC, all of
which were received by mid-April 2015. On April 29, 2015, PPL's Board of Directors declared the June 1, 2015 distribution to PPL's
shareowners of record on May 20, 2015 of a newly formed entity, Holdco, which at closing owned all of the membership interests
of PPL Energy Supply and all of the common stock of Talen Energy.



Immediately following the spinoff on June 1, 2015, Holdco merged
with a special purpose subsidiary of Talen Energy, with Holdco continuing as the surviving company to the merger and as a wholly
owned subsidiary of Talen Energy and the sole owner of PPL Energy Supply. Substantially contemporaneous with the spinoff and merger,
RJS Power was contributed by its owners to become a subsidiary of Talen Energy. PPL's shareowners received approximately 0.1249
shares of Talen Energy common stock for each share of PPL common stock they owned on May 20, 2015. Following completion of these
transactions, PPL shareowners owned 65% of Talen Energy and affiliates of Riverstone owned 35%. The spinoff had no effect on the
number of PPL common shares owned by PPL shareowners or the number of shares of PPL common stock outstanding. The transaction is
intended to be tax-free to PPL and its shareowners for U.S. federal income tax purposes.



PPL has no continuing ownership interest in, control of, or
affiliation with Talen Energy and Talen Energy Supply (formerly PPL Energy Supply).



See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



Acquisitions



On April 1, 2011, PPL, through an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary,
PPL WEM Limited, acquired all of the outstanding ordinary share capital of Central Networks East plc and Central Networks Limited,
the sole owner of Central Networks West plc, together with certain other related assets and liabilities (collectively referred
to as Central Networks and subsequently defined herein as WPD Midlands), from subsidiaries of E.ON AG. WPD Midlands operates two
regulated distribution networks in the Midlands area of England and is included in the U.K. Regulated segment.



Segment Information



(PPL)



PPL is organized into three reportable segments as depicted
in the chart above: U.K. Regulated, Kentucky Regulated, and Pennsylvania Regulated. The U.K. Regulated segment has no related Subsidiary
Registrants. PPL's other reportable segments primarily reflect the activities of its related Subsidiary Registrants, except that
the reportable segments are also allocated certain corporate level financing and other costs that are not included in the results
of the applicable Subsidiary Registrants. As a result of the June 1, 2015 spinoff of PPL Energy Supply, PPL no longer has a Supply
segment.







A comparison of PPL's three regulated segments is shown below:KentuckyPennsylvaniaU.K. RegulatedRegulatedRegulatedFor the year ended December 31, 2015:Operating Revenues (in billions)$2.4$3.1$2.1Net Income (in millions)$1,121$326$252Electricity delivered (GWh)75,90730,81436,984At December 31, 2015:Regulatory Asset Base (in billions) (a)$9.7$8.7$5.2Service area (in square miles)21,6009,40010,000End-users (in millions)7.81.31.4



(a)Represents RAV for U.K. Regulated, capitalization for Kentucky Regulated and rate base for Pennsylvania Regulated.



See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for additional financial
information about the segments.



(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)



PPL Electric has two operating segments that are aggregated
into a single reportable segment.  LKE, LG&E and KU each operate within a single operating segment.



·U.K. Regulated Segment(PPL)Consists of PPL Global which primarily includes WPD's regulated electricity distribution operations, the results of hedging the translation of WPD's earnings from British pound sterling into U.S. dollars, and certain costs, such as U.S. income taxes, administrative costs and allocated financing costs.



WPD, through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, operates four
of the 15 regulated distribution networks providing electricity service in the U.K. The number of network customers (end-users)
served by WPD totals 7.8 million across 21,600 square miles in south Wales and southwest and central England.



Revenues for the years ended December 31 are shown below.



201520142013Operating Revenues$2,410$2,621$2,403



The majority of WPD's operating
revenue is known as DUoS and is generated by providing regulated electricity distribution services to licensed third party energy
suppliers who pay WPD for the use of WPD's distribution network to transfer electricity to the suppliers' customers, the end-users.
Throughout the following discussion, the use of the term "customers" refers to the end-users of WPD's regulated distribution
networks.



Franchise and Licenses



The operations of WPD's principal subsidiaries, WPD (South West),
WPD (South Wales), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands), are regulated by Ofgem under the direction of the Gas and Electricity
Markets Authority. The Electricity Act 1989 provides the fundamental framework of electricity companies and established licenses
that require each of the DNOs to develop, maintain and operate efficient distribution networks. WPD operates under a regulatory
year that begins April 1 and ends March 31 of each year.



WPD is authorized by Ofgem to provide electricity distribution
services within its concession areas and service territories, subject to certain conditions and obligations. For instance, WPD
is subject to Ofgem regulation with respect to the regulated revenue it can earn and the quality of service it must provide, and
WPD can be fined or have its licenses revoked if it does not meet the mandated standard of service.



Ofgem has formal powers to propose modifications to each distribution
license. In January 2014, Ofgem and WPD agreed to a reduction of £5 per residential end-user in the 2014/15 regulatory year
to be recovered in the 2016/2017 regulatory year. See "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Distribution Revenue Reduction" for additional information. Ofgem has made
license changes as part of the RIIO-ED1 process discussed below.





Competition



Although WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the
U.K., it currently faces little competition with respect to end-users connected to its network. WPD's four distribution businesses
are, therefore, regulated monopolies which operate under regulatory price controls.



Revenue and Regulation



Ofgem has adopted a price control mechanism that establishes
the amount of base demand revenue WPD can earn, subject to certain true-ups, and provides for an increase or reduction in revenues
based on incentives or penalties for exceeding or underperforming relative to pre-established targets. WPD's allowed revenue primarily
includes base demand revenue, incentive adjustments, adjustments for over or under-recovery and adjustments related to the DPCR4
line loss close out.



WPD is currently operating under the eight-year price control
period of RIIO-ED1, which commenced on April 1, 2015. The RIIO framework is intended to:

·encourage DNOs to deliver safe, reliable and sustainable network service at long-term value to customers;

·enable DNOs to finance the required investment in a timely and efficient way;

·remunerate DNOs according to their delivery for customers;

·increase emphasis on outputs and incentives;

·enhance stakeholder engagement including network customers;

·provide a stronger incentive framework to encourage more efficient investment and innovation; and

·replace the current Low Carbon Network Fund to continue to stimulate innovation.



Additionally, from a financial perspective the RIIO framework:

·regulates revenues for the DNOs in real terms using 2012/2013 prices;

·inflates RAV (therefore allowed revenues) and other revenue components using the RPI since March 31, 2013;

·splits the recovery of Totex between immediate recovery (called "fast pot") and deferred recovery as an addition
to the RAV (called "slow pot");

·provides DNOs with a pass-through for costs the DNOs have no control over (i.e., Ofgem fees, National Grid transmission charges,
property taxes and corporate income taxes);

·extends the recovery period of depreciation of RAV additions after April 1, 2015 from a 20 year life as used under DPCR5 to
45 years, with a transitional arrangement that will gradually increase the asset life for new additions over the price control
period resulting in an average life of approximately 35 years for RAV additions during RIIO-ED1. The RAV as of March 31, 2015 will
continue to be depreciated over 20 years. The asset lives used to determine depreciation expense for U.S. GAAP purposes are not
the same as those used for the depreciation of the RAV in setting revenues, and as such vary by asset type and are based on the
expected useful lives of the assets;

·provides the DNOs the ability to be fast-tracked through the regulatory approval process, providing a fast-track incentive
of 2.5% of Totex during the 8-year price control period for successful DNOs; and

·maintains an incentive scheme for DNOs to be rewarded or penalized for performance in the areas of reliability and customer
satisfaction, but places a maximum cap on the amount of incentive revenues that can be earned by a DNO.



The key components of WPD's four RIIO-ED1 business plans accepted
by Ofgem are:

·all four DNO business plans were accepted for fast-track status (fast-track incentive is worth approximately $43 million annually
for WPD assuming a $1.60/£ foreign currency exchange rate);

·WPD received a higher level of cost savings retention, which was established at 70% for WPD compared to approximately 55% for
slow-tracked DNOs;

·a cost of debt recovery comprised of a 10-year trailing average debt allowance, to be adjusted annually, compared to a transition
to a 20-year trailing average for the slow tracked DNOs applied to 65% of RAV;

·a return on regulatory equity (RORE) allowance with an equity ratio of 35% of RAV and a cost of equity rate of 6.4% compared
to 6.0% for slow-tracked DNOs;

·a Totex split of 80% slow pot and 20% fast pot;

·recovery of approximately 80% of pension deficit funding for certain of WPD's defined benefit pension plans; and

·incentive targets that are significantly more stringent than those set under DPCR5, thus reducing the expected incentive revenues
WPD can earn in RIIO-ED1 compared to DPCR5.



WPD's combined business plans include funding for total expenditures
of approximately $20.4 billion over the eight-year period (assuming a $1.60/£ foreign currency exchange rate), broken down
as follows:



·Totex - $13.5 billion ($10.8 billion additions to RAV; $2.7 billion fast pot);

·Pension deficit funding - $2.0 billion;

·Cost of debt recovery - $1.6 billion;

·Property taxes, Ofgem fees and National Grid transmissions charges - $2.6 billion; and

·Corporate income taxes recovery - $700 million.



The U.K. regulatory structure is an incentive-based structure
in contrast to the typical U.S. regulatory structure which operates on a cost-recovery model. The base demand revenue that a DNO
can earn in each year of the current price control period is the sum of:

·a return on capital from RAV;

·a return of capital from RAV (i.e. depreciation);

·the fast pot recovery;

·pension deficit funding;

·an allowance for cash taxes paid less a potential reduction for tax benefits from excess leverage if a DNO is levered more
than 65% Debt/RAV;

·certain pass-through costs over which the DNO has no control;

·certain legacy price control adjustments from preceding price control periods, including the information quality incentive
(also known as the rolling RAV incentive);

·fast track incentive - as WPD's four DNOs were fast-tracked through the price control review process for RIIO-ED1, their base
demand revenue also includes the fast-track incentive discussed above;

·profiling adjustments - these adjustments do not affect the total base demand revenue in real terms over the eight-year price
control period, but change the year in which the revenue is earned;

·adjustments from the Annual Iteration Process (AIP), discussed further below; and

·adjustments for inflation true-ups, discussed further below.



In addition to base demand revenue, WPD's allowed revenue primarily
includes:

·an increase or reduction in revenues based on incentives or penalties for actual performance against pre-established targets;

·adjustments for over- or under-recovery of allowed revenue; and

·a reduction in revenue related to the DPCR4 line loss close out.



During DPCR5, the prior price control review period, WPD's total
base demand revenue for the five-year period was profiled in a manner that resulted in a weighted-average increase of about 5.5%
per year for all four DNOs. In the first year of RIIO-ED1, base demand revenue decreased by about 11.8% primarily due to a change
in the profiling approach and a lower weighted-average cost of capital. For each regulatory year thereafter for the remainder of
RIIO-ED1, base demand revenue will increase by approximately 1% per annum before inflation.



As the regulatory model is incentive based rather than a cost
recovery model, WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP. Therefore,
the accounting treatment of adjustments to base demand revenue and/or allowed revenue is evaluated based on revenue recognition
and contingency accounting guidance.



Base Demand Revenue True-up Mechanisms

Unlike prior price control reviews, base demand revenue under
RIIO-ED1 will be adjusted during the price control period. The most significant of those adjustments are:



·Inflation True-Up - The base demand revenue for the RIIO-ED1 period was set in 2012/13 prices. Therefore an inflation factor
as determined by forecasted RPI, provided by HM Treasury, is applied to base demand revenue. Forecasted RPI is trued up to actuals
and affects future base demand revenue two regulatory years later. This revenue change is called the "TRU" adjustment.
The projected TRU for the 2015/16 regulatory year is a $45 million reduction to revenue and will reduce base demand revenue in
calendar years 2017 and 2018 by $30 million and $15 million, respectively.



·Annual Iteration Process - The RIIO-ED1 price control period also includes an Annual Iteration Process (AIP). This will allow
future base demand revenues agreed with the regulator as part of the price control review to be updated during the price control
period for financial adjustments including tax, pensions and cost of debt, legacy price control adjustments from preceding price
control periods and adjustments relating to actual and allowed total expenditure together with the Totex Incentive Mechanism (TIM).
Under the TIM, WPD's DNOs are able to retain 70% of any amounts not spent against the RIIO-ED1 plan and bear 70% of any over-spends.
The AIP calculates an



incremental change to base demand revenue, known as
the "MOD" adjustment. The MOD provided by Ofgem in November 2016 will include the TIM for the 2015/16 regulatory year
as well as the cost of debt calculation based on the 10-year trailing average to October 2016. This projected MOD of $11 million
will reduce base demand revenue for calendar years 2017 and 2018 by $5 million and $6 million, respectively.



As both MOD and TRU are changes to future base demand revenues
as determined by Ofgem, under applicable GAAP, liabilities for these adjustments have not been recorded. PPL's projected earnings
per share growth rate through 2017 includes both the estimated TRU for regulatory year 2015/16 and MOD.



Allowed Revenue Components

In addition to base demand revenue, certain other items are
added or subtracted to arrive at allowed revenue. The most significant of these are discussed below.



Incentives - Ofgem has established incentive mechanisms to provide
significant opportunities to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability and customer service. Some of
the more significant incentive mechanisms which may affect allowed revenue include:



·Interruptions Incentive Scheme (IIS) - This incentive has two major components: (1) Customer interruptions (CIs) and (2) Customer
minutes lost (CMLs), and both are designed to incentivize the DNOs to invest and operate their networks to manage and reduce both
the frequency and duration of power outages. The IIS target under RIIO-ED1 is divided into interruptions caused by planned and
unplanned work. The target for planned work will be calculated as the annual average level of planned interruptions and minutes
lost over a previous three year period. The target for unplanned interruptions for the first year of RIIO-ED1 is specified in the
DNOs license and targets for both the CIs and CMLs become more demanding each year.



·In addition to the IIS, the broad measure of customer service is enhanced in RIIO-ED1. This broad measure encompasses:

·customer satisfaction in supply interruptions, connections and general inquiries;

·complaints;

·stakeholder engagement; and

·delivery of social obligations.



The following table shows the amount of incentive revenue, primarily
from IIS, which WPD has earned during DPCR5:



Incentive EarnedRegulatory Year Ended IncentiveRegulatory Year Ended(in millions)Included in RevenueMarch 2011$30March 2013March 201283March 2014March 2013104March 2015March 2014125March 2016March 2015136March 2017



Based on applicable GAAP, incentive revenues are not recorded
as assets and are included in revenues when they are billed to customers.



DPCR4 Line Loss Adjustment

For regulatory years 2015/16 through 2018/19 allowed revenue
will also be reduced to reflect Ofgem's final decision on the DPCR4 line loss incentives and penalties mechanism. WPD has a liability
recorded related to this future revenue reduction and, therefore, this will not impact future earnings. See Note 6 to the Financial
Statements for additional information.



Correction Factor

During the price control period, WPD's revenue is decoupled
from volume and WPD sets its tariffs to recover allowed revenue. However, in any fiscal period, WPD's revenue could be negatively
affected if its tariffs and the volume delivered do not fully recover the allowed revenue for a particular period. Conversely,
WPD could also over-recover revenue. Over and under-recoveries are subtracted from or added to allowed revenue in future years,
known as the "Correction Factor" or "K-factor." Over and under-recovered amounts arising from 2014/15 onwards
and refunded/recovered under RIIO-ED1 will be refunded/recovered on a two year lag (previously one year). Therefore the 2014/15
over/under-recovery adjustment will occur in 2016/17. In 2016/17 under this mechanism, WPD will recover the £5 per residential
network customer reduction



given through reduced tariffs in 2014/15 (approximately $56
million) as that amount is currently considered an under-recovery.



Historically, tariffs have been set a minimum of three months
prior to the beginning of the regulatory year (April 1). In February 2015, Ofgem determined that, beginning for the 2017/18 regulatory
year, tariffs would be established a minimum of fifteen months in advance. Therefore, in December 2015, WPD was required to establish
tariffs for 2016/17 and 2017/18. This change will potentially increase volatility in future revenue forecasts due to the need to
forecast components of allowed revenue including MOD, TRU, K-factor and incentive revenues.



Under applicable GAAP, WPD does not record a receivable for
under-recoveries, but does record a liability for over-recoveries. K-factor is measured as of the end of the regulatory year, March
31. While WPD estimates over-recoveries and records a liability when it is probable that there will be an over-recovered position
at the end of the regulatory-year, weather-related volume changes and other factors such as sales mix can affect the over or under-recovery
between the end of PPL's calendar year and the end of the regulatory year.



See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to U.K. Regulated
Segment" for additional information on the risks associated with the U.K. Regulated Segment.



Customers



WPD provides regulated electricity distribution services to
licensed third party energy suppliers (its customers) who use WPD's networks to transfer electricity to their customers, the end-users.
WPD bills the energy supplier for this service and the supplier is responsible for billing the end-users. Ofgem requires that all
licensed electricity distributors and suppliers become parties to the Distribution Connection and Use of System Agreement. This
agreement specifies how creditworthiness will be determined and, as a result, whether the supplier needs to collateralize its payment
obligations.



·Kentucky Regulated Segment(PPL)Consists of the operations of LKE, which owns and operates regulated public utilities engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas, representing primarily the activities of LG&E and KU.  In addition, certain financing costs are allocated to the Kentucky Regulated segment.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



LG&E and KU, direct subsidiaries of LKE, are engaged in
the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, Virginia and Tennessee.
LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky. LG&E provides electric service to approximately
403,000 customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky, covering approximately 700 square miles in nine counties and provides
natural gas service to approximately 322,000 customers in its electric service area and eight additional counties in Kentucky.
KU provides electric service to approximately 518,000 customers in 77 counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky, approximately
28,000 customers in five counties in southwestern Virginia, and fewer than ten customers in Tennessee, covering approximately 4,800
non-contiguous square miles. KU also sells wholesale electricity to 11 municipalities in Kentucky under load following contracts.
In Virginia, KU operates under the name Old Dominion Power Company.



Details of operating revenues by customer class for the years
ended December 31 are shown below.



201520142013% of% of% ofRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueLKECommercial$81626$81526$77026Industrial628206272058720Residential1,245401,281401,20540Retail - other267927992609Wholesale - municipal114410931104Wholesale - other (a)451572441Total$3,115100$3,168100$2,976100







201520142013% of% of% ofRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueLG&ECommercial$43630$43328$40529Industrial199141941318613Residential633446504361444Retail - other117813081198Wholesale - other (a) (b)5941268866Total$1,444100$1,533100$1,410100KUCommercial$38022$38222$36522Industrial429254332540125Residential612356313659136Retail - other150914991419Wholesale - municipal114710961107Wholesale - other (a) (b)432332271Total$1,728100$1,737100$1,635100



(a)Includes wholesale power and transmission revenues.

(b)Includes intercompany power sales and transmission revenues, which are eliminated upon consolidation at LKE.



Franchises and Licenses



LG&E and KU provide electricity delivery service, and LG&E
provides natural gas distribution service, in their respective service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory
service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities.



Competition



There are currently no other electric public utilities operating
within the electric service areas of LKE. From time to time, bills are introduced into the Kentucky General Assembly which seek
to authorize, promote or mandate increased distributed generation, customer choice or other developments. Neither the Kentucky
General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky.
The nature or timing of legislative or regulatory actions, if any, regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LKE, which
may be significant, cannot currently be predicted. Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation that
implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation. KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated.



Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane
and other fuels provide indirect competition for natural gas revenues of LKE. Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to
certain large end-users. LG&E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural
gas as a commodity; therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact profitability.
However, some large industrial and commercial customers may physically bypass LG&E's facilities and seek delivery service directly
from interstate pipelines or other natural gas distribution systems.



Power Supply



At December 31, 2015, LKE owned, controlled or had a minority
ownership interest in generating capacity (summer rating) of 7,997 MW, of which 2,919 MW related to LG&E and 5,078 MW
related to KU, in Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio. See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list
of LKE's generating facilities.



The system capacity of LKE's owned or controlled generation
is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically
to reflect changes in circumstances.



During 2015, LKE's Kentucky power plants generated the following
amounts of electricity.



GWhFuel SourceLKELG&EKUCoal (a)29,60912,04917,560Oil / Gas4,7921,2583,534Hydro37227498Total (b)34,77313,58121,192





(a)Includes 762 GWh of power generated by and purchased from OVEC for LKE, 527 GWh for LG&E and 235 GWh for KU.

(b)This generation represents a 2.4% decrease for LKE, a 13.7% decrease for LG&E and a 6.6% increase for KU from 2014 output.



A majority of LG&E's and KU's generated electricity was
used to supply its retail and municipal customer base.



LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with
the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail and municipal customers. When LG&E has excess generation capacity after
serving its own retail customers and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG&E. When
KU has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail and municipal customers and its generation cost is lower than that
of LG&E, LG&E purchases electricity from KU.



See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment"
for additional information regarding LG&E's and KU's construction of a solar generating facility at the E.W. Brown generating
site. As a result of environmental requirements, KU retired two coal-fired units, with a combined summer capacity rating of 161
MW, at the Green River plant in September 2015. LG&E retired a 240 MW coal-fired unit in March 2015 and two additional coal-fired
units, with a combined summer capacity rating of 323 MW, in June 2015 at the Cane Run plant. KU retired a 71 MW coal-fired unit
at the Tyrone plant in 2013.



Fuel Supply



Coal is expected to be the predominant fuel used by LG&E
and KU for generation for the foreseeable future. Due to Cane Run Unit 7 being placed into operation during 2015, natural gas will
play a more significant role going forward. The natural gas for this generating unit is purchased using contractual arrangements
separate from LG&E's natural gas distribution operations. Natural gas and oil will continue to be used for intermediate and
peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers.



Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary
to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units. Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time
by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating
difficulties.



LG&E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with
various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2022 and normally augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases,
as needed.



For their existing units, LG&E and KU expect for the foreseeable
future to purchase most of their coal from western Kentucky, southern Indiana and southern Illinois. LG&E and KU continue to
purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at Trimble County Unit 2. Coal is delivered
to the generating plants by barge, truck and rail.



To enhance the reliability of natural gas supply, LG&E and
KU have secured, firm long-term pipeline capacity on the interstate pipeline serving Cane Run Unit 7 and six simple cycle combustion
turbine units located at the Trimble County site through 2024. LG&E has also secured long-term firm pipeline capacity on an
interstate pipeline for an additional simple cycle gas turbine under a power purchase agreement for the summer months through October
2018. For the seven simple cycle combustion turbines at Brown, no firm long-term pipeline capacity has been purchased due to the
facility being interconnected to multiple pipelines and some of the units having dual fuel capability.



Natural gas purchases for these units currently take place
as needed from pipelines but LG&E and KU may seek to augment these purchases with longer term agreements.



(PPL, LKE and LG&E)



Natural Gas Distribution Supply



Five underground natural gas storage fields, with a current
working natural gas capacity of approximately 15 Bcf, are used in providing natural gas service to LG&E's firm sales customers.
By using natural gas storage facilities, LG&E avoids the costs typically associated with more expensive pipeline transportation
capacity to serve peak winter heating loads. Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal during the following
winter heating season. Without this storage capacity, LG&E would be required to purchase additional natural gas and pipeline
transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases and the prices for natural gas supply and transportation
services are typically at their highest. Several suppliers under contracts of varying duration provide competitively priced natural
gas. At December 31, 2015, LG&E had 12 Bcf of natural gas stored underground with a carrying value of $42 million.





LG&E has a portfolio of supply arrangements of varying terms
with a number of suppliers designed to meet its firm sales obligations. These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions
that are market-responsive. In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability
and flexibility necessary to serve LG&E's natural gas customers.



LG&E purchases natural gas supply transportation services
from two pipelines. LG&E has contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG&E between 2018 and 2021.
Total winter season capacity under these contracts is 184,900 MMBtu/day and summer season capacity is 60,000 MMBtu/day. With this
same pipeline, LG&E has two contracts with a total capacity of 10,000 MMBtu/day, during the winter season and 28,000 MMBtu/day,
during the summer season; both contracts have been terminated effective October 31, 2016. With this same pipeline, LG&E also
has a new contract for pipeline capacity commencing June 2016 through October 31, 2026, in the amount of 60,000 MMBtu/day. Additionally,
LG&E has a contract with the same pipeline for the month of January 2016 with a total capacity of 30,000 MMBtu/day. LG&E
has a single contract with a second pipeline with a total capacity of 20,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons
that expires October 31, 2018.



LG&E expects to purchase natural gas supplies for its gas
distribution operations from onshore producing regions in South Texas, East Texas, North Louisiana and Arkansas, as well as gas
originating in the Rockies, Marcellus and Utica production areas.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



Transmission



LG&E and KU contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority
to act as their transmission reliability coordinator and contract with TranServ International, Inc. to act as their independent
transmission operator.



During 2013 through 2015, LG&E and KU have submitted various
compliance filings to the FERC reflecting their participation with other utilities in the Southeastern Regional Transmission Planning
group relating to certain FERC Order 1000 requirements.  FERC Order 1000, issued in July 2011, establishes certain procedural
and substantive requirements relating to participation, cost allocation and non-incumbent developer aspects of regional and inter-regional
electric transmission planning activities. FERC approvals have been received for all but one remaining of such compliance filings.



Rates



LG&E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and the
FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, the FERC, the VSCC and the TRA. LG&E and KU operate under a FERC-approved
open access transmission tariff (OATT).



LG&E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based
on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and short-term debt) including adjustments for certain net investments
and costs recovered separately through other means. As such, LG&E and KU generally earn a return on regulatory assets in Kentucky.



KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on
rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions). All regulatory assets and
liabilities, except the levelized fuel factor, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia
base rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.



KU's Tennessee base rates are established through approval of
the TRA and generally will follow the cost of providing service in Kentucky.



KU's rates to 11 municipal customers for wholesale power requirements
are calculated based on annual updates to a formula rate that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital
less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions). All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base
utilized in the development of municipal rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets. In April 2014, nine municipalities
submitted notices of termination, under the original notice period provisions, to cease taking power under the wholesale requirements
contracts. Such terminations are to be effective in 2019, except in the case of one municipality with a 2017 effective date.



See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information
on cost recovery mechanisms.







·Pennsylvania Regulated Segment(PPL)Consists of PPL Electric, a regulated public utility engaged in the distribution and transmission of electricity.



(PPL and PPL Electric)



PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million
customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central Pennsylvania. PPL Electric also provides electricity
supply to retail customers in this area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.



Details of revenues by customer class for the years ended December
31 are shown below.



201520142013Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueDistributionResidential$1,33863$1,28563$1,21565Industrial583523523Commercial377183671836319Other (a)(44)(2)5(11)Transmission395183351625113Total$2,124100$2,044100$1,870100



(a)Includes regulatory over- or under-recovery reconciliation mechanisms, pole attachment revenues and street lighting, offset
by contra revenue associated with the network integration transmission service expense.



Franchise, Licenses and Other Regulations



PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility
service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric
and companies which it has succeeded and as a result of certification by the PUC. PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the
streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions. In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance,
resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.



Competition



Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service area. Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face
competition in its electricity distribution business. Pursuant to the Customer Choice Act, generation of electricity is a competitive
business in Pennsylvania, and PPL Electric does not own or operate any generation facilities.



The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved
PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent
PJM transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM.



Rates and Regulation



Transmission



PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which
operates the electricity transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S.



PJM serves as a FERC-approved Regional Transmission Operator
(RTO) to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves. In addition to operating the electricity transmission
network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services. A primary objective of any RTO is to
separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same
markets. Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the
RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities. Certain types of transmission investment are subject to competitive
processes outlined in the PJM tariff.





As a transmission owner, PPL Electric's transmission revenues
are recovered through PJM in accordance with a FERC approved tariff that allows recovery of incurred transmission costs, a return
on transmission-related plant and an automatic annual update based on a formula rate mechanism. As a PLR, PPL Electric also purchases
transmission services from PJM. See "PLR" below.



See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information
on rate mechanisms.



Distribution



PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based
on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus a cash working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous
additions and deductions). All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base; therefore, no return
is earned on the related assets unless specifically provided for by the PUC. Currently, PPL Electric's Smart Meter rider and the
DSIC are the only riders earning a return. Certain operating expenses are also included in PPL Electric's distribution base rates
including wages and benefits, other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation and taxes.



Pennsylvania's Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard (AEPS)
requires electricity distribution companies and electricity generation suppliers to obtain from alternative energy resources a
portion of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania. Under the default service procurement plans approved by the
PUC, PPL Electric purchases all of the alternative energy generation supply it needs to comply with the AEPS.



Act 129 created an energy efficiency and conservation program,
a demand side management program, smart metering technology requirements, new PLR generation supply procurement rules, remedies
for market misconduct and changes to the existing AEPS.



Act 11 authorizes the PUC to approve two specific ratemaking
mechanisms: the use of a fully projected future test year in base rate proceedings and, subject to certain conditions, the use
of a DSIC. Such alternative ratemaking procedures and mechanisms provide opportunity for accelerated cost-recovery and, therefore,
are important to PPL Electric as it is in a period of significant capital investment to maintain and enhance the reliability of
its delivery system, including the replacement of aging assets. In January 2013, PPL Electric filed a petition requesting permission
to establish a DSIC. In May 2013, the PUC approved PPL Electric's proposed DSIC with an initial rate effective July 1, 2013, subject
to refund after hearings. The PUC also assigned four technical recovery calculation issues to the Office of Administrative Law
Judge for hearing and preparation of a recommended decision. In November 2015, the PUC issued an opinion and order approving PPL
Electric's Petition with minor modifications.



See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities"
in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding Act 129, Act 11 and other legislative and regulatory
impacts.



PLR



The Customer Choice Act requires Electric Distribution Companies
(EDCs), including PPL Electric, or an alternative supplier approved by the PUC to act as a PLR of electricity supply for customers
who do not choose to shop for supply with a competitive supplier and provides that electricity supply costs will be recovered by
the PLR pursuant to PUC regulations. As of December 31, 2015, the following percentages of PPL Electric's customer load were provided
by competitive suppliers: 50% of residential, 85% of small commercial and industrial and 99% of large commercial and industrial
customers. The PUC continues to be interested in expanding the competitive market for electricity. See "Regulatory Matters
- Pennsylvania Activities - Act 129" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL Electric's cost of electricity generation is based on a
competitive solicitation process. The PUC approved PPL Electric's default service plan for the period June 2015 through May 2017,
which includes 4 solicitations for electricity supply held in April and October, annually. Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric
contracts for all of the electricity supply for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, large commercial
and large industrial customers who elect to take that service from PPL Electric. These solicitations include a mix of 6- and 12-month
fixed-price load-following contracts for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, and 12-month real-time pricing
contracts for large commercial and large industrial customers to fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide customer electricity
supply as a PLR.



Numerous alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation
supply in PPL Electric's service territory. Since the cost of generation supply is a pass-through cost for PPL Electric, its financial
results are not impacted if its customers purchase



electricity supply from these alternative suppliers. See "Energy
Purchase Commitments" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding PPL Electric's solicitations.



See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities - Rate
Case Proceedings" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for information regarding PPL Electric's 2015 rate case proceedings.



·Other Corporate Functions(PPL)



PPL Services provides PPL subsidiaries with administrative,
management and support services.



PPL EU Services, formed in 2015, is included within the Pennsylvania
Regulated Segment and provides the majority of financial, supply chain, human resources and facilities management services to PPL
Electric. Significant portions of the various corporate functions previously within PPL Services were transferred to PPL EU Services
in 2015. Certain other functions are to be transferred to PPL EU Services as the transition services agreements with Talen Energy
expire. PPL Services will continue to provide certain limited corporate functions. For both service companies, the costs of these
services are charged directly to the respective recipients for the services provided or indirectly charged to applicable recipients
based on an average of the recipients' relative invested capital, operation and maintenance expenses and number of employees.



PPL Capital Funding, PPL's financing subsidiary, provides financing
for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries. PPL's growth in rate-regulated businesses provides the organization with an
enhanced corporate level financing alternative, through PPL Capital Funding, that enables PPL to cost effectively support targeted
credit profiles across all of PPL's rated companies. As a result, PPL plans to further utilize PPL Capital Funding in future financings,
in addition to continued direct financing by the operating companies.



Unlike PPL Services and PPL EU Services, PPL Capital Funding's
costs are not generally charged to PPL subsidiaries. Costs are charged directly to PPL. However, PPL Capital Funding participated
significantly in the financing for the acquisitions of LKE and WPD Midlands and certain associated financing costs were allocated
to the Kentucky Regulated and U.K. Regulated segments. The associated financing costs, as well as the financing costs associated
with prior issuances of certain other PPL Capital Funding securities, have been assigned to the appropriate segments for purposes
of PPL management's assessment of segment performance. The financing costs associated primarily with PPL Capital Funding's securities
issuances in 2013 and beyond, with certain exceptions, have not been directly assigned or allocated to any segment.



(All Registrants)



SEASONALITY



The demand for and market prices of electricity and natural
gas are affected by weather. As a result, the Registrants' operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal
basis, especially when more severe weather conditions such as heat waves or extreme winter weather make such fluctuations more
pronounced. The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the type and location of the facilities owned. See "Financial
Condition - Environmental Matters" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" for additional information regarding climate change.



FINANCIAL CONDITION



See "Financial Condition" in "Item 7. Combined
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this information.



CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS



See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources
- Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" for information concerning projected capital expenditure requirements for 2016 through
2020. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital expenditures
from environmental matters.







ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS





EMPLOYEE RELATIONS



At December 31, 2015, PPL and its subsidiaries had the
following full-time employees and employees represented by labor unions.



Total Full-TimeNumber of  UnionPercentage of TotalEmployeesEmployeesWorkforcePPL  (a)12,7996,37650%PPL Electric1,9351,22763%LKE3,48481223%LG&E1,00168869%KU92612413%



(a)Includes 4,085 employees of WPD who are members of labor unions (or 62% of PPL's U.K. workforce). WPD recognizes four unions,
the largest of which represents 41% of its union workforce. WPD's Electricity Business Agreement, which covers 4,015 union employees,
may be amended by agreement between WPD and the unions and can be terminated with 12 months' notice by either side.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



PPL's Internet website is www.pplweb.com. Under the Investors
heading of that website, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of the Registrants (including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(d)
or 15(d)) free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Additionally, the Registrants' filings are
available at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549,
or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.



