ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General(All Registrants)

PPL Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is an energy and utility holding company that was incorporated in 1994.  Through its subsidiaries, PPL delivers electricity to customers in the U.K., Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee; delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky; generates electricity from power plants in the northeastern, northwestern and southeastern U.S.; and markets wholesale or retail energy primarily in the northeastern and northwestern portions of the U.S.  Beginning in 2010, PPL expanded the rate regulated portion of its business, principally through the 2010 acquisition of LKE and the 2011 acquisition of WPD Midlands.  In addition, in June 2014, PPL and PPL Energy Supply executed definitive agreements with affiliates of Riverstone to combine their competitive power generation businesses into a new, stand-alone, publicly traded company named Talen Energy.  See "Anticipated Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply" below for more information.



PPL's principal subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 are shown below (* denotes a Registrant).



PPL Corporation*PPL Capital FundingPPL Global● Engages in the regulated distribution of electricity in the U.K.LKE*PPL Electric*●Engages in the regulated transmission and distribution of electricity in PennsylvaniaPPL Energy Supply*LG&E*●Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, and distribution and sale of natural gas in KentuckyKU*●Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, primarily in KentuckyPPL EnergyPlus●Performs energy marketing and trading activities●Purchases fuelPPL Generation●Engages in the competitive generation of electricity, primarily in Pennsylvania and MontanaU.K. RegulatedSegmentKentucky RegulatedSegmentPennsylvania Regulated SegmentSupplySegment



In addition to PPL Corporation, the other Registrants included in this filing are:

PPL Energy Supply, LLC, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PPL formed in 2000 and is an energy company that through its principal subsidiaries is primarily engaged in the competitive generation and marketing of electricity in the northeastern U.S.  PPL Energy Supply's principal subsidiaries are PPL EnergyPlus, its marketing and trading subsidiary, and PPL Generation, the owner of its generating facilities in Pennsylvania and Montana.  As noted above, in June 2014, PPL and PPL Energy Supply executed definitive agreements with affiliates of Riverstone to combine their competitive power generation businesses into a new, stand-alone, publicly traded company named Talen Energy.  See "Anticipated Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply" below for more information.PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a direct wholly owned subsidiary of PPL incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1920 and a regulated public utility that is an electricity transmission and distribution service provider in eastern and central Pennsylvania.  PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act.










LG&E and KU Energy LLC,headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL since 2010 and a holding company that owns regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG&E and KU, which constitute substantially all of LKE's assets.  LG&E and KU are engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity.  LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas.  LG&E and KU maintain their separate corporate identities and serve customers in Kentucky under their respective names.  KU also serves customers in Virginia under the Old Dominion Power name and in Tennessee under the KU name.  LKE, formed in 2003, is the successor to a Kentucky entity incorporated in 1989.



Louisville Gas and Electric Company,headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky.  LG&E is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act.  LG&E was incorporated in 1913.



Kentucky Utilities Company,headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, is a wholly owned subsidiary of LKE and a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee.  KU is subject to regulation as a public utility by the KPSC, the VSCC and the TRA, and certain of its transmission and wholesale power activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act.  KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and in Virginia in 1991.  KU serves its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name and its Kentucky and Tennessee customers under the KU name.



(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)



Anticipated Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply





On December 18, 2014, the FERC issued a final order approving, subject to certain market power mitigation requirements, the combination of the competitive generation assets to form Talen Energy.  On January 27, 2015, PPL and an affiliate of RJS Power filed a joint response with the FERC accepting additional market power mitigation measures required for the FERC's approval.  PPL and RJS Power originally proposed divesting either of two groups of assets each having approximately 1,300 MW of generating capacity.  PPL and RJS Power have agreed that within 12 months after closing of the transaction, Talen Energy will divest generating assets in one of the groups (from PPL Energy Supply's existing portfolio, this includes either the Holtwood and Wallenpaupack hydroelectric facilities or the Ironwood facility), and limit PJM energy market offers from assets it would retain in the other group to cost-based offers.

The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2015.  Talen Energy will own and operate a diverse mix of approximately 14,000 MW (after divestitures to meet FERC market power standards) of generating capacity in certain U.S. competitive energy markets primarily in PJM and ERCOT.










Following the transaction, PPL's focus will be on its regulated utility businesses in the U.K., Kentucky and Pennsylvania, serving more than 10 million customers.  PPL intends to maintain a strong balance sheet and manage its finances consistent with maintaining investment grade credit ratings and providing a competitive total shareowner return, including an attractive dividend.  Excluding costs required to provide transition services to Talen Energy and following the spinoff transaction, PPL expects to reduce annual ongoing corporate support costs by approximately $75 million.



See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



Montana Hydro Sale



In November 2014, PPL Montana completed the sale to NorthWestern of 633 MW of hydroelectric generating facilities located in Montana for approximately $900 million in cash.  The sale included 11 hydroelectric generating facilities and related assets.



See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



Distribution of PPL Global(PPL Energy Supply)



In January 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its entire membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding (the parent holding company of PPL Energy Supply and PPL Global with no other material operations), to better align PPL's organizational structure with the manner in which it manages these businesses and reports segment information in its consolidated financial statements.  The distribution separated the U.S.-based competitive energy marketing and supply business from the U.K.-based regulated electricity distribution business.



Acquisitions



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



On November 1, 2010, PPL acquired all of the limited liability company interests of E.ON U.S. LLC from a wholly owned subsidiary of E.ON AG.  Upon completion of the acquisition, E.ON U.S. LLC was renamed LG&E and KU Energy LLC.



(PPL)



On April 1, 2011, PPL, through an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, PPL WEM, acquired all of the outstanding ordinary share capital of Central Networks East plc and Central Networks Limited, the sole owner of Central Networks West plc, together with certain other related assets and liabilities (collectively referred to as Central Networks and subsequently defined herein as WPD Midlands), from subsidiaries of E.ON AG.  WPD Midlands operates two regulated distribution networks in the Midlands area of England and is included in the U.K. Regulated segment.

Segment Information(PPL)PPL is organized into four reportable segments as depicted in the chart above:  U.K. Regulated, Kentucky Regulated, Pennsylvania Regulated and Supply.  PPL's reportable segments primarily reflect the activities of its related Subsidiary Registrants, except that the reportable segments are also allocated certain corporate level financing and other costs that are not included in the results of the applicable Subsidiary Registrants.  The U.K. Regulated segment has no related Subsidiary Registrant.  Upon completion of the anticipated spinoff of PPL Energy Supply in the second quarter of 2015, PPL will no longer have a Supply segment.



A comparison of PPL's three regulated segments is shown below:








KentuckyPennsylvaniaU.K. RegulatedRegulatedRegulatedFor the year ended December 31, 2014:Operating Revenues (in billions)$2.6$3.2$2.0Net Income Attributable to PPL Shareowners (in millions)$982$312$263Electric energy delivered (GWh)75,81331,54337,026At December 31, 2014:Regulatory Asset Base (in billions) (a)$9.5$8.3$4.9Service area (in square miles)21,6009,40010,000End-users (in millions)7.81.31.4



(a)Represents RAV for U.K. Regulated, capitalization for Kentucky Regulated and rate base for Pennsylvania Regulated.

See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for additional financial information about the segments.(All Registrants except PPL)PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU each operate within a single reportable segment.



·U.K. Regulated Segment(PPL)Consists of PPL Global which primarily includes WPD's regulated electricity distribution operations, the results of hedging the translation of WPD's earnings from British pound sterling into U.S. dollars, and certain costs, such as U.S. income taxes, administrative costs and allocated financing costs.



WPD, through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, operates four of the 15 regulated distribution networks providing electricity service in the U.K.  The number of network customers (end-users) served by WPD totals 7.8 million across 21,600 square miles in Wales and southwest and central England.



Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31 are shown below.



201420132012Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueUtility revenues$2,57398$2,35998$2,28998Energy-related businesses482442472Total$2,621100$2,403100$2,336100



The majority of WPD's utility revenue is known as DUoS and is from providing regulated electricity distribution services to licensed third party energy suppliers who use the network to transfer electricity to their customers, the end-users.



WPD's energy-related business revenues include ancillary activities that support the distribution business.



Franchise and Licenses



The operations of WPD's principal subsidiaries, WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands), are regulated by Ofgem under the direction of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority.  The Electricity Act 1989 provides the fundamental framework of electricity companies and established licenses that require each of the DNOs to develop, maintain and operate efficient distribution networks.



WPD is authorized by Ofgem to provide electricity distribution services within its concession areas and service territories, subject to certain conditions and obligations.  For instance, WPD is subject to Ofgem regulation with respect to the regulated revenue it can earn and the quality of service it must provide, and WPD can be fined or have its licenses revoked if it does not meet the mandated standard of service.



Ofgem has formal powers to propose modifications to each distribution license.  In January 2014, Ofgem and WPD agreed to a reduction of £5 per residential end-user in the 2014/15 regulatory year to be recovered in the 2016/2017 regulatory year.  See "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview - Distribution Revenue Reduction" for additional information.  In May 2014, Ofgem made license changes as part of the RIIO-ED1 process discussed below.










Competition



Although WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces little competition with respect to end-users connected to its network.  WPD's four distribution businesses are, therefore, regulated monopolies which operate under regulatory price controls.



Revenue and Regulation



Ofgem has established a price control mechanism that provides the amount of base demand revenue that a regulated business can earn and provides for an increase or reduction in revenues based on incentives or penalties for exceeding or underperforming relative to pre-established targets.  WPD is currently operating under DPCR5 which is effective for the period from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2015.



In October 2010, Ofgem announced changes to the regulatory framework that will be effective for the U.K. electricity distribution sector, including WPD, beginning April 2015.  Throughout the following discussion of this regulatory framework, the use of the term "customers" refers to the end-users of WPD's regulated distribution networks.  The framework, known as RIIO (Revenues = Incentives + Innovation + Outputs), is intended to:

·encourage DNOs to deliver safe, reliable and sustainable network service at long-term value to customers;

·enable DNOs to finance the required investment in a timely and efficient way; and

·remunerate DNOs according to their delivery for customers.



In addition to extending the price control period from five to eight years, the key components of RIIO-ED1 are:

·increased emphasis on outputs and incentives;

·enhanced stakeholder engagement including network customers;

·a stronger incentive framework to encourage more efficient investment and innovation;

·replacement of the current Low Carbon Network Fund to continue to stimulate innovation;

·depreciation of RAV for additions after April 1, 2015 will be extended from 20 years to 45 years, with a transitional arrangement that will gradually change the life over the price control period that will result in an average life of 35 years for RAV additions during RIIO-ED1.  RAV at March 31, 2015 will continue to be depreciated over 20 years.The asset lives used to determine depreciation expense for U.S. GAAP purposes are not the same as those used for the depreciation of the RAV and as such vary by asset type and are based on the expected useful lives of the assets;

·the ability for DNOs to be fast-tracked through the process, providing several benefits to the qualified DNOs, including the ability to collect the fast-track incentive, which is additional revenue equivalent to 2.5% of total annual expenditures during the 8-year price control period (approximately $43 million annually for WPD), greater revenue certainty and a higher level of cost savings retention; and

·capital return comprised of a 10 year trailing average debt allowance, to be adjusted annually, and an equity allowance determined by Ofgem with a debt to equity ratio of 65:35.  The real cost of equity determined by Ofgem for fast-tracked DNOs was 6.4% and 6.0% for slow-tracked DNOs and will be uplifted by inflation as measured by the Retail Price Index (RPI) to determine the nominal cost of equity.



In November 2013, Ofgem determined that the 8-year business plans of all four of WPD's DNOs were suitable for accelerated consideration or "fast tracking" and as a result merited early settlement of their price controls for the 8-year RIIO-ED1 period starting April 1, 2015.  This was confirmed in February 2014.












During DPCR5, WPD's total base demand revenue for the five-year period was profiled in a manner that resulted in a weighted-average increase of about 5.5% per year for all four DNOs.  In the first year of RIIO-ED1, base demand revenue will decrease by about 11.8% primarily due to a change in the profiling approach and a lower weighted-average cost of capital. For each regulatory year thereafter, base demand revenue will increase by approximately 1% per annum before inflation for the remainder of RIIO-ED1.



In addition to base demand revenue, certain other items are added or subtracted to arrive at allowed revenue.  The most significant of these are discussed below.



During the price control period, WPD's revenue is decoupled from volume.  However, in any fiscal period, WPD's revenue could be negatively affected if its tariffs and the volume delivered do not fully recover the allowed revenue for a particular period.  Conversely, WPD could also over-recover revenue.  Over and under-recoveries are added or subtracted to base demand revenue in future years.  Over and under-recovered amounts arising from 2014/15 onwards and refunded/recovered under RIIO-ED1 will be refunded/recovered on a two year lag (previously one year).  Therefore the 2014/15 over/ under-recovery adjustment will occur in 2016/17 instead of in 2015/16.  In 2016/17, WPD will recover the £5 per residential network customer reduction provided for in 2014/15 as that amount is currently considered an under-recovery. Under applicable U.S. GAAP, WPD does not record a receivable for under-recoveries, but does record a liability for over-recoveries. WPD is not subject to accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation as prescribed by GAAP.  See Note 1 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



Ofgem has established incentive mechanisms to provide significant opportunities to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability and customer service.  Some of the more significant incentive mechanisms include:



·Information Quality Incentive (IQI) - The IQI is designed to incentivize the DNOs to provide good quality information in the business plans they submit to Ofgem during the price control review process and to execute their business plans as submitted.  The IQI eliminates the distinction between capital expenditure and operating expense and instead focuses on total expenditure:

·DPCR5 - 85% of all network related expenditure is allocated to RAV and currently recovered over 20 years through the regulatory depreciation of RAV and 15% is recovered in the year of expenditure together with business support, non-operational capital expenditures and traffic management expenditures.  The IQI provides for incentives or penalties at the end of DPCR5 under the rolling RAV incentive mechanism based on the ratio of actual expenditures to the expenditures submitted to Ofgem that were the basis for the revenues allowed for the five-year price control period.  In addition, at the beginning of DPCR5, WPD was awarded $301 million in IQI revenue of which $222 million will be included in revenue throughout the current price control period with the balance recovered over 20 years through the RAV mechanism.

·RIIO-ED1 - 80% of total costs will be allocated to RAV with 20% recovered in the year of expenditure.  As a result of being fast-tracked, WPD's DNOs are able to retain 70% of any amounts not spent against the RIIO-ED1 plan and bear 70% of any over-spends.  The cost incentive or penalty mechanism will be calculated each year on a 2 year lag basis as part of the annual MOD process discussed above.



·Interruptions Incentive Scheme (IIS) - This incentive has two major components:  (1) Customer interruptions (CIs) and (2) Customer minutes lost (CMLs), and both are designed to incentivize the DNOs to invest and operate their networks to manage and reduce both the frequency and duration of power outages.  During DPCR5 the target for each DNO is based on a benchmark of data from the last four years of the prior price control period.The IIS target under RIIO-ED1 will be divided into interruptions caused by planned and unplanned work.  The target for planned work will be calculated as the annual average level of planned interruptions and minutes lost over a previous three year period.  The target for unplanned interruptions for the first year of RIIO-ED1 is specified in the DNO's license and targets for both the CIs and CMLs become more demanding each year.



·In addition to the IIS, the broad measure of customer service is enhanced.  This broad measure encompasses:

·customer satisfaction in supply interruptions, connections and general inquiries;

·complaints;

·stakeholder engagement; and

·delivery of social obligations.



The following table shows the amount of incentive revenue, primarily from IIS, which WPD has earned since the beginning of DPCR5:










Incentive EarnedRegulatory Year Ended IncentiveRegulatory Year Ended(in millions)Included in RevenueMarch 2011$30March 2013March 201283March 2014March 2013104March 2015March 2014125March 2016



For regulatory years 2015/16 through 2018/19 allowed revenue will also be reduced to reflect Ofgem's final decision on the DPCR4 line loss incentives and penalties mechanism.  WPD has a liability recorded related to this future revenue reduction; therefore, this will not impact future earnings.  See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to U.K. Regulated Segment" for additional information on the risks associated with the U.K. Regulated Segment.



Customers



WPD provides regulated electricity distribution services to licensed third party energy suppliers (its customers) who use the network to transfer electricity to their customers, the end-users.  WPD bills the energy supplier for this service and the supplier is responsible for billing the end-users.  Ofgem requires that all licensed electricity distributors and suppliers become parties to the Distribution Connection and Use of System Agreement.  This agreement specifies how creditworthiness will be determined and, as a result, whether the supplier needs to collateralize for its payment obligations.



·Kentucky Regulated Segment(PPL)Consists of the operations of LKE, which owns and operates regulated public utilities engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and distribution and sale of natural gas, representing primarily the activities of LG&E and KU.  In addition, certain financing costs are allocated to the Kentucky Regulated segment.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



LG&E and KU, direct subsidiaries of LKE, are engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, Virginia and Tennessee.  LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky.  LG&E provides electric service to approximately 400,000 customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky, covering approximately 700 square miles in nine counties and provides natural gas service to approximately 321,000 customers in its electric service area and eight additional counties in Kentucky.  KU provides electric service to approximately 515,000 customers in 77 counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky, approximately 28,000 customers in five counties in southwestern Virginia, and fewer than ten customers in Tennessee, covering approximately 4,800 non-contiguous square miles.  KU also sells wholesale electricity to 12 municipalities in Kentucky under load following contracts.  In Virginia, KU operates under the name Old Dominion Power Company.

Details of operating revenues by customer class for the years ended December 31 are shown below.



201420132012% of% of% ofRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueLKECommercial$81526$77026$72326Industrial627205872055120Residential1,281401,205401,07139Retail - other2799260927010Wholesale - municipal109311041024Wholesale - other (a)572441421Total$3,168100$2,976100$2,759100








201420132012% of% of% ofRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueLG&ECommercial$43328$40529$37428Industrial194131861317013Residential650436144454841Retail - other1308119813110Wholesale - other (a) (b)12688661018Total$1,533100$1,410100$1,324100KUCommercial$38222$36522$34923Industrial433254012538125Residential631365913652334Retail - other149914191399Wholesale - municipal109611071027Wholesale - other (a) (b)332271302Total$1,737100$1,635100$1,524100



(a)Includes wholesale power and transmission revenues.(b)Includes intercompany power sales and transmission revenues, which are eliminated upon consolidation at LKE.



Franchises and Licenses



LG&E and KU provide electricity delivery service, and LG&E provides natural gas distribution service, in their respective service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities.



Competition



There are currently no other electric public utilities operating within the electric service areas of LKE.  From time to time, bills are introduced into the Kentucky General Assembly which seek to authorize, promote or mandate increased distributed generation, customer choice or other developments.  Neither the Kentucky General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky.  The nature or timing of legislative or regulatory actions, if any, regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LKE, which may be significant, cannot currently be predicted.  Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation that implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation.  KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated.



Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane and other fuels provide indirect competition for natural gas revenues of LKE.  Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to certain large end-users.  LG&E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural gas as a commodity; therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact profitability.  However, some large industrial and commercial customers may physically bypass LG&E's facilities and seek delivery service directly from interstate pipelines or other natural gas distribution systems.



Power Supply



At December 31, 2014, LKE owned, controlled or had a minority ownership interest in generating capacity (summer rating) of 8,087 MW, of which 3,342 MW related to LG&E and 4,745 MW related to KU, in Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio.  See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list of LKE's generating facilities.



The system capacity of LKE's owned or controlled generation is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances.



During 2014, LKE's Kentucky power plants generated the following amounts of electricity.



GWhFuel SourceLKELG&EKUCoal (a)33,76814,94418,824Oil / Gas1,505522983Hydro34427272Total (b)35,61715,73819,879










(a)Includes 896 GWh of power generated by and purchased from OVEC for LKE, 620 GWh for LG&E and 276 GWh for KU.(b)This generation represents a 1.4% increase for LKE, a 5.4% increase for LG&E and a 1.6% decrease for KU from 2013 output.



A majority of LG&E's and KU's generated electricity was used to supply its retail and municipal customer base.



LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail and municipal customers.  When LG&E has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail customers and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG&E.  When KU has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail and municipal customers and its generation cost is lower than that of LG&E, LG&E purchases electricity from KU.



See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for additional information regarding LG&E's and KU's Cane Run Unit 7 which is currently under construction, and LG&E's and KU's CPCN application to construct a solar generating facility at the E.W. Brown generating site.  As a result of environmental requirements, LG&E and KU anticipate retiring five older coal-fired electric generating units at the Cane Run plant in 2015 and the Green River plant in 2016, which have a combined summer capacity rating of 724 MW.  In addition, KU retired the remaining 71 MW coal-fired unit at the Tyrone plant in February 2013 and retired a 12 MW gas-fired unit at the Haefling plant in December 2013.



Fuel Supply



Coal is expected to be the predominant fuel used by LG&E and KU for baseload generation for the foreseeable future.  However, natural gas will play a more significant role starting in 2015 when Cane Run Unit 7 is expected to be placed into operation as baseload generation.  The natural gas for this generating unit will be contracted from suppliers separately from LG&E's natural gas customers.  Natural gas and oil will continue to be used for intermediate and peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers.



Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units.  Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating difficulties.  To enhance the reliability of natural gas supply, LG&E and KU have secured long-term pipeline capacity on the interstate pipeline serving the new NGCC unit at Cane Run and six simple cycle combustion turbine units.



LG&E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2019 and normally augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases, as needed.



For their existing units, LG&E and KU expect for the foreseeable future to purchase most of their coal from western Kentucky, southern Indiana and southern Illinois.  In 2015 and beyond, LG&E and KU may purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at TC2.  Coal is delivered to the generating plants by barge, truck and rail.



(PPL, LKE and LG&E)



Natural Gas Distribution Supply



Five underground natural gas storage fields, with a current working natural gas capacity of approximately 15 Bcf, are used in providing natural gas service to LG&E's firm sales customers.  By using natural gas storage facilities, LG&E avoids the costs typically associated with more expensive pipeline transportation capacity to serve peak winter heating loads.  Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal during the following winter heating season.  Without this storage capacity, LG&E would be required to purchase additional natural gas and pipeline transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases and the prices for natural gas supply and transportation services are typically at their highest.  Several suppliers under contracts of varying duration provide competitively priced natural gas.  At December 31, 2014, LG&E had 12 Bcf of natural gas stored underground with a carrying value of $54 million.



LG&E has a portfolio of supply arrangements of varying terms with a number of suppliers designed to meet its firm sales obligations.  These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions that are market-responsive.  In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability and flexibility necessary to serve LG&E's natural gas customers.










LG&E purchases natural gas supply transportation services from two pipelines.  LG&E has contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG&E between 2015 and 2020.  Total winter season capacity under these contracts is 194,900 MMBtu/day and summer season capacity is 88,000 MMBtu/day.  Additionally, LG&E has a contract with the same pipeline for the month of January 2015 with a total capacity of 35,000 MMBtu/day, and a contract with a second pipeline with a total capacity of 20,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons that expires in October 2018.



LG&E expects to purchase natural gas supplies for its gas distribution operations from onshore producing regions in South Texas, East Texas, North Louisiana and Arkansas, as well as gas originating in the Rockies, Marcellus and Utica production areas.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



Transmission



LG&E and KU contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority to act as their transmission reliability coordinator and contract with TranServ International, Inc. to act as their independent transmission operator.



In February 2013, LG&E and KU submitted a compliance filing to the FERC reflecting their participation with other utilities in the Southeastern Regional Transmission Planning group relating to certain FERC Order 1000 requirements.  FERC Order 1000, issued in July 2011, establishes certain procedural and substantive requirements relating to participation, cost allocation and non-incumbent developer aspects of regional and inter-regional electric transmission planning activities.



Rates



LG&E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and the FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, the FERC, the VSCC and the TRA.  LG&E and KU operate under a FERC-approved open access transmission tariff (OATT).



LG&E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and short-term debt) including adjustments for certain net investments and costs recovered separately through other means.  As such, LG&E and KU generally earn a return on regulatory assets.



KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities, except the levelized fuel factor, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia base rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.



KU's rates to 12 municipal customers for wholesale requirements are calculated based on annual updates to a formula rate that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the development of municipal rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.  In April 2014, nine municipalities submitted notices of termination, under the original notice period provisions, to cease taking power under the wholesale requirements contracts.  Such terminations are to be effective in 2019, except in the case of one municipality with a 2017 effective date.  In addition, a tenth municipality has a previously settled termination date of 2016.



See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on cost recovery mechanisms.



Rate Case



On November 26, 2014, LG&E and KU filed requests with the KPSC for increases in annual base electricity rates of approximately $30 million at LG&E and approximately $153 million at KU and an increase in annual base gas rates of approximately $14 million at LG&E.  The proposed base rate increases would result in electricity rate increases of 2.7% at LG&E and 9.6% at KU and a gas rate increase of 4.2% at LG&E and would become effective in July 2015.  LG&E's and KU's applications each include a request for authorized returns-on-equity of 10.5%.  The applications are based on a forecasted test year of July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016.  A number of parties have been granted intervention requests in the proceedings.  A hearing on the applications is scheduled to commence on April 21, 2015.  LG&E and KU cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings.










·Pennsylvania Regulated Segment(PPL)Includes the regulated electricity delivery operations of PPL Electric.



(PPL and PPL Electric)



PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central Pennsylvania.  PPL Electric also provides electricity supply to retail customers in this area as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.



Details of revenues by customer class for the years ended December 31 are shown below.



201420132012Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueDistributionResidential$1,28563$1,21565$1,10863Industrial523523533Commercial367183631936621Other5(11)261Transmission335162511321012Total$2,044100$1,870100$1,763100



Franchise, Licenses and Other Regulations



PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies which it has succeeded and as a result of certification by the PUC.  PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions.  In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance, resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.



Competition



Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service area.  Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its electricity distribution business.  Pursuant to the Customer Choice Act, generation of electricity is a competitive business in Pennsylvania, and PPL Electric does not own or operate any generation facilities.



The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under a FERC-approved PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition pursuant to FERC Order 1000 from entities that are not incumbent PJM transmission owners with respect to the construction and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM.



Rates and Regulation



Transmission



PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which operates the electricity transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S.



PJM serves as a FERC-approved RTO to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves.  In addition to operating the electricity transmission network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services.  A primary objective of any RTO is to separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same markets.  Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities.  Certain types of transmission investment are subject to competitive processes outlined in the PJM tariff.



As a transmission owner, PPL Electric's transmission revenues are recovered through PJM in accordance with a FERC approved tariff that allows recovery of incurred transmission costs, a return on transmission-related plant and an automatic annual update based on a formula rate mechanism.  As a PLR, PPL Electric also purchases transmission services from PJM.  See "PLR" below.










See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms.



Distribution



PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus a cash working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous additions and deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets unless specifically provided for by the PUC.  Currently, PPL Electric's Smart Meter rider and the DSIC are the only regulatory assets earning a return.  Certain operating expenses are also included in PPL Electric's distribution base rates including wages and benefits, other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation and taxes.



Pennsylvania's AEPS requires electricity distribution companies and electricity generation suppliers to obtain a portion of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania from alternative energy sources.  Under the default service procurement plans approved by the PUC, PPL Electric purchases all of the alternative energy generation supply it needs to comply with the AEPS.



Act 129 created an energy efficiency and conservation program, a demand side management program, smart metering technology requirements, new PLR generation supply procurement rules, remedies for market misconduct and changes to the existing AEPS.



Act 11 authorizes the PUC to approve two specific ratemaking mechanisms: the use of a fully projected future test year in base rate proceedings and, subject to certain conditions, the use of a DSIC.  Such alternative ratemaking procedures and mechanisms provide opportunity for accelerated cost-recovery and, therefore, are important to PPL Electric as it is in a period of significant capital investment to maintain and enhance the reliability of its delivery system, including the replacement of aging assets.  In January 2013, PPL Electric filed a petition requesting permission to establish a DSIC.  In May 2013, the PUC approved PPL Electric's proposed DSIC with an initial rate effective July 1, 2013, subject to refund after hearings.  The PUC also assigned four technical recovery calculation issues to the Office of Administrative Law Judge for hearing and preparation of a recommended decision.  In August 2014, the presiding Administrative Law Judge issued a recommended decision which would not have a significant impact on PPL Electric.  This matter remains pending before the PUC.



See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding Act 129, Act 11 and other legislative and regulatory impacts.



PLR



The Customer Choice Act requires Electric Distribution Companies (EDCs), including PPL Electric, or an alternative supplier approved by the PUC to act as a PLR of electricity supply for customers who do not choose to shop for supply with a competitive supplier and provides that electricity supply costs will be recovered by the PLR pursuant to regulations established by the PUC.  As of December 31, 2014, the following percentages of PPL Electric's customer load were provided by competitive suppliers:  50% of residential, 83% of small commercial and industrial and 99% of large commercial and industrial customers.  The PUC continues to be interested in expanding the competitive market for electricity.  See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL Electric's cost of electricity generation is based on a competitive solicitation process.  The PUC approved PPL Electric's default service plan for the period June 2013 through May 2015, which includes 4 solicitations for electricity supply held in April and October, annually.  Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric contracts for all of the electricity supply for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, large commercial and large industrial customers who elect to take that service from PPL Electric.  These solicitations include a mix of 12- and 9-month fixed-price load-following contracts for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, and 12-month real-time pricing contracts for large commercial and large industrial customers to fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide customer electricity supply as a PLR.  In April 2014, PPL Electric filed a new Default Service Plan with the PUC for the period of June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2017.  The petition was approved by the PUC on January 15, 2015.



Numerous alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service territory.  Since the cost of generation supply is a pass-through cost for PPL Electric, its financial results are not impacted if its customers purchase electricity supply from these alternative suppliers.  See "Energy Purchase Commitments" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding PPL Electric's solicitations.










·Supply Segment(PPL)Consists primarily of the activities of PPL Energy Supply's subsidiaries, PPL Generation and PPL EnergyPlus.  PPL Generation owns and operates competitive domestic power plants to generate electricity and acquires and develops competitive domestic generation projects.  PPL EnergyPlus markets and trades electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related products in competitive wholesale and retail markets.  In addition, certain financing and other costs are allocated to the Supply segment.  Upon completion of the anticipated spinoff of PPL Energy Supply in 2015, PPL will no longer have a Supply segment.  See "Anticipated Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply" above for additional information.



(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)



PPL Energy Supply's generation assets are primarily located in Pennsylvania and Montana.  PPL Energy Supply enters into energy and energy-related contracts to hedge the variability of expected cash flows associated with its generating units and marketing activities, as well as for trading purposes.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the electricity produced by PPL Energy Supply's generation plants based on prevailing market rates.  PPL Energy Supply's total expected generation in 2015 is anticipated to be used to meet its committed contractual sales.  PPL Energy Supply has also entered into commitments of varying quantities and terms for 2016 and beyond.



Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31, are shown below.



201420132012Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueEnergyUnregulated wholesale energy (a)$1,89251$2,96065$4,05476Unregulated retail energy1,243331,0272384416Total energy3,135843,987884,89892Energy-related businesses (b)60116527124488Total$3,736100$4,514100$5,346100





(a)Included in these amounts for 2014, 2013 and 2012 are $84 million, $51 million and $78 million of wholesale electricity sales to an affiliate, PPL Electric, which are eliminated in consolidation for PPL.

(b)Energy-related businesses primarily support the generation, marketing and trading businesses of PPL Energy Supply.  Their activities include developing renewable energy projects and providing energy-related products and services to commercial and industrial customers through their mechanical contracting and services subsidiaries.  Energy-related businesses for PPL's Supply segment had additional revenues not related to PPL Energy Supply of $13 million for 2012, which are not included in this table.



Power Supply



PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled generating capacity (summer rating) of 9,896 MW at December 31, 2014.  Generating capacity controlled by PPL Generation and other PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries includes power obtained through PPL EnergyPlus' power purchase agreements.  See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment" for details of PPL Energy Supply's generating capacity.



During 2014, PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled power plants that generated the following amounts of electricity.



GWhFuel SourceNortheasternNorthwesternTotalNuclear16,90316,903Oil / Gas11,08011,080Coal16,0744,03020,104Hydro (a)9313,3184,249Renewables (b)413413Total45,4017,34852,749



(a)The Northwestern amount reflects generation from hydroelectric generating facilities that were sold by PPL Montana to NorthWestern in November 2014.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(b)PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries own or control renewable energy projects located in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Vermont and New Hampshire with a generating capacity (summer rating) of 25 MW.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the energy, capacity and RECs produced by these plants into the wholesale market as well as to commercial and industrial customers.










PPL Energy Supply's generation subsidiaries are EWGs that sell electricity into wholesale markets.  EWGs are subject to regulation by the FERC, which has authorized these EWGs to sell the electricity generated at market-based prices.  This electricity is sold to PPL EnergyPlus under FERC-jurisdictional power purchase agreements.  PPL Susquehanna is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of the Susquehanna nuclear units.  Certain of PPL Energy Supply's other subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of their fossil plants with respect to certain level and density monitoring devices.  Certain operations of PPL Generation's subsidiaries are also subject to OSHA and comparable state statutes.



Fuel Supply



Coal



Pennsylvania



PPL EnergyPlus actively manages PPL Energy Supply's coal requirements by purchasing coal principally from mines located in northern Appalachia.



During 2014, PPL Generation purchased 5.6 million tons of coal required for its wholly owned Pennsylvania plants.  Coal inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units.  Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating difficulties.  PPL Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, has agreements in place that will provide more than 16 million tons of PPL Generation's projected coal needs for the Pennsylvania power plants from 2015 through 2018 and augments its coal supply agreements with spot market purchases, as needed.



A PPL Generation subsidiary owns a 12.34% interest in the Keystone plant and a 16.25% interest in the Conemaugh plant.  PPL Generation owns a 12.34% interest in Keystone Fuels, LLC and a 16.25% interest in Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.  The Keystone plant contracts with Keystone Fuels, LLC for its coal requirements, which provided 4.5 million tons of coal to the Keystone plant in 2014.  The Conemaugh plant requirements are purchased under contract from Conemaugh Fuels, LLC, which provided 4.5 million tons of coal to the Conemaugh plant in 2014.



All wholly owned PPL Generation coal plants within Pennsylvania are equipped with scrubbers, which use limestone in their operations.  Acting as agent for PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus has entered into limestone contracts with suppliers that will provide for those plants' requirements through 2016.  During 2014, 430,000 tons of limestone were delivered to Brunner Island and Montour under these contracts.  Annual limestone requirements range from approximately 400,000-500,000 tons.



Montana



PPL Montana owns a 30% interest in Colstrip Unit 3 and NorthWestern owns a 30% interest in Colstrip Unit 4.  PPL Montana and NorthWestern have a sharing agreement that governs each party's responsibilities and rights relating to the operation of Colstrip Units 3 and 4.  Under the terms of that agreement, each party is responsible for 15% of the total non-coal operating and construction costs of Colstrip Units 3 and 4, regardless of whether a particular cost is specific to Colstrip Unit 3 or 4 and is entitled to take up to 15% of the available generation from Units 3 and 4.  Each party is responsible for its own coal costs.  PPL Montana, with the other Colstrip owners, is party to contracts to purchase 100% of its coal requirements with defined coal quality characteristics and specifications.  PPL Montana, with the other Colstrip Units 1 and 2 owner, has a long-term purchase and supply agreement with the current supplier for Units 1 and 2, which provides these units 85% to 100% of their coal requirements (at owners' option) from January 2015 through December 2019.  PPL Montana, with the other Colstrip Units 3 and 4 owners, has a long-term coal supply contract for Units 3 and 4, which provides these units 100% of their coal requirements through December 2019.



These units were originally built containing scrubbers and PPL Montana has entered into a long-term contract to purchase the limestone requirements for these units.  The contract extends through December 2030.



Coal supply contracts are in place to purchase low-sulfur coal with defined quality characteristics and specifications for PPL Montana's Corette plant.  The contracts covered 100% of the plant's coal requirements in 2014 and similar contracts are in place to supply 100% of the expected coal requirements through the suspension of plant operations scheduled for no later than April 2015.  The plant is expected to be retired in August 2015.










Oil and Natural Gas



Pennsylvania



PPL Generation's Martins Creek Units 3 and 4 burn both oil and natural gas.  During 2014, 100% of the physical gas requirements for the Martins Creek units were purchased on the spot market using either delivered supply or a combination of spot market supply and short-term capacity and oil requirements were supplied from inventory and replenished by purchases made in the spot market.  At December 31, 2014, there were no long-term agreements for oil or natural gas for these units.



Short-term and long-term gas transportation contracts are in place for approximately 38% of the maximum daily requirements of the Lower Mt. Bethel combined-cycle facility.



For PPL's Ironwood combined-cycle facility, PPL EnergyPlus has long-term transportation contracts that can deliver up to approximately 25% of Ironwood's maximum daily gas requirements.  Daily gas requirements can also be met through a combination of short-term transportation capacity release transactions coupled with upstream supply.



In addition, PPL EnergyPlus has secured long-term natural gas supply for approximately 10% of the combined needs of Ironwood and Lower Mt. Bethel through 2016.



Nuclear



The nuclear fuel cycle consists of several material and service components:  the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; the conversion of these concentrates into uranium hexafluoride, a gas component; the enrichment of the hexafluoride gas; the fabrication of fuel assemblies for insertion and use in the reactor core; and the temporary storage and final disposal of spent nuclear fuel.



PPL Susquehanna has a portfolio of supply contracts, with varying expiration dates, for nuclear fuel materials and services.  These contracts are expected to provide sufficient fuel to permit Unit 1 to operate into the first quarter of 2020 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter of 2019.  PPL Susquehanna anticipates entering into additional contracts to ensure continued operation of the nuclear units.



Federal law requires the U.S. government to provide for the permanent disposal of commercial spent nuclear fuel, but there is no definitive date by which a repository will be operational.  As a result, it was necessary to expand Susquehanna's on-site spent fuel storage capacity.  To support this expansion, PPL Susquehanna contracted for the design and construction of a spent fuel storage facility employing dry cask fuel storage technology.  The facility is modular, so that additional storage capacity can be added as needed.  The facility began receiving spent nuclear fuel in 1999.  PPL Susquehanna estimates, under current operating conditions, that there is sufficient storage capacity in the spent nuclear fuel pools and the on-site spent fuel storage facility at Susquehanna to accommodate spent fuel discharged through approximately 2017.  If necessary, the on-site spent fuel storage facility can be expanded, assuming appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained, such that, together, the spent fuel pools and the expanded dry fuel storage facility will accommodate all of the spent fuel expected to be discharged through 2044, the current licensed life of the plant.



In 1996, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the Nuclear Waste Policy Act imposed on the DOE an unconditional obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel on or before January 31, 1998.  In January 2004, PPL Susquehanna filed suit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for unspecified damages suffered as a result of the DOE's breach of its contract to accept and dispose of spent nuclear fuel.  In May 2011, PPL Susquehanna entered into a settlement agreement with the U.S. Government relating to PPL Susquehanna's lawsuit.  The settlement included reimbursement of certain costs to store spent nuclear fuel at the Susquehanna plant incurred from 1998 through December 31, 2013, and PPL Susquehanna received payments for its claimed costs for those periods.  In exchange, PPL Susquehanna waived any claims against the U.S. Government for costs paid or injuries sustained related to storing spent nuclear fuel at the Susquehanna plant through December 31, 2013.  In January 2014, PPL Susquehanna entered into a new agreement with the DOE to extend the settlement agreement on the same terms as the prior agreement for an additional three years to the end of 2016.










Energy Marketing



PPL EnergyPlus sells the capacity and electricity produced by PPL Generation subsidiaries, and buys and sells purchased power, capacity, ancillary services, FTRs, natural gas, oil, uranium, emission allowances and RECs in competitive wholesale and competitive retail markets.



PPL EnergyPlus transacts in competitive retail energy markets, and buys and sells electricity and natural gas supply, to meet the diverse needs of business customers.  PPL EnergyPlus sells retail electricity supply to business customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, Montana, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania and sells retail natural gas supply to business customers in Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.  The company also offers electricity supply to select residential customers in Pennsylvania.  Although retail energy revenues continue to grow, the net margins related to these activities are not currently a significant component of PPL Energy Supply's margins.



Within the constraints of its hedging policy, PPL EnergyPlus actively manages its portfolios of energy and energy-related products to optimize their value and to limit exposure to price fluctuations.  See Note 17 to the Financial Statements for more information.



Competition



Since the early 1990s, there has been increased competition in U.S. energy markets because of federal and state competitive market initiatives.  Although some states, such as Pennsylvania and Montana, have created a competitive market for electricity generation, other states continue to consider different types of regulatory initiatives concerning competition in the power and gas industries.  Some states that were considering creating competitive markets have slowed their plans or postponed further consideration.  In addition, states that have created competitive markets have, from time to time, considered new market rules and re-regulation measures that could result in more limited opportunities for competitive energy suppliers.  Interest in re-regulation, however, has slowed due to recent declining power prices.  As such, the markets in which PPL Energy Supply participates are highly competitive.



PPL Energy Supply faces competition in wholesale markets for available energy, capacity and ancillary services.  Competition is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, congestion along the power grid, governmental mandates for new generation, new market entrants, construction of new generating assets, technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors.  PPL Energy Supply primarily competes with other electricity suppliers based on its ability to aggregate generation supply at competitive prices from different sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and transmission from electric utilities and ISOs.  Competitors in wholesale power markets include regulated utilities, industrial companies, NUGs, competitive subsidiaries of regulated utilities and other energy marketers.  See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Supply Segment", "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview" and Notes 13 and 17 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the risks faced with respect to competitive energy markets.



Franchise and Licenses



See "Energy Marketing" above for a discussion of PPL EnergyPlus' licenses in various states.  PPL EnergyPlus has a license from the DOE to export electric energy to Canada.  PPL EnergyPlus also has a permit from the National Energy Board of Canada to export firm and interruptible energy from Canada to the U.S.



PPL Susquehanna operates Units 1 and 2 pursuant to NRC operating licenses that expire in 2042 for Unit 1 and in 2044 for Unit 2.



In 2008, a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary, PPL Bell Bend, LLC, submitted a COLA to the NRC for a new nuclear generating unit (Bell Bend) to be built adjacent to the Susquehanna plant.  Also in 2008, the COLA was formally docketed and accepted for review by the NRC.  PPL Bell Bend, LLC does not expect to complete the COLA review process with the NRC prior to 2018.  See Note 8 to Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL Holtwood operates the Holtwood and Wallenpaupack hydroelectric generating plants pursuant to FERC-granted licenses that expire in 2030 and 2045, respectively.










·Other Corporate Functions(PPL)



PPL Services provides corporate functions such as financial, legal, supply chain, human resources and information technology services.  Most of PPL Services' costs are charged directly to the respective PPL subsidiaries for the services provided or indirectly charged to applicable subsidiaries based on an average of the subsidiaries' relative invested capital, operation and maintenance expenses and number of employees.



Upon completion of the anticipated spinoff of PPL Energy Supply and any related transition services to Talen Energy, the remaining corporate functions that would be provided by PPL Services would primarily be in support of PPL Electric.  As a result, a newly created centralized services company has been formed, PPL EU Services, which will provide the majority of corporate functions such as financial, supply chain, human resources and information technology services to PPL Electric.  Significant portions of the various corporate functions within PPL Services will be transferred to PPL EU Services during 2015 and 2016 as the transition services agreements with Talen Energy expire.  Most of PPL EU Services' costs will be charged directly to PPL Electric for the services provided, with limited amounts charged back to PPL Services and its affiliates.  PPL Services will continue to provide certain limited corporate functions, as the size of the organization is being reduced from approximately 1,200 employees to less than 200 employees after the transition services with Talen Energy are complete.



PPL Capital Funding, PPL's financing subsidiary, provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries.  PPL's growth in rate-regulated businesses provides the organization with an enhanced corporate level financing alternative, through PPL Capital Funding, that further enables PPL to cost effectively support targeted credit profiles across all of PPL's rated companies.  As a result, PPL plans to further utilize PPL Capital Funding in future financings, in addition to continued direct financing by the operating companies.



Unlike PPL Services and PPL EU Services, PPL Capital Funding's costs are not generally charged to PPL subsidiaries.  Costs are charged directly to PPL.  However, PPL Capital Funding participated significantly in the financing for the acquisitions of LKE and WPD Midlands and certain associated financing costs were allocated to the Kentucky and U.K. Regulated segments.  The associated financing costs, as well as the financing costs associated with prior issuances of certain other PPL Capital Funding securities, have been assigned to the appropriate segments for purposes of PPL management's assessment of segment performance.  The financing costs associated primarily with PPL Capital Funding's securities issuances in 2013 and beyond, with certain exceptions including the remarketing of the debt component of the 2010 and 2011 Equity Units, have not been directly assigned or allocated to any segment.



See "Anticipated Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply" above for information on the expected reductions of $75 million in corporate support costs in connection with the spinoff transaction.

(All Registrants)SEASONALITY

The demand for and market prices of electricity and natural gas are affected by weather.  As a result, the Registrants' operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when more severe weather conditions such as heat waves or extreme winter weather make such fluctuations more pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the type and location of the facilities owned, the retail load served and the terms of contracts to purchase or sell electricity.  See "Financial Condition - Environmental Matters" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information regarding climate change.



FINANCIAL CONDITION

See "Financial Condition" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this information.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS

See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in "Item 7. Combined Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information






concerning projected capital expenditure requirements for 2015 through 2019.  See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital expenditures from environmental matters.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS





EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

At December 31, 2014, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time employees.



PPL Energy Supply (a)4,156PPL Electric2,122LKEKU949LG&E1,029LKS1,504Total LKE3,482PPL Global (primarily WPD)6,473PPL Services and other1,158Total PPL17,391



(a)Includes labor union employees of mechanical contracting subsidiaries, whose numbers tend to fluctuate due to the nature of this business.



At December 31, 2014, the breakdown of the total workforce that is represented by labor unions was:Number of EmployeesPercent of Total WorkforcePPL (a)9,06252%PPL Energy Supply2,48260%PPL Electric1,31962%LKE85525%LG&E71469%KU14115%



(a)Includes 4,076 employees of WPD who are members of labor unions (or 63% of PPL's U.K. workforce).  WPD recognizes four unions, the largest of which represents 41% of its union workforce.  WPD's Electricity Business Agreement, which covers 4,001 union employees, may be amended by agreement between WPD and the unions and can be terminated with 12 months' notice by either side.

See "Anticipated Spinoff of PPL Energy Supply" in Note 8 to the Financial Statements and "Labor Union Agreements" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements for details on the elimination of approximately 430 domestic positions at PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

PPL's Internet website is www.pplweb.com.  Under the Investor heading of that website, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of the Registrants (including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(d) or 15(d)) free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC.  Additionally, the Registrants' filings are available at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.








