ITEM 1. BUSINESS



BACKGROUND



PPL Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is an energy and utility holding company that was incorporated in 1994.  Through subsidiaries, PPL generates electricity from power plants in the northeastern, northwestern and southeastern U.S.; markets wholesale or retail energy primarily in the northeastern and northwestern portions of the U.S.; delivers electricity to customers in Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia, Tennessee and the U.K.; and delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky.



PPL's overall strategy is to achieve stable, long-term growth in its regulated electricity delivery businesses through efficient operations and strong customer and regulatory relations, and disciplined optimization of energy supply margins in its energy supply business while mitigating volatility in both cash flows and earnings.



In pursuing this strategy, in 2011 and 2010, PPL completed two significant acquisitions that have reduced PPL's overall business risk profile and reapportioned the mix of PPL's regulated and competitive businesses by increasing the regulated portion of its business:



·On April 1, 2011, PPL, through an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, PPL WEM, completed its acquisition of all the outstanding ordinary share capital of Central Networks East plc and Central Networks Limited, the sole owner of Central Networks West plc, together with certain other related assets and liabilities (collectively referred to as Central Networks and subsequently renamed WPD Midlands), from subsidiaries of E.ON AG.  WPD Midlands operates two regulated distribution networks that serve five million end-users in the Midlands area of England.



·On November 1, 2010, PPL acquired all of the limited liability company interests of E.ON U.S. LLC from a wholly owned subsidiary of E.ON AG.  Upon completion of the acquisition, E.ON U.S. LLC was renamed LG&E and KU Energy LLC (LKE).  LKE is engaged in regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG&E and KU.



See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information on both acquisitions.



Each rate-regulated business plans to make material capital investments over the next several years to improve infrastructure and customer reliability.  See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" for information on each Registrant's capital expenditure projections.



A key objective of PPL's business strategy is to maintain a strong credit profile.  PPL's recent growth in rate-regulated businesses has provided the organization with an enhanced corporate level financing alternative, through PPL Capital Funding, that further enables PPL to support targeted credit profiles cost effectively across all of PPL's rated companies.  As a result, PPL plans to further utilize PPL Capital Funding in addition to continued direct financing by the operating companies, as appropriate.



At December 31, 2012, PPL had:



·$12.3 billion in operating revenues for the year (56% from regulated businesses),

·10.5 million end-users of its utility services,

·approximately 19,000 MW of generation (44% within regulated businesses), and

·approximately 18,000 full-time employees.



PPL's principal subsidiaries at December 31, 2012 are shown below (* denotes an SEC registrant).




PPL Corporation*PPL Capital FundingLKE*PPL Global●Engages in the regulated distribution of electricity in the U.K.PPL Electric*●Engages in the regulated transmission and distribution of electricity in PennsylvaniaPPL Energy Supply*LG&E*●Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky, and distribution and sale of natural gas in KentuckyKU*●Engages in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity, primarily in KentuckyPPL EnergyPlus●Performs energy marketing and trading activities●Purchases fuelPPL Generation●Engages in the competitive generation of electricity, primarily in Pennsylvania and MontanaKentucky RegulatedSegmentU.K. RegulatedSegmentPennsylvania Regulated SegmentSupplySegment





In addition to PPL Corporation, the other SEC registrants included in this filing are:



LG&E and KU Energy LLC,headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a holding company with regulated utility operations through subsidiaries, LG&E and KU, and is a subsidiary of PPL.  LKE, formed in 2003, is the successor to a Kentucky entity incorporated in 1989.



Louisville Gas and Electric Company,headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky.  LG&E was incorporated in Kentucky in 1913.  At December 31, 2012, LG&E owned 3,354 MW of electric power generation capacity and is implementing capital projects at an existing generation facility to provide 141 MW of additional generating capacity by the end of 2015.  LG&E also anticipates retiring 563 MW of coal-fired generating capacity by the end of 2015 to meet certain environmental regulations.  LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail native load.



Kentucky Utilities Company,headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, is a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee.  KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and Virginia in 1991.  KU serves its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name while its Kentucky and Tennessee customers are served under the KU name.  At December 31, 2012, KU owned 4,833 MW of electric power generation capacity and is implementing capital projects at an existing generation facility owned by LG&E to provide 499 MW of additional generating capacity by the end of 2015.  KU retired the remaining 71 MW unit at the Tyrone plant in February 2013.  KU also anticipates retiring 163 MW of coal-fired generating capacity by the end of 2015 to meet certain environmental regulations.  KU and LG&E jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail native load.



PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a direct subsidiary of PPL incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1920 and a regulated public utility.  PPL Electric delivers electricity in its Pennsylvania service territory and provides electricity supply to retail customers in that territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.






PPL Energy Supply, LLC, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is an indirect subsidiary of PPL formed in 2000 and is an energy company engaged through its subsidiaries in the generation and marketing of electricity, primarily in the northeastern and northwestern power markets of the U.S.  PPL Energy Supply's major operating subsidiaries are PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Generation.  In January 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its entire membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding (the parent holding company of PPL Energy Supply and PPL Global with no other material operations), to better align PPL's organizational structure with the manner in which it manages these businesses and reports segment information in its consolidated financial statements.  The distribution separated the U.S.-based competitive energy marketing and supply business from the U.K.-based regulated electricity distribution business.  See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information.  The 2010 operating results of PPL Global, which represented the U.K. Regulated segment (formerly International Regulated), are classified as discontinued operations.  At December 31, 2012, PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled 10,591 MW of electric power generation capacity and is implementing capital projects at certain of its existing generation facilities in Pennsylvania and Montana to provide 153 MW of additional generating capacity by the end of 2013.



PPL's utility subsidiaries, and to a lesser extent, certain competitive supply subsidiaries, are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC related to wholesale power sales and related transactions, electricity transmission service, accounting practices, issuances and sales of securities, acquisitions and sales of utility properties and payments of dividends.  PPL and LKE are subject to certain FERC regulations as holding companies under PUHCA and the Federal Power Act, including with respect to accounting and record-keeping, inter-system sales of non-power goods and services and acquisitions of securities in, or mergers with, certain types of electric utility companies.



Successor and Predecessor Financial Presentation(LKE, LG&E and KU)



LKE's, LG&E's and KU's Financial Statements and related financial and operating data include the periods before and after PPL's acquisition of LKE on November 1, 2010 and have been segregated to present pre-acquisition activity as the Predecessor and post-acquisition activity as the Successor.  Certain accounting and presentation methods were changed to acceptable alternatives to conform to PPL's accounting policies, and the cost bases of certain assets and liabilities were changed as of November 1, 2010 as a result of the application of push-down accounting.  Consequently, the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the Successor periods are not comparable to the Predecessor periods; however, the core operations of LKE, LG&E and KU have not changed as a result of the acquisition.



Segment Information



(PPL)



PPL is organized into four reportable segments:  Kentucky Regulated, U.K. Regulated (name changed in 2012 from International Regulated), Pennsylvania Regulated and Supply.  There were no changes to reportable segments in 2012 other than the name change noted above.



A comparison of PPL's three regulated segments is shown below:KY Regulated (a)U.K. Regulated (b)PA Regulated (c)For the year ended December 31, 2012:Operating Revenues (in billions)$2.8$2.3$1.8Net Income Attributable to PPL Shareowners (in millions)$177$803$132Electric energy delivered (GWh)30,90877,46736,023At December 31, 2012:Regulatory Asset Base (in billions) (d)$6.7$8.6$3.5Service area (in square miles)9,40021,40010,000End-users (in millions)1.37.81.4



(a)Business activities include the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and the distribution and sale of natural gas.

(b)Business activities include the distribution of electricity.

(c)Business activities include the transmission and distribution of electricity.

(d)Represents RAV for U.K. Regulated, capitalization for KY Regulated and rate base for PA Regulated.






(PPL Energy Supply)



PPL Energy Supply has operated in a single reportable segment since 2011.  Prior to 2011, PPL Energy Supply's segments consisted of Supply and U.K. Regulated (formerly International Regulated).  In January 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its 100% membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding, to better align PPL's organizational structure with the manner in which it manages its businesses and reports segment information in its consolidated financial statements.  The distribution separated the U.S.-based competitive energy marketing and supply business from the U.K.-based regulated electricity distribution business.  The 2010 operating results of PPL Global, which represented the U.K. Regulated segment, are classified as discontinued operations for PPL Energy Supply.



(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)



PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU each operate within a single reportable segment.



(PPL)



See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for financial information about the segments.



·Kentucky Regulated Segment(PPL)Consists of the operations of LKE, which owns and operates regulated public utilities engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and the distribution and sale of natural gas, representing primarily the activities of LG&E and KU.  The Kentucky Regulated segment also includes interest expense related to the 2010 Equity Units that were issued to partially finance the acquisition of LKE.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



LKE became a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL on November 1, 2010.  LG&E and KU are engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, Virginia and Tennessee.  LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky.  LG&E provides electric service to approximately 393,000 customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky, covering approximately 700 square miles in 9 counties.  LG&E provides natural gas service to approximately 318,000 customers in its electric service area and 7 additional counties in Kentucky.  KU provides electric service to approximately 510,000 customers in 77 counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky; approximately 29,000 customers in 5 counties in southwestern Virginia; and fewer than 10 customers in Tennessee, covering approximately 4,800 non-contiguous square miles.  KU also sells wholesale electricity to 12 municipalities in Kentucky under load following contracts.  In Virginia, KU operates under the name Old Dominion Power Company.



Acquisition by PPL



In September 2010, the KPSC approved a settlement agreement among PPL and all of the intervening parties to PPL's joint application to the KPSC for approval of its acquisition of ownership and control of LKE.  In the settlement agreement, the parties agreed that LG&E and KU would commit that no base rate increases would take effect before January 1, 2013.  Under the terms of the settlement, LG&E and KU retained the right to seek approval for the deferral of "extraordinary and uncontrollable costs."  Interim rate adjustments continued to be permissible during that period through existing fuel, environmental and demand side management recovery mechanisms.  In October 2010, both the VSCC and the TRA approved the transfer of control of LKE to PPL.  The orders and the settlement agreement approved by the KPSC contained certain other commitments by LG&E and KU with regard to operations, workforce, community involvement and other matters.



Also in October 2010, the FERC approved the application for the transfer of control of the utilities.  The approval included various conditional commitments, such as a continuation of certain existing undertakings with intervenors in prior cases, an agreement not to terminate certain KU municipal customer contracts prior to January 2017, an exclusion of any transaction-related costs from wholesale energy and tariff customer rates to the extent that LG&E and KU have agreed not to seek recovery of the same transaction-related costs from retail customers and agreements to coordinate with intervenors in certain pending matters.



See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information on regulatory matters related to the acquisition.






Franchises and Licenses



LG&E and KU provide electricity delivery service, and LG&E provides natural gas distribution service, in their respective service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities.



Competition



There are currently no other electric public utilities operating within the electric service areas of LKE.  From time to time, bills are introduced into the Kentucky General Assembly which seek to authorize, promote or mandate increased distributed generation, customer choice or other developments.  Neither the Kentucky General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky.  The nature or timing of any legislative or regulatory actions regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LKE, which may be significant, cannot currently be predicted.  Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation that implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation.  KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated.



Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane and other fuels provide indirect competition for natural gas revenues of LKE.  Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to certain large end-users.  LG&E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural gas as a commodity; therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact profitability.  However, some large industrial and commercial customers may physically bypass LG&E's facilities and seek delivery service directly from interstate pipelines or other natural gas distribution systems.



Operating Revenues



Details of operating revenues by customer class are shown below.

SuccessorPredecessorYear EndedYear EndedTwo Months EndedTen Months EndedDecember 31, 2012December 31, 2011December 31, 2010October 31, 2010% of% of% of% ofRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueLKE (a)Commercial$72326$71926$12325$57326Industrial5512053319861742419Residential1,071391,087392194488640Retail - other27010269943921210Wholesale - municipal10241044153884Wholesale - other (b)42181382311Total$2,759100$2,793100$494100$2,214100LG&ECommercial$37428$37227$6626$28727Industrial1701315211261012212Residential54841561411134444642Retail - other1311013010229989Wholesale - other (b) (c)101814911271110410Total$1,324100$1,364100$254100$1,057100KUCommercial$34923$34722$5722$28623Industrial3812538125602330224Residential52334526341064044035Retail - other139913992181149Wholesale - municipal10271047156887Wholesale - other (b) (c)30251341182Total$1,524100$1,548100$263100$1,248100



(a)The LKE Successor information also represents PPL's Kentucky Regulated segment.

(b)Includes wholesale and transmission revenues.

(c)Includes intercompany power sales and transmission revenues, which are eliminated upon consolidation at LKE.






Power Supply



At December 31, 2012, LKE owned, controlled or had an ownership interest in generating capacity (summer rating) of 8,187 MW, of which 3,354 MW related to LG&E and 4,833 MW related to KU, in Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio.  See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list of LKE's generating facilities.



The system capacity of LKE's owned or controlled generation is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances.



During 2012, LKE's Kentucky power plants generated the following amounts of electricity.



Thousands of MWhFuel SourceLKELG&EKUCoal (a)32,82015,05117,769Oil / Gas1,340463877Hydro25021238Total (b)34,41015,72618,684



(a)Includes 990 MWh of power generated by and purchased from OVEC for LKE, 685 MWh for LG&E and 305 MWh for KU.

(b)This generation represents a 4% decrease for LKE, a 4% decrease for LG&E and a 3% decrease for KU from 2011 output.



A significant portion of LG&E's and KU's generated electricity was used to supply its retail and municipal customer base.



LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail native load.  When LG&E has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail native load and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG&E.  When KU has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail native load and its generation cost is lower than that of LG&E, LG&E purchases electricity from KU.



See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for additional information regarding LG&E's and KU's plans for development of Cane Run Unit 7.  KU retired the remaining 71 MW unit at the Tyrone plant in February 2013.  LG&E and KU also anticipate retiring 563 MW and 163 MW of coal-fired generating capacity by the end of 2015 to meet certain environmental regulations.



Fuel Supply



Coal is expected to be the predominant fuel used by LG&E and KU for baseload generation for the foreseeable future.  However, natural gas will play a more significant role starting in 2015 when Cane Run Unit 7 is expected to be placed into operation.  This unit is expected to be used for baseload generation.  Natural gas and oil will continue to be used for intermediate and peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers.



Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units.  Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating difficulties.  To enhance the reliability of natural gas supply, LG&E and KU have secured long-term pipeline capacity on the interstate pipeline serving the new combined cycle unit and six simple cycle combustion turbine units.



LG&E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2017 and normally augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases, as needed.



For their existing units, LG&E and KU expect for the foreseeable future to purchase most of their coal from western Kentucky, southern Indiana, southern Illinois and Ohio.  The use of high sulfur coal increased during 2012 due to the installation of scrubbers and the sulfuric acid mist mitigation system at KU's E.W. Brown plant.  In 2013 and beyond, LG&E and KU may purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at TC2.  Coal is delivered to the generating plants by barge, truck and rail.






(PPL, LKE and LG&E)



Natural Gas Supply



Five underground natural gas storage fields, with a current working natural gas capacity of approximately 15 Bcf, are used in providing natural gas service to LG&E's firm sales customers.  By using natural gas storage facilities, LG&E avoids the costs typically associated with more expensive pipeline transportation capacity to serve peak winter heating loads.  Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal during the following winter heating season.  Without this storage capacity, LG&E would be required to purchase additional natural gas and pipeline transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases and the prices for natural gas supply and transportation services are typically at their highest.  Several suppliers under contracts of varying duration provide competitively priced natural gas.  At December 31, 2012, LG&E had a 12 Bcf inventory balance of natural gas stored underground with a carrying value of $42 million.



LG&E has a portfolio of supply arrangements of varying terms with a number of suppliers designed to meet its firm sales obligations.  These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions that are market-responsive.  In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability and flexibility necessary to serve LG&E's natural gas customers.



LG&E purchases natural gas supply transportation services from two pipelines.  LG&E has contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG&E between 2015 and 2018.  Total winter capacity under these contracts is 194,900 MMBtu/day and summer capacity is 88,000 MMBtu/day.  LG&E has a contract with another pipeline that expires in October 2014.  Total winter and summer capacity under this contract is 20,000 MMBtu/day during both seasons.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



Rates and Regulation



LG&E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and the FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, the FERC, the VSCC and the TRA.  LG&E and KU operate under a FERC-approved open access transmission tariff.  LG&E and KU contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority to act as their transmission reliability coordinator.  LG&E and KU contracted with Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP), to function as their independent transmission operator, pursuant to FERC requirements under a contract that expired on August 31, 2012.  After receiving FERC approval, LG&E and KU transferred from SPP to TranServ International, Inc. as their independent transmission operator beginning September 1, 2012.



In February 2013, LG&E and KU submitted a compliance filing to the FERC reflecting their participation with other utilities in the Southeastern Regional Transmission Planning relating to certain FERC Order 1000 requirements.  FERC Order 1000, issued in July 2011, establishes certain procedural and substantive requirements relating to participation, cost allocation and non-incumbent developer aspects of regional and inter-regional electric transmission planning activities.



LG&E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and short-term debt) including certain adjustments to exclude non-regulated investments and costs recovered separately through other rate mechanisms.  As such, LG&E and KU earn a return on the net cash invested in regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities.



KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities, except the levelized fuel factor, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia base rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.



KU's rates to municipal customers for wholesale requirements are calculated based on annual updates to a rate formula that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the development of municipal rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.



See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on cost recovery mechanisms.






2012 Kentucky Rate Case



In June 2012, LG&E and KU filed requests with the KPSC for increases in annual base electric rates of approximately $62 million at LG&E and approximately $82 million at KU and an increase in annual base gas rates of approximately $17 million at LG&E.  In November 2012, LG&E and KU along with all of the parties filed a unanimous settlement agreement.  Among other things, the settlement provided for increases in annual base electric rates of $34 million at LG&E and $51 million at KU and an increase in annual base gas rates of $15 million at LG&E.  The settlement agreement also included revised depreciation rates that result in reduced annual electric depreciation expense of approximately $9 million for LG&E and approximately $10 million for KU.  The settlement agreement included an authorized return on equity at LG&E and KU of 10.25%.  On December 20, 2012, the KPSC issued orders approving the provisions in the settlement agreement.  The new rates became effective on January 1, 2013.  In addition to the increased base rates, the KPSC approved a gas line tracker mechanism for LG&E to provide for recovery of costs associated with LG&E's gas main replacement program, gas service lines and risers.



FERC Wholesale Rates



In May 2012, KU submitted to the FERC the annual adjustments to the formula rate which incorporated certain proposed increases.  These rates became effective as of July 1, 2012.



·U.K. Regulated Segment(PPL)Includes WPD, a regulated electricity distribution business in the U.K.



WPD, through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, operates four of the 15 regulated distribution networks providing electricity service in the U.K.  With the April 2011 acquisition of WPD Midlands, the number of end-users served has more than doubled totaling 7.8 million across 21,400 square miles in Wales, southwest and central England.  See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the acquisition.



Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31 are shown below.



201220112010Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueUtility revenues (a)$2,28998$1,61898$72796Energy-related businesses472352344Total$2,336100$1,653100$761100



(a)The above years are not comparable as WPD Midlands was acquired in April 2011.  2011 includes eight months of activity as WPD Midlands' results are recorded on a one-month lag.



WPD's energy-related businesses revenues include ancillary activities that support the distribution business, including telecommunications and real estate.  WPD's telecommunication revenues are from the rental of fiber optic cables primarily attached to WPD's overhead electricity distribution network.  WPD also provides meter services to businesses across the U.K.



Franchise and Licenses



WPD is authorized by Ofgem to provide electric distribution services within its concession areas and service territories, subject to certain conditions and obligations.  For instance, WPD is subject to Ofgem regulation of the regulated revenue it can earn and the quality of service it must provide, and WPD can be fined or have its licenses revoked if it does not meet the mandated standard of service.



Competition



Although WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces little competition with respect to end-users connected to its network.  WPD's four distribution businesses, WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales), WPD (West Midlands) and WPD (East Midlands), are thus regulated monopolies which operate under regulatory price controls.






Revenue and Regulation



The operations of WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands) are regulated by Ofgem under the direction of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority.  The Electricity Act 1989 provides the fundamental legal framework of electricity companies and established licenses that required each of the DNOs to develop, maintain and operate efficient distribution networks.  Ofgem has established a price control mechanism that restricts the amount of revenue that can be earned by regulated business and provides for an increase or reduction in revenues based on incentives or penalties for exceeding or underperforming against pre-established targets.



This regulatory structure is an incentive-based regulatory structure in comparison to the U.S. utility businesses which operate under a cost-based regulatory framework.  Under the UK regulatory structure, electricity distribution revenues are currently set every five years, but extending to eight years in the next price control period beginning in April 2015.  The revenue that DNOs can earn in each of the five years is the sum of:  i) the regulator's view of efficient operating costs, ii) a return on the capital from the RAV plus an annual adjustment for the inflation determined by Retail Price Index (RPI) for the prior calendar year, iii) a return of capital from the RAV (i.e. depreciation), and iv) certain pass-through costs over which the DNO has no control.  Additionally, incentives are provided for a range of activities including exceeding certain reliability and customer service targets.



WPD is currently operating under DPCR5 which was completed in December 2009 and is effective for the period from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2015.  Ofgem allowed WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) an average increase in total revenues, before inflationary adjustments, of 6.9% in each of the five years and WPD Midlands an average increase in total revenues, before inflationary adjustments, of 4.5% in each of the five years.  The revenue increase includes reimbursement for higher operating and capital costs to be incurred driven by additional requirements.  In DPCR5, Ofgem decoupled WPD's allowed revenue from volume delivered over the five-year price control period.  However, in any fiscal period WPD's revenue could be negatively affected if its tariffs and the volume delivered do not fully recover the allowed revenue for a given period.  Under recoveries are recovered in the next regulatory year, however, PPL does not record a receivable for under recoveries in the current period.  Over recoveries are reflected in the current period as a liability and are not included in revenue.



In addition to providing a base regulated revenue allowance, Ofgem has established incentive mechanisms to provide significant opportunities to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability and customer service.  Some of the more significant incentive mechanisms under DPCR5 include:



·Interruptions Incentive Scheme (IIS) - This incentive has two major components: 1)  Customer interruptions and 2) Customer minutes lost and is designed to incentivize the DNOs to invest and operate their networks to manage and reduce both the frequency and duration of power outages experienced by customers.  The target for each DNO is based on a benchmark of data from the last four years of the prior price control period.



Effective April 1, 2012, an additional customer satisfaction incentive mechanism was implemented that includes a customer satisfaction survey, a complaints metric and a measure of stakeholder engagement.  This incentive replaced the customer response telephone performance incentive that was effective April 1, 2010.



·Line Loss Incentive - This incentive existed in the prior price control review, DPCR4, and was designed to incentivize DNOs to invest in lower loss equipment, to change the way they operate their systems to reduce losses, and to detect theft and unregistered meters.  In November 2012, Ofgem issued a decision not to activate the DPCR5 line loss incentive.  See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for information on Ofgem's review of line loss calculations.



·Information Quality Incentive (IQI) - The IQI is designed to incentivize the DNOs to provide good quality information when they submit their business plans to Ofgem during the price control process and to execute the plan they submitted.  The IQI eliminates the distinction between capital expenditure and operating expense and instead looks at total expenditure.  Total expenditure is allocated 85% to "slow pot" which is added to RAV and recovered over 20 years through the regulatory depreciation of the RAV and 15% to "fast pot" which is recovered during the current price control review period.  The IQI then provides for incentives or penalties at the end of DPCR5 based on the ratio of actual expenditures to the expenditures submitted to Ofgem that were the basis for the revenues allowed during the five-year price control review period.




At the beginning of DPCR5, WPD was awarded $301 million in incentive revenue of which $222 million will be included in revenue throughout the current price control period with the balance recovered over subsequent price control periods.  Since the beginning of DPCR5, WPD earned additional incentive revenue, primarily from IIS of $83 million and $30 million for the regulatory years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, which will be included in revenue for the 2013-14 and 2012-13 regulatory years.





Customers



The majority of WPD's revenue is known as DUoS and is derived from charging energy suppliers for the delivery of electricity to end-users and thus its customers are the suppliers to those end-users.  Ofgem requires that all licensed electricity distributors and suppliers become parties to the Distribution Connection and Use of System Agreement.  This agreement sets out how creditworthiness will be determined and, as a result, whether the supplier needs to provide collateral.



·Pennsylvania Regulated Segment(PPL)Includes the regulated electric delivery operations of PPL Electric.



(PPL and PPL Electric)



PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act.  PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central Pennsylvania.  PPL Electric also provides electricity supply in this territory as a PLR.



Details of electric revenues by customer class for the years ended December 31, are shown below.



201220112010Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueResidential$1,10863$1,26667$1,46960Industrial5336231235Commercial366214312358824Other (a) (b)23613133727511Total$1,763100$1,892100$2,455100



(a)Includes regulatory over- or under-recovery reconciliation mechanisms, pole attachment revenues, street lighting and net transmission revenues.

(b)Included in these amounts for 2012, 2011 and 2010 are $3 million, $11 million and $7 million of retail and wholesale electric to affiliate revenue which is eliminated in consolidation for PPL.



Franchise, Licenses and Other Regulations



PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies to which it has succeeded and as a result of certification by the PUC.  PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions.  In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance, resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.






Competition



Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service area.  Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its electric distribution business.



The PPL Electric transmission business, operating under the purview of the FERC-approved PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, is subject to competition from entities that are not incumbent PJM transmission owners with respect to building and ownership of transmission facilities within PJM.  No authority has yet been promulgated that sets forth the parameters of non-incumbent competition.



Rates and Regulation



Transmission and Distribution



PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which operates the electric transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S.



PJM serves as a FERC-approved RTO to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves.  In addition to operating the electric transmission network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services.  A primary objective of any RTO is to separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same markets.  Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities.



As a transmission owner, PPL Electric's transmission revenues are billed to PJM in accordance with a FERC tariff that allows recovery of transmission costs incurred, a return on transmission-related plant and an automatic annual update.  As a PLR, PPL Electric also purchases transmission services from PJM.  See "PLR" below.



In April 2010, the FERC issued an order concluding that under the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, PJM may, but is not required to, designate an entity other than the incumbent PJM transmission owner to own and construct economic expansion projects and receive cost-of-service based compensation for the use of its facilities.  Additionally, the FERC directed PJM to file tariff changes necessary for non-incumbent transmission owners to be provided opportunity to propose and construct transmission projects in accordance with exclusions specified in the April 2010 order and consistent with state and local laws and regulations.  PJM tariff changes are currently under review by the FERC.



PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus a cash working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous additions and deductions such as materials and supplies inventories and customer deposits and advances) plus certain operating expenses.  Operating expenses included in PPL Electric's distribution base rates include wages and benefits, other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and taxes.



In November 2004, Pennsylvania enacted the AEPS, which requires electricity distribution companies and electricity generation suppliers to obtain a portion of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania from alternative energy sources.  Under the default service procurement plans approved by the PUC, PPL Electric purchases all of the alternative energy generation supply it needs to comply with the AEPS.



Act 129 creates an energy efficiency and conservation program, a demand side management program, smart metering technology requirements, new PLR generation supply procurement rules, remedies for market misconduct, and changes to the existing AEPS.



Act 11 authorizes the PUC to approve two specific ratemaking mechanisms - the use of a fully projected future test year in base rate proceedings and, subject to certain conditions, a DSIC.  In August 2012, the PUC issued a final implementation order adopting procedures, guidelines and a model tariff for implementation of Act 11.  Act 11 requires utilities to file an LTIIP as a prerequisite to filing for recovery through the DSIC.  The LTIIP is mandated to be a five- to ten-year plan describing projects eligible for inclusion in the DSIC.  PPL Electric filed its LTIIP in September 2012 and the PUC subsequently approved the LTIIP on January 10, 2013.  PPL Electric filed a petition requesting permission to establish a DSIC on January 15, 2013 with rates proposed to be effective beginning May 1, 2013.



See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding Act 129, Act 11 and other legislative and regulatory impacts.






PLR



The Customer Choice Act requires Electric Distribution Companies (EDCs), including PPL Electric, to act as a PLR of electricity supply for customers who do not choose to shop for supply with a competitive supplier and provides that electricity supply costs will be recovered by the PLR pursuant to regulations established by the PUC.  As of December 31, 2012, the following percentages of PPL Electric's customer load were provided by competitive suppliers:  46% of residential, 84% of small commercial and industrial and 99% of large commercial and industrial customers.  The PUC continues to be interested in expanding the competitive market for electricity.  See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL Electric's cost of electricity generation is based on a competitive solicitation process.  The PUC approved PPL Electric's default service plan for the period January 2011 through May 2013, which includes 14 solicitations for electricity supply beginning January 1, 2011 with a portion extending beyond May 2013.  Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric contracts for all of the electricity supply for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, large commercial and large industrial customers who elect to take that service from PPL Electric.  These solicitations include a mix of spot market purchases and long-term and short-term purchases ranging from five months to ten years to fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide customer electricity supply as a PLR.  To date, PPL Electric has concluded all of its planned competitive solicitations under the plan.



The PUC has directed all EDCs to file default service procurement plans for the period June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015.  PPL Electric filed its plan in May 2012.  In that plan, PPL Electric proposed a process to obtain supply for its default service customers and a number of initiatives designed to encourage more customers to purchase electricity supply from the competitive retail market.  In its January 24, 2013 final order, the PUC approved PPL Electric's plan with modifications and directed PPL Electric to establish collaborative processes to address several retail competition issues.



Numerous alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service territory.  Whether its customers purchase electricity supply from these alternative suppliers or from PPL Electric as a PLR, the purchase of such supply has no impact on the financial results of PPL Electric.  The costs to purchase PLR supply, including charges paid to PJM for related transmission services, are passed directly by PPL Electric to its PLR customers without markup.  See "Energy Purchase Commitments" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding PPL Electric's solicitations.



Rate Cases



2012 Rate Case



In March 2012, PPL Electric filed a request with the PUC to increase distribution rates by approximately $105 million, effective January 1, 2013.  On December 28, 2012, in its final order, the PUC approved a 10.4% return on equity and a total distribution revenue increase of about $71 million.  The approved rates became effective January 1, 2013.



Also in its December 28, 2012 final order, the PUC directed PPL Electric to file a proposed Storm Damage Expense Rider within 90 days following the order.  PPL Electric plans to file a proposed Storm Damage Expense Rider with the PUC and, as part of that filing, request recovery of the $28 million of qualifying storm costs incurred as a result of the October 2012 landfall of Hurricane Sandy.



See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities - Storm Costs" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on Hurricane Sandy.



FERC Formula Rates



Transmission rates are regulated by the FERC.  PPL Electric's transmission revenues are billed in accordance with a FERC-approved PJM open access transmission tariff that utilizes a formula-based rate recovery mechanism.



PPL Electric has initiated its formula rate 2012, 2011 and 2010 Annual Updates.  Each update has been subsequently challenged by a group of municipal customers.  In August 2011, the FERC issued an order substantially rejecting the 2010 formal challenge and the municipal customers filed a request for rehearing of that order.  In September 2012, the FERC issued an order setting for evidentiary hearings and settlement judge procedures a number of issues raised in the 2010 and 2011 formal challenges.  Settlement conferences were held in late 2012 and early 2013.  In February 2013, the FERC set for evidentiary hearings and settlement judge procedures a number of issues in the 2012 formal challenge and consolidated that


challenge with the 2010 and 2011 challenges.  PPL Electric anticipates that there will be additional settlement conferences held in 2013.  PPL and PPL Electric cannot predict the outcome of the foregoing proceedings, which remain pending before the FERC.

In March 2012, PPL Electric filed a request with the FERC seeking recovery of its regulatory asset related to the deferred state tax liability that existed at the time of the transition from the flow-through treatment of state income taxes to full normalization.  This change in tax treatment occurred in 2008 as a result of prior FERC initiatives that transferred regulatory jurisdiction of certain transmission assets from the PUC to FERC.  At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, $52 million and $53 million are classified as taxes recoverable through future rates and included on the Balance Sheets in "Other Noncurrent Assets - Regulatory assets." In May 2012, the FERC issued an order approving PPL Electric's request to recover the deferred tax regulatory asset over a 34-year period beginning June 1, 2012.



See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms.



(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)



·Supply SegmentOwns and operates competitive domestic power plants to generate electricity; markets and trades this electricity, purchased power, and other energy-related products to competitive wholesale and retail markets; and acquires and develops competitive domestic generation projects.  Consists primarily of the activities of PPL Generation and PPL EnergyPlus.



PPL Energy Supply has generation assets that are located in the northeastern and northwestern U.S. markets.  The northeastern generating capacity is located primarily in Pennsylvania within PJM and northwestern generating capacity is located in Montana.  PPL Energy Supply enters into energy and energy-related contracts to hedge the variability of expected cash flows associated with its generating units and marketing activities, as well as for trading purposes.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the electricity produced by PPL Energy Supply's generation plants based on prevailing market rates.  PPL Energy Supply's total expected generation in 2013 is anticipated to be used to meet its committed contractual sales.  PPL Energy Supply has entered into commitments of varying quantities and terms for 2014 and beyond.



Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31, are shown below.



201220112010Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueEnergyWholesale (a)$4,20076$5,24082$4,34785Retail84816727114158Trading4(2)2Total energy5,052925,965934,76493Energy-related businesses (b)448846473647Total$5,500100$6,429100$5,128100



(a)Included in these amounts for 2012, 2011, and 2010 are $78 million, $26 million and $320 million of wholesale electricity sales to an affiliate, PPL Electric, which are eliminated in consolidation for PPL.

(b)Energy-related businesses primarily support the generation, marketing and trading businesses of PPL Energy Supply.  Their activities include developing renewable energy projects and providing energy-related products and services to commercial and industrial customers through their mechanical contracting and services subsidiaries.Energy-related businesses for PPL's Supply segment had additional revenues not related to PPL Energy Supply of $13 million, $8 million and $11 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, which are not included in this table.



Power Supply



PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled generating capacity (summer rating) of 10,591 MW at December 31, 2012.  The system capacity of PPL Energy Supply's owned or controlled generation is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances.  Generating capacity controlled by PPL Generation and other PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries includes power obtained through PPL EnergyPlus' power purchase agreements.  See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment" for a complete listing of PPL Energy Supply's generating capacity.



During 2012, PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled power plants that generated the following amounts of electricity.






Thousands of MWhsFuel SourceNortheasternNorthwesternTotalNuclear15,22415,224Oil / Gas9,3839,383Coal16,8573,23220,089Hydro5523,4433,995Renewables (a)342342Total42,3586,67549,033



(a)PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries own or control renewable energy projects located in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Vermont, Connecticut and New Hampshire with a generating capacity (summer rating) of 70 MW.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the energy, capacity and RECs produced by these plants into the wholesale market as well as to commercial, industrial and institutional customers.



PPL Energy Supply's generation subsidiaries are EWGs that sell electricity into wholesale markets.  EWGs are subject to regulation by the FERC, which has authorized these EWGs to sell the electricity generated at market-based prices.  This electricity is sold to PPL EnergyPlus under FERC-jurisdictional power purchase agreements.  PPL Susquehanna is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of the Susquehanna nuclear units.  Certain of PPL Energy Supply's other subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of their fossil plants with respect to certain level and density monitoring devices.  Certain operations of PPL Generation's subsidiaries are also subject to OSHA and comparable state statutes.



See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for information on the 2011 sale of certain non-core generation facilities, the 2010 sale of the Long Island generation business and the 2010 completion of the sale of the Maine hydroelectric generation business.



See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment" for additional information regarding PPL Generation's plans for capital projects in Pennsylvania and Montana that are expected to provide 153 MW of additional electric generating capacity by the end of 2013.



Fuel Supply



PPL EnergyPlus acts as agent for PPL Generation to procure and optimize its various fuels.



Coal



Pennsylvania



PPL EnergyPlus actively manages PPL Energy Supply's coal requirements by purchasing coal principally from mines located in northern Appalachia.



During 2012, PPL Generation purchased 5.6 million tons of coal required for its wholly owned Pennsylvania plants under short-term and long-term contracts.  The amount of coal in inventory varies from time to time depending on market conditions and plant operations.



PPL Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, has agreements in place that will provide more than 23 million tons of PPL Generation's projected coal needs for the Pennsylvania power plants from 2013 through 2018.



A PPL Generation subsidiary owns a 12.34% interest in the Keystone plant and a 16.25% interest in the Conemaugh plant.  PPL Generation owns a 12.34% interest in Keystone Fuels, LLC and a 16.25% interest in Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.  The Keystone plant contracts with Keystone Fuels, LLC for its coal requirements, which provided 4.3 million tons of coal to the Keystone plant in 2012.  The Conemaugh plant requirements are purchased under contract from Conemaugh Fuels, LLC, which provided 4.1 million tons of coal to the Conemaugh plant in 2012.



All PPL Generation coal plants within Pennsylvania are equipped with scrubbers, which use limestone in their operations.  Acting as agent for PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus has entered into contracts with limestone suppliers that will provide for those plants' limestone requirements through 2014.  During 2012, 382,000 tons of limestone were delivered to Brunner Island and Montour under these contracts.  Annual limestone requirements approximate 400,000-500,000 tons.






Montana



PPL Montana has a 50% leasehold interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2, and a 30% leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 3.  NorthWestern owns a 30% interest in Colstrip Unit 4.  PPL Montana and NorthWestern have a sharing agreement that governs each party's responsibilities and rights relating to the operation of Colstrip Units 3 and 4.  Under the terms of that agreement, each party is responsible for 15% of the total non-coal operating and construction costs of Colstrip Units 3 and 4, regardless of whether a particular cost is specific to Colstrip Unit 3 or 4 and is entitled to take up to 15% of the available generation from Units 3 and 4.  Each party is responsible for its own coal costs.  PPL Montana, along with the other Colstrip owners, is party to contracts to purchase 100% of its coal requirements with defined coal quality characteristics and specifications.  PPL Montana, along with the other Colstrip Units 1 and 2 owner, has a long-term purchase and supply agreement with the current supplier for Units 1 and 2, which provides these units 100% of their coal requirements through December 2014, and at least 85% of such requirements from January 2015 through December 2019.  PPL Montana, along with the other Colstrip Units 3 and 4 owners, has a long-term coal supply contract for Units 3 and 4, which provides these units 100% of their coal requirements through December 2019.



These units were originally built with scrubbers and PPL Montana has entered into a long-term contract to purchase the limestone requirements for these units.  The contract extends through December 2030.



Coal supply contracts are in place to purchase low-sulfur coal with defined quality characteristics and specifications for PPL Montana's Corette plant.  The contracts covered 100% of the plant's coal requirements in 2012 and similar contracts are in place to supply 100% of the expected coal requirements through 2014.



Oil and Natural Gas



Pennsylvania



PPL Generation's Martins Creek Units 3 and 4 burn both oil and natural gas.  During 2012, 100% of the physical gas requirements for the Martins Creek units were purchased on the spot market while oil requirements were supplied from inventory.  At December 31, 2012, there were no long-term agreements for oil or natural gas for these units.



Short-term and long-term gas transportation contracts are in place for approximately 38% of the maximum daily requirements of the Lower Mt. Bethel facility.  During 2012, 100% of the physical gas requirements were purchased on the spot market.



In 2008, PPL EnergyPlus acquired the rights to an existing long-term tolling agreement associated with the capacity and energy of the Ironwood Facility.  In April 2012, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply completed the acquisition of the equity interests in the owner and operator of the Ironwood Facility.  See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information.  Beginning in 2010, PPL EnergyPlus has long-term transportation contracts that can deliver up to approximately 25% of Ironwood's maximum daily gas requirements.  Daily gas requirements can also be met through a combination of short-term transportation capacity release transactions coupled with upstream supply.  PPL EnergyPlus currently has no long-term physical gas contracts.  During 2012, 100% of the physical gas requirements were purchased on the spot market.



Nuclear



The nuclear fuel cycle consists of several material and service components:  the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; the conversion of these concentrates into uranium hexafluoride, a gas component; the enrichment of the hexafluoride gas; the fabrication of fuel assemblies for insertion and use in the reactor core; and the temporary storage and final disposal of spent nuclear fuel.



PPL Susquehanna has a portfolio of supply contracts, with varying expiration dates, for nuclear fuel materials and services.  These contracts are expected to provide sufficient fuel to permit Unit 1 to operate into the first quarter of 2016 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter of 2017.  PPL Susquehanna anticipates entering into additional contracts to ensure continued operation of the nuclear units.






Federal law requires the U.S. government to provide for the permanent disposal of commercial spent nuclear fuel, but there is no definitive date by which a repository will be operational.  As a result, it was necessary to expand Susquehanna's on-site spent fuel storage capacity.  To support this expansion, PPL Susquehanna contracted for the design and construction of a spent fuel storage facility employing dry cask fuel storage technology.  The facility is modular, so that additional storage capacity can be added as needed.  The facility began receiving spent nuclear fuel in 1999.  PPL Susquehanna estimates, under current operating conditions, that there is sufficient storage capacity in the spent nuclear fuel pools and the on-site spent fuel storage facility at Susquehanna to accommodate spent fuel discharged through approximately 2017.  If necessary, the on-site spent fuel storage facility can be expanded, assuming appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained, such that, together, the spent fuel pools and the expanded dry fuel storage facility will accommodate all of the spent fuel expected to be discharged through the current licensed life of the plant.



In 1996, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the Nuclear Waste Policy Act imposed on the DOE an unconditional obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel on or before January 31, 1998.  In January 2004, PPL Susquehanna filed suit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for unspecified damages suffered as a result of the DOE's breach of its contract to accept and dispose of spent nuclear fuel.  In May 2011, the parties entered into a settlement agreement which resolved all claims of PPL Susquehanna through December 2013.  PPL Susquehanna has received payments for claims through 2011.  PPL Susquehanna is eligible to receive payment of annual claims for allowed costs, as set forth in the settlement agreement, that are incurred through December 31, 2013.  In exchange, PPL Susquehanna has waived any claims against the United States government for costs paid or injuries sustained related to storing spent nuclear fuel at the Susquehanna plant through December 31, 2013.



Energy Marketing



PPL EnergyPlus sells the capacity and electricity produced by PPL Generation subsidiaries, along with purchased power, FTRs, natural gas, oil, uranium, emission allowances and RECs in competitive wholesale and competitive retail markets.



Purchases and sales at the wholesale level are made at competitive prices under FERC market-based prices.  PPL EnergyPlus is licensed to provide retail electric supply to customers in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, Montana and Pennsylvania and licensed to provide retail natural gas supply to customers in Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania.  Within the constraints of its hedging policy, PPL EnergyPlus actively manages its portfolios of energy and energy-related products to optimize their value and to limit exposure to price fluctuations.  See "Commodity Volumetric Activity" in Note 19 to the Financial Statements for the strategies PPL Energy Supply employs to optimize the value of its wholesale and retail energy portfolio.



Competition



Since the early 1990s, there has been increased competition in U.S. energy markets because of federal and state competitive market initiatives.  While some states, such as Pennsylvania and Montana, have created a competitive market for electricity generation, other states continue to consider different types of regulatory initiatives concerning competition in the power and gas industry.  Some states that were considering creating competitive markets have slowed their plans or postponed further consideration.  In addition, states that have created competitive markets have, from time to time, considered new market rules and re-regulation measures that could result in more limited opportunities for competitive energy suppliers.  Interest in re-regulation, however, has slowed due to the current environment of declining power prices.  As such, the markets in which PPL Energy Supply participates are highly competitive.



PPL Energy Supply faces competition in wholesale markets for available energy, capacity and ancillary services.  Competition is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, congestion along the power grid, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets, technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors.  PPL Energy Supply primarily competes with other electricity suppliers based on its ability to aggregate generation supply at competitive prices from different sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and transmission from electric utilities and ISOs.  Competitors in wholesale power markets include regulated utilities, industrial companies, NUGs, competitive subsidiaries of regulated utilities and other energy marketers.  See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Supply Segment" and PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview" and Note 15 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the risks faced with respect to competitive energy markets.






Franchise and Licenses



See "Energy Marketing" above for a discussion of PPL EnergyPlus' licenses in various states.  PPL EnergyPlus also has an export license from the DOE to sell capacity and/or energy to electric utilities in Canada.



PPL Susquehanna operates Units 1 and 2 pursuant to NRC operating licenses that expire in 2042 for Unit 1 and in 2044 for Unit 2.



In 2008, a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary, PPL Bell Bend, LLC, submitted a COLA to the NRC for a new nuclear generating unit (Bell Bend) to be built adjacent to the Susquehanna plant.  Also in 2008, the COLA was formally docketed and accepted for review by the NRC.  PPL Bell Bend, LLC does not expect to complete the COLA review process with the NRC prior to 2015.  See Note 8 to Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL Holtwood operates the Holtwood hydroelectric generating plant pursuant to a FERC-granted license that expires in 2030.  In October 2009, the FERC approved the request to expand the Holtwood plant.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.  PPL Holtwood operates the Wallenpaupack hydroelectric generating plant pursuant to a FERC-granted license that expires in 2044.



PPL's 11 hydroelectric facilities and one storage reservoir in Montana are licensed by the FERC.  The Thompson Falls and Kerr licenses expire in 2025 and 2035, the licenses for the nine Missouri-Madison facilities expire in 2040, and the license for the Mystic facility expires in 2050.



In connection with the relicensing of these generating facilities, applicable law permits the FERC to relicense the original licensee or license a new licensee or allow the U.S. government to take over the facility.  If the original licensee is not relicensed, it is compensated for its net investment in the facility, not to exceed the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable damages to other property affected by the lack of relicensing.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the Kerr Dam license.



·Other Corporate Functions(PPL)



PPL Services provides corporate functions such as financial, legal, human resources and information technology services.  Most of PPL Services' costs are charged directly to the respective PPL subsidiaries for the services provided or are indirectly charged to applicable subsidiaries based on an average of the subsidiaries' relative invested capital, operation and maintenance expenses and number of employees.



PPL Capital Funding, PPL's financing subsidiary, provides financing for the operations of PPL and certain subsidiaries, but PPL Capital Funding's costs are not charged to any Registrant other than PPL.  PPL Capital Funding participated significantly in the financing for the acquisitions of LKE and WPD Midlands.  The associated financing costs, as well as the financing costs associated with prior issuances of certain other PPL Capital Funding securities, have been and will continue to be assigned to the appropriate segments for purposes of PPL management's assessment of segment performance.  PPL's recent growth in rate-regulated businesses provides the organization with an enhanced corporate level financing alternative, through PPL Capital Funding, that further enables PPL to support targeted credit profiles cost effectively across all of PPL's rated companies.  As a result, PPL plans to further utilize PPL Capital Funding in addition to continued direct financing by the operating companies, as appropriate.  Beginning in 2013, the proceeds and the financing costs associated primarily with PPL Capital Funding's future securities issuances are not expected to be directly assignable or allocable to any segment.



Also, the costs of certain other miscellaneous corporate level activities are not charged to any subsidiaries or allocated or assigned to any segment for purposes of assessing performance by PPL management.



(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)



SEASONALITY



The demand for and market prices of electricity and natural gas are affected by weather.  As a result, the Registrants' operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when more severe weather conditions such as heat waves or extreme winter weather make such fluctuations more pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the type and location of the facilities owned and the terms of contracts to purchase or sell electricity.  See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Environmental Matters" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information regarding climate change.






FINANCIAL CONDITION



See the Registrants' "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this information.



CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS



See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in the Registrants' "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information concerning projected capital expenditure requirements for 2013 through 2017.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital expenditures from environmental matters.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS





The Registrants are unable to predict the ultimate effect of evolving environmental laws and regulations upon their existing and proposed facilities and operations and competitive positions.  In complying with statutes, regulations and actions by regulatory bodies involving environmental matters, including, among other things, air and water quality, GHG emissions, hazardous and solid waste management and disposal, and regulation of toxic substances, PPL's and LKE's subsidiaries may be required to modify, replace or cease operating certain of their facilities.  PPL's and LKE's subsidiaries may also incur significant capital expenditures and operating expenses in amounts which are not now determinable but could be significant.



EMPLOYEE RELATIONS



At December 31, 2012, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time employees.



PPL Energy Supply (a)4,733PPL Electric2,311LKEKU931LG&E991LKS1,380Total LKE3,302PPL Global (primarily WPD)6,116PPL Services and other1,267Total PPL17,729



(a)Includes labor union employees of mechanical contracting subsidiaries, whose numbers tend to fluctuate due to the nature of this business.



Approximately 5,600 employees, or 48%, of PPL's domestic workforce are members of labor unions, with four IBEW labor unions representing approximately 4,300 employees.  The bargaining agreement with the largest IBEW labor union, which expires in May 2014, covers approximately 1,500 PPL Electric, 1,600 PPL Energy Supply and 400 other employees.  Approximately 700 employees of LG&E and 70 employees of KU are represented by an IBEW labor union.  Both LG&E and KU have three-year labor agreements with the IBEW, which expire in November 2014 and August 2015.  The KU IBEW agreement includes a wage reopener in 2014.  Approximately 70 employees of KU are represented by a United Steelworkers of America (USWA) labor union, under an agreement that expires in August 2014.  PPL Montana's largest bargaining unit, an IBEW labor union, represents approximately 260 employees at the Colstrip plant.  The four-year labor agreement expires in April 2016.  PPL Montana's second largest bargaining unit, also an IBEW labor union, represents approximately 80 employees at hydroelectric facilities and the Corette plant, under an agreement that expires in April 2013.






Approximately 3,900, or 64%, of PPL's U.K. workforce are members of labor unions.  WPD recognizes four unions, the largest of which represents 41% of its union workforce.  WPD's Electricity Business Agreement, which covers approximately 3,850 union employees, may be amended by agreement between WPD and the unions and is terminable with 12 months' notice by either side.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



PPL's Internet website is www.pplweb.com.  On the Investor Center page of that website, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of the Registrants (including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(d) or 15(d)) free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC.  Additionally, the Registrants' filings are available at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.






