ITEM 1. BUSINESS



BACKGROUND



PPL Corporation,
headquartered in Allentown, PA, is an energy and utility holding company that
was incorporated in 1994.  Through its subsidiaries, PPL generates
electricity from power plants in the northeastern and western U.S., markets
wholesale or retail energy primarily in the northeastern and western portions of
the U.S. and delivers electricity to approximately 4 million customers in
Pennsylvania and the U.K.  PPL's significant subsidiaries are shown
below:







In
addition to PPL Corporation, the other SEC registrants included in this filing
are:



PPL Energy Supply, LLC, an
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PPL formed in 2000, is an energy company
engaged through its subsidiaries in the generation and marketing of power,
primarily in the northeastern and western power markets of the U.S. and in the
delivery of electricity in the U.K.  PPL Energy Supply's major
operating subsidiaries are PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL
Global.  At December 31, 2009, PPL Energy Supply owned or
controlled 11,719 MW of electric power generation capacity and has plans to
implement capital projects at certain of its existing generation facilities in
Pennsylvania and Montana to provide 239 MW of additional generating capacity by
2014.



PPL Electric Utilities
Corporation, incorporated in 1920, is a direct subsidiary of PPL and a
regulated public utility.  PPL Electric provides electricity delivery
service in its service territory in Pennsylvania and provides electricity supply
to retail customers in that territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice
Act.



Segment
Information



PPL is
organized into three segments:  Supply, Pennsylvania Delivery and
International Delivery.  PPL Energy Supply's segments consist of
Supply and International Delivery.  PPL Electric operates in a single
business segment.  See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for
financial information about the segments and geographic financial
data.



·Supply Segment
      -Owns
      and operates domestic power plants to generate electricity; markets and
      trades this electricity and other purchased power to deregulated wholesale
      and retail markets; and acquires and develops domestic generation
      projects.  Consists primarily of the activities of PPL
      Generation and PPL EnergyPlus.



PPL
Energy Supply has generation assets that are located in the eastern and western
U.S. markets.  The eastern generation assets are located in the
Northeast/Mid-Atlantic energy markets - including PJM, the New York ISO and ISO
New England.  PPL Energy Supply's western generating capacity is
located in markets within the Western Electricity Coordinating
Council.



PPL Energy Supply
      Owned or Controlled Generation
Capacity



PPL
Energy Supply owned or controlled generating capacity of 11,719 MW at
December 31, 2009.  Through subsidiaries, PPL Generation owns and
operates power plants primarily in Pennsylvania, Montana, Illinois, Connecticut,
New York and Maine.  The total owned or controlled generating capacity
includes power obtained through PPL EnergyPlus' tolling or power purchase
agreements (including Ironwood and other facilities that consist of NUGs, wind
farms and landfill gas facilities).  See "Item 2. Properties - Supply
Segment" for a complete listing of PPL Energy Supply's generating
capacity.



PPL
Energy Supply's U.S. generation subsidiaries are EWGs, which sell electricity
into the wholesale market.  PPL Energy Supply's EWGs are subject to
regulation by the FERC, which has authorized these EWGs to sell generation from
their facilities at market-based prices.  The electricity from these
plants is sold to PPL EnergyPlus under FERC-jurisdictional power purchase
agreements.



PPL
Generation operates its Pennsylvania and Illinois power plants in conjunction
with PJM.  PPL Generation's Pennsylvania and Illinois power plants and
PPL EnergyPlus are members of the RFC.  Refer to "Pennsylvania
Delivery Segment" for information regarding PJM's operations and functions and
the RFC.



Pennsylvania
generation had a total capacity of 9,583 MW at December 31,
2009.  These plants are fueled by uranium, coal, natural gas, oil,
water and other fuels.



PPL
Susquehanna, a subsidiary of PPL Generation, owns a 90% undivided interest in
each of the two nuclear-fueled generating units at its Susquehanna station in
Pennsylvania.  Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc. owns the remaining
10% undivided interest.  PPL's 90% share of Susquehanna's generating
capacity was 2,206 MW at December 31, 2009.  The Illinois
natural gas-fired station has a total capacity of 585 MW.



The
Montana coal-fired and hydroelectric-powered stations have a capacity of 1,286
MW.  PPL Montana's power plants are operated in conjunction with the
Western Electricity Coordinating Council.



The
Connecticut natural gas-fired station has a total capacity of 244 MW, is
operated in conjunction with ISO New England and the Northeast Power
Coordinating Council.



The New
York oil/gas-fired stations have a capacity of 159 MW.  These
generating assets are operated in conjunction with the New York ISO and the
Northeast Power Coordinating Council.  Tolling agreements are in place
for 100% of the capacity and output of this business.  See Note 9 to
the Financial Statements for additional information on the anticipated sale of
the Long Island generation business.



The Maine
hydroelectric-powered stations have a total capacity of 12 MW.  The
Maine generating assets are operated in conjunction with ISO New England and the
Northeast Power Coordinating Council.  See Note 9 to the Financial
Statements for information on the November 2009 sale of the majority of the
Maine hydroelectric business, the sale of PPL's interest in an oil-fired unit in
Maine and the conditional agreement of sale for the remaining three
hydroelectric facilities.



PPL
Generation has current plans for capital projects at certain of its generation
facilities in Pennsylvania and Montana to provide 239 MW of additional
generation capacity for its use by 2014.  See "Item 2. Properties -
Supply Segment" for additional information regarding these capital
projects.



Refer to
the "Power Supply" section for additional information regarding electricity
generated by the power plants operated by PPL Generation and to the "Fuel
Supply" section for a discussion of fuel requirements and contractual
arrangements for fuel.



A
subsidiary of PPL Energy Supply develops renewable energy plants on various
sites using technologies such as turbines, reciprocating engines and
photovoltaic solar panels.  Included in PPL Energy Supply's owned or
controlled generating capacity reported in "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment"
is approximately 28 MW of installed capacity from these projects that serve
commercial and industrial customers.



Certain
PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of certain
federal, regional, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to air and
water quality, land use and other environmental matters.  PPL
Susquehanna is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the
operation of the Susquehanna units.  Certain of PPL Energy Supply's
other subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with
the operation of their fossil plants with respect to certain level and density
monitoring devices.



Certain
operations of PPL Generation's subsidiaries are subject to the Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state statutes.



Energy
      Marketing



PPL
EnergyPlus sells the electricity produced by PPL Generation subsidiaries, along
with purchased power, FTRs, natural gas, oil, uranium, emission allowances and
RECs in competitive wholesale and deregulated retail markets in order to take
advantage of opportunities in the competitive energy marketplace.



PPL
EnergyPlus purchases and sells electric capacity and energy at the wholesale
level at competitive prices under FERC market-based prices.  PPL
EnergyPlus enters into these agreements to market available energy and capacity
from PPL Generation's assets and to profit from market price
fluctuations.  Within the constraints of its hedging policy, PPL
EnergyPlus actively manages its portfolios to optimize the value of PPL's
generating assets and to limit exposure to price fluctuations.  PPL
EnergyPlus also enters into over-the-counter and futures contracts to purchase
and sell energy and other commodity-based financial instruments in accordance
with PPL's risk management policies, objectives and strategies.



PPL
EnergyPlus had contracted to provide electricity to PPL Electric sufficient for
it to meet its PLR obligation through 2009 at the predetermined capped rates PPL
Electric was entitled to charge its customers.  These contracts
accounted for 29% of PPL Energy Supply's operating revenues in 2009 and expired
December 31, 2009.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for more
information concerning these contracts.



PPL
EnergyPlus is licensed to provide retail electric supply to customers in
Delaware, Maine, Massachusetts, Maryland, Montana, New Jersey and Pennsylvania
and provides electricity to industrial and commercial customers in Montana and
Pennsylvania.  PPL EnergyPlus provides natural gas to customers in
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland.



Competition



The
unregulated businesses and markets in which PPL and its subsidiaries participate
are highly competitive.  Since the early 1990s, there has been
increased competition in U.S. energy markets because of federal and state
deregulation initiatives.  For example, in 1992 the Energy Act amended
the Federal Power Act to provide open access to electric transmission systems
for wholesale transactions.  In 1996, the Customer Choice Act was
enacted in Pennsylvania to restructure the state's electric utility industry to
create a competitive market for electricity generation.  Certain other
states in which PPL's subsidiaries operate have also adopted "customer choice"
plans to allow customers to choose their electricity supplier.  PPL
and its subsidiaries believe that competition in deregulated energy markets will
continue to be intense.



The
Supply segment faces competition in wholesale markets for available energy,
capacity and ancillary services.  Competition is impacted by
electricity and fuel prices, new market entrants, construction by others of
generating assets, technological advances in power generation, the actions of
environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors.  The
Supply segment primarily competes with other electricity suppliers based on its
ability to aggregate generation supply at competitive prices from different
sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and
transmission from electric utilities and ISOs.  Competitors in
wholesale power markets include regulated utilities, industrial companies,
non-utility generators, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities and
other energy marketers.  See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to
Supply Segment" and PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -
Overview" for more information concerning the risks faced with respect to
competition in deregulated energy markets.



Power
      Supply



PPL
Energy Supply's owned or controlled system capacity (winter rating) at
December 31, 2009 was 11,719 MW.  The capacity of generating
units is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and
physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect
changes in circumstances.  See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment"
for a description of PPL Energy Supply's plants at December 31,
2009.



During
2009, PPL Energy Supply's plants, excluding renewable facilities that are
discussed separately below, generated the following amounts of
electricity.

StateMillions of
      kWhPennsylvania46,019Montana8,120Maine261Connecticut108New
      York (a)Illinois64Total54,572(a)72
      million kWhs were excluded as tolling agreements were in place for 100% of
      the output.Of this generation, 49%
of the energy was from coal-fired stations, 32% from nuclear operations at the
Susquehanna station, 11% from oil/gas-fired stations and 8% from hydroelectric
stations.



PPL
Energy Supply estimates that, on average, approximately 94% of its total
expected annual generation output for 2010 will be used to meet EnergyPlus'
committed contractual sales.  PPL Energy Supply has also entered into
commitments of varying quantities and terms for the years 2011 and
beyond.  These commitments are consistent with, and integral to, PPL
Energy Supply's business strategy to capture profits while managing exposure to
adverse movements in energy and fuel prices.  See "Commodity
Volumetric Activity" in Note 18 to the Financial Statements for the strategies
PPL Energy Supply employs to optimize the value of its wholesale and retail
energy portfolio.



Subsidiaries
of PPL Energy Supply controlled existing renewable energy projects located in
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Vermont and New Hampshire with capacity of
28 MW.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the energy and RECs produced by
these plants to commercial, industrial and institutional
customers.  During 2009, these projects generated 145 million
kWhs.  In addition, a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary owns renewable
energy facilities with capacity of 6 MW that have power purchase agreements in
place.  During 2009, these projects generated 23 million
kWhs.



PPL
EnergyPlus also purchases the full output from two wind farms in Pennsylvania
with a combined capacity of 50 MW.



Fuel
      Supply



Coal



Pennsylvania



PPL
Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, actively manages PPL's coal
requirements by purchasing coal principally from mines located in central and
northern Appalachia.



During
2009, PPL Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, purchased 100% of
the coal delivered to PPL Generation's wholly owned Pennsylvania stations under
short-term and long-term contracts.  These contracts provided PPL
Generation 7.3 million tons of coal.  Contracts currently in place are
expected to provide 7.8 million tons in 2010.  The amount of coal in
inventory varies from time to time depending on market conditions and plant
operations.



PPL
Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, entered into a long-term
coal purchase agreement with CONSOL Energy Inc.  The contract will
provide more than one-third of PPL Generation's projected annual coal needs for
the Pennsylvania power plants from 2010 through 2018.  PPL Generation
has other contracts that, in total, will provide additional coal supply for
PPL's projected annual needs from 2010 through 2013.



A PPL
Generation subsidiary owns a 12.34% interest in the Keystone station and a
16.25% interest in the Conemaugh station.  The Keystone station
contracts with Keystone Fuels, LLC for its coal requirements.  In
2009, Keystone Fuels, LLC provided 4.8 million tons of coal to the Keystone
station.  The Conemaugh station requirements are purchased under
contract from Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.  In 2009, Conemaugh Fuels, LLC
provided 4.8 million tons of coal to the Conemaugh station.  A PPL
Generation subsidiary also owns a 12.34% equity interest in Keystone Fuels, LLC
and a 16.25% equity interest in Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.



Scrubbers
were placed in service at Montour in 2008 and at Brunner Island in
2009.At
December 31, 2009, scrubbers were in place at all of PPL Generation's
Pennsylvania coal stations.Contracts are in place for all the
limestone requirements for all the scrubbers at PPL Generation's wholly owned
Pennsylvania coal stations through 2010.  It is projected that annual
limestone requirements will be approximately 600,000 tons.  During
2009, approximately 325,000 tons of limestone were delivered to PPL Generation's
wholly owned Pennsylvania stations under long-term contracts.



Montana



PPL
Montana has a 50% leasehold interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2, and a 30%
leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 3.  NorthWestern owns a 30%
leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 4.  PPL Montana and NorthWestern
have a sharing agreement to govern each party's responsibilities regarding the
operation of Colstrip Units 3 and 4, and each party is responsible for 15% of
the respective operating and construction costs, regardless of whether a
particular cost is specified to Colstrip Unit 3 or 4.  However, each
party is responsible for its own fuel-related costs.  PPL Montana,
along with the other owners, is party to contracts to purchase 100% of its coal
requirements with defined coal quality characteristics and
specifications.  In 2007, PPL Montana entered into a long-term
purchase and supply agreement with the current supplier for Units 1 and 2
beginning January 1, 2010.  The contract is to provide these units
100% of their coal requirements through December 2014, and at least 85% of such
requirements from January 2015 through December 2019.  The coal supply
contract for Unit 3's requirements is in effect through December 2019.Scrubbers
are in place at all of these units.



Coal
supply contracts are in place to purchase low-sulfur coal with defined quality
characteristics and specifications for PPL Montana's Corette
station.  The contracts covered 100% of the station's coal
requirements in 2009, and similar contracts are currently in place to supply
100% of the expected coal requirements through 2012.



Oil and Natural
Gas



Pennsylvania



PPL
Generation's Martins Creek Units 3 and 4 burn both oil and natural
gas.  PPL EnergyPlus is responsible for procuring the oil and natural
gas supply for all PPL Generation operations.  During 2009, 100% of
the physical gas and oil requirements for the Martins Creek units were purchased
on the spot market.  At December 31, 2009, PPL EnergyPlus had no
long-term agreements for oil or gas.



PPL
EnergyPlus has a short-term and long-term gas transportation contract in place
for approximately 30% of the maximum daily requirements of the Lower Mt. Bethel
facility.



In 2008,
PPL EnergyPlus acquired the rights to an existing long-term tolling agreement
associated with the capacity and energy of the Ironwood facility.  PPL
EnergyPlus has long-term transportation contracts to serve approximately 25% of
Ironwood's maximum daily requirements, which begins in the fourth quarter of
2010.  For the first three quarters of 2010, Ironwood will be served
through a combination of transportation capacity release transactions and
delivered supply to the plant.  PPL EnergyPlus currently has no
long-term physical supply agreements to purchase natural gas for
Ironwood.



Illinois



At
December 31, 2009, there were no long-term delivery or supply agreements to
purchase natural gas for the University Park facility.



Connecticut



PPL
EnergyPlus has a long-term contract for approximately 40% of the expected
pipeline transportation requirements of the Wallingford facility, but has no
long-term physical supply agreement to purchase natural gas.



Nuclear



The
nuclear fuel cycle consists of several material and service
components:  the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium
concentrates; the conversion of these concentrates into uranium hexafluoride, a
gas component; the enrichment of the hexafluoride gas; the fabrication of fuel
assemblies for insertion and use in the reactor core; and the temporary storage
and final disposal of spent nuclear fuel.



PPL
Susquehanna has a portfolio of supply contracts, with varying expiration dates,
for nuclear fuel materials and services.  These contracts are expected
to provide sufficient fuel to permit Unit 1 to operate into the first quarter of
2016 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter of 2015.  PPL
Susquehanna anticipates entering into additional contracts to ensure continued
operation of the nuclear units.



Federal
law requires the federal government to provide for the permanent disposal of
commercial spent nuclear fuel.  Under the Federal Nuclear Waste Policy
Act, the DOE carried out an analysis of a site in Nevada for a permanent nuclear
waste repository.  There is no definitive date by which a repository
will be operational.  As a result, it was necessary to expand
Susquehanna's on-site spent fuel storage capacity.  To support this
expansion, PPL Susquehanna contracted for the design and construction of a spent
fuel storage facility employing dry cask fuel storage technology.  The
facility is modular, so that additional storage capacity can be added as
needed.  The facility began receiving spent nuclear fuel in
1999.  PPL Susquehanna estimates that there is sufficient storage
capacity in the spent nuclear fuel pools and the on-site spent fuel storage
facility at Susquehanna to accommodate spent fuel discharged through
approximately 2017 under current operating conditions.  If
necessary, the on-site spent fuel storage facility can be expanded, assuming
appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained.  If additional on-site
storage capacity is required, supplementary storage capacity will be
pursued.



Franchise and
      Licenses



See
"Background - Segment Information - Supply Segment - Energy Marketing" for a
discussion of PPL EnergyPlus' licenses in various states.  PPL
EnergyPlus also has an export license from the DOE to sell capacity and/or
energy to electric utilities in Canada.



PPL
Susquehanna operates Units 1 and 2 pursuant to NRC operating
licenses.  In November 2009, the NRC approved PPL Susquehanna's
application for 20-year license renewals for each of the Susquehanna units,
extending the license expiration dates to 2042 for Unit 1 and to 2044 for Unit
2.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional
information.



In 2008,
PPL Susquehanna received NRC approval for its request to increase the generation
capacity of the Susquehanna nuclear plant.  The total expected
capacity increase is 159 MW, of which PPL Susquehanna's 90% ownership share
would be 143 MW.  The first uprate for Unit 1 totaling 50 MW was
completed in 2008 and the second uprate is scheduled to be completed in
2010.  The first uprate for Unit 2 totaling 50 MW was completed in
2009, and the second uprate is scheduled to be completed in 2011.  The
remaining total capacity increase is 59 MW, of which PPL Susquehanna's share is
53 MW.PPL
Susquehanna's share of the expected capital cost for the total uprate of 143 MW
is $345 million.



In
October 2008, a PPL subsidiary submitted a COLA to the NRC for a new nuclear
generating unit (Bell Bend) to be built adjacent to the Susquehanna
plant.  The COLA was accepted for review by the NRC in December
2008.  In May 2009, the NRC published its official review schedule
that culminates with the issuance of Bell Bend's final safety evaluation report
in 2012.  See Note 8 to Financial Statements for additional
information.



PPL
Holtwood operates the Holtwood hydroelectric generating station pursuant to a
license that was recently extended by the FERC to expire in 2030.  PPL
Holtwood operates the Wallenpaupack hydroelectric generating station pursuant to
a license renewed by the FERC in 2005 and expiring in 2044.  PPL
Holtwood also owns one-third of the capital stock of Safe Harbor Water Power
Corporation (Safe Harbor), which holds a project license that extends the
operation of its hydroelectric generating station until 2030.  The
total capacity of the Safe Harbor generating station is 421 MW, and PPL Holtwood
is entitled by contract to one-third of the total capacity.



In 2007,
PPL requested FERC approval to expand its Holtwood plant by 125
MW.  In 2008, PPL withdrew the application in light of prevailing
economic conditions, including the high cost of capital and projections of
future energy prices.  PPL reconsidered its Holtwood expansion project
in view of the tax incentives and potential loan guarantees for renewable energy
projects contained in the Economic Stimulus Package.  In April 2009,
PPL resubmitted the expansion application to FERC and in October 2009, the FERC
approved the request to expand the plant and extended the operating license
through August 2030.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for
additional information.



The 11
hydroelectric facilities and one storage reservoir in Montana are licensed by
the FERC.  These licenses expire periodically and the generating
facilities must be relicensed at such times.  The FERC license for the
Mystic facility expired in 2009 but has been extended, effective January 1,
2010, for an additional 40-year term.  The Thompson Falls and Kerr
licenses expire in 2025 and 2035, respectively; and the licenses for the nine
Missouri-Madison facilities expire in 2040.



In
connection with the relicensing of these generation facilities, the FERC may,
under applicable law, relicense the original licensee or license a new licensee,
or the U.S. government may take over the facility.  If the original
licensee is not relicensed, it is compensated for its net investment in the
facility, not to exceed the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable
damages to other property affected by the lack of relicensing.



·Pennsylvania Delivery
      Segment -Includes
      the regulated electric delivery operations of PPL
  Electric.



PPL
      Electric



PPL
Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a
10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central
Pennsylvania.  The largest cities in this territory are Allentown,
Bethlehem, Harrisburg, Hazleton, Lancaster, Scranton, Wilkes-Barre and
Williamsport.



PPL
Electric is the sole electricity distribution provider in its service territory,
and also provides electricity supply in that territory as a
PLR.As part of the PUC Final Order, PPL Electric agreed to
supply this electricity at predetermined capped rates through
2009.  PPL Electric entered into two contracts to purchase electricity
from PPL EnergyPlus sufficient for PPL Electric to meet its PLR obligation
through 2009 at the capped rates.  As discussed below, PPL Electric's
PLR obligation after 2009 is governed by the PUC pursuant to the Public Utility
Code as amended by Act 129, PLR regulations and a policy statement regarding
interpretation and implementation of those regulations.  Both the
regulations and the policy statement became effective in September
2007.  The PUC has approved PPL Electric's procurement plans for 2010
and for the period from January 2011 through May 2013.  Refer to Notes
14 and 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



During
2009, about 98% of PPL Electric's operating revenues were derived from regulated
electricity delivery and supply as a PLR.  The remaining 2009
operating revenues were from wholesale revenues, primarily the sale to PPL
EnergyPlus of power purchased from NUGs.  During 2009, about 46% of
electricity delivery and PLR revenues were from residential customers, 37% from
commercial customers, 16% from industrial customers and 1% from other customer
classes.



PPL
Electric's transmission facilities are operated as part of PJM, which operates
the electric transmission network and electric energy market in the mid-Atlantic
and Midwest regions of the U.S.  Bulk electricity is transmitted to
wholesale users throughout a geographic area including all or part of Delaware,
Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of
Columbia.  As of January 1, 2006, PPL Electric became a member of the
RFC.  The purpose of the RFC is to preserve and enhance electric
service reliability and security for the interconnected electric systems within
its territory and to be a regional entity under the framework of the
NERC.  The RFC's key functions are the development of regional
standards for reliable planning and operation of the bulk electric system and
non-discriminatory compliance monitoring and enforcement of both NERC and
regional standards.



PJM
serves as a FERC-approved RTO in order to promote greater participation and
competition in the region.  An RTO, like an ISO, is a designation
provided by the FERC to a FERC-approved independent entity that operates the
transmission system and typically administers a competitive power
market.  PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity
and ancillary services.  A primary purpose of the RTO/ISO is to
separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market
participants that buy or sell electricity in the same
markets.  Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets,
but the RTO/ISO directs the control and operation of the transmission
facilities.  PPL Electric is entitled to fully recover from retail
customers the charges that it pays to PJM for transmission-related
services.  PJM imposes these charges pursuant to its FERC-approved
Open Access Transmission Tariff.



PPL
Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of
its activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal
Power Act.



PPL
Electric also is subject to the jurisdiction of certain federal, regional, state
and local regulatory agencies with respect to land use and other environmental
matters.  Certain operations of PPL Electric are subject to the
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state
statutes.



In
November 2004, Pennsylvania enacted the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard
(the AEPS), which requires electric distribution companies, such as PPL
Electric, and retail electric suppliers serving retail load to ultimately
provide 18% of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania from
alternative energy sources by 2020.  Under this state law, alternative
energy sources include hydro, wind, solar, waste coal, landfill methane and fuel
cells.  An electric distribution company will pay an alternative
compliance payment of $45 (or, in the case of solar, 200% of the average market
value of solar credits) for each MWh that it is short of its required
alternative energy supply percentage.  PPL Electric became subject to
the requirements of this legislation beginning in 2010.  In 2010, PPL
Electric is required to supply about 9% of the total amount of electricity it
delivers to its PLR customers from alternative energy sources.  PPL
Electric has purchased all of the supply required to meet its 2010 default
service obligations pursuant to a PUC-approved Competitive Bridge Plan (the
Plan).  Under the Plan, PPL Electric obtained full requirements
service which includes the generation or credits that PPL Electric will need to
comply with the AEPS in 2010.



Act 129
became effective in October 2008.  The law creates an energy
efficiency and conservation program and smart metering technology requirements,
adopts new PLR electricity supply procurement rules, provides remedies for
market misconduct, and makes changes to the existing AEPS.



See
"Regulatory Issues - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 14 to the Financial
Statements for additional information regarding Act 129, other legislative and
regulatory impacts and PPL Electric's actions to provide default electricity
supply for periods after 2009.



Competition



Pursuant
to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PUC, PPL
Electric operates a regulated distribution monopoly in its service
area.  Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its
electricity distribution business.



Effective
January 1, 2010, PPL Electric's rates for generation supply as a PLR are no
longer capped and the cost of electric generation is based on a competitive
solicitation process.  Prior to the expiration of the generation rate
caps, PPL Electric's customers' interest in purchasing generation supply from
other providers was limited because, in recent years, the long-term supply
agreement between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus provided a below-market cost
of generation supply for these customers.  As a result, a limited
amount of "shopping" occurred.  In 2010, several alternative suppliers
have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service
territory.When its
customers purchase supply from these alternative suppliers or from PPL Electric
as PLR, the purchase of such supply has no significant impact on the operating
results of PPL Electric.  The cost to purchase PLR supply is passed
directly by PPL Electric to its customers without markup.PPL
Electric remains the distribution provider for all the customers in its service
territory and charges a regulated rate for the service of delivering that
electricity.



Provider of Last
      Resort Supply



The
Customer Choice Act requires electric distribution companies, like PPL Electric,
to act as a PLR of electricity supply and provides that electricity supply costs
will be recovered by such companies pursuant to regulations established by the
PUC.  In May 2007, the PUC approved PPL Electric's plan to procure
default electricity supply for 2010 - after its current supply agreements with
PPL EnergyPlus expire - for retail customers who do not choose an alternative
competitive supplier.  Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric completed
six competitive supply solicitations and has contracted for all of the 2010
electricity supply it expects to need for residential, small commercial and
small industrial customers.  In October 2009, PPL Electric purchased
supply for fixed-price default service to large commercial and large industrial
customers who elect to take that service in 2010.  In November 2009,
PPL Electric purchased supply to provide hourly default service to large
commercial and industrial customers in 2010.  See "Energy Purchase
Commitments" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for additional information
regarding PPL Electric's solicitations for 2010 and its actions to provide
default electricity supply for periods after 2010.



Franchise and
      Licenses



PPL
Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its
service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in
corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies to which it has succeeded and
as a result of certification by the PUC.  PPL Electric is granted the
right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain
conditions.  In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance,
resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local
political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.



·International Delivery
      Segment -Includes
      WPD, a regulated electricity distribution company in the
    U.K.



WPD,
through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, operates two of the 15 distribution
networks providing electricity service in the U.K.  The WPD
subsidiaries together serve approximately 2.6 million end-users in the
U.K.  WPD (South West) serves 1.5 million customers in a 5,560 square
mile area of southwest England.  WPD (South Wales) serves an area of
Wales opposite the Bristol Channel from WPD (South West)'s
territory.  Its 1.1 million customers occupy 4,550 square miles within
Wales.  WPD is headquartered in Bristol, England.  See
"Franchise and Licenses" for additional information about WPD's regulator,
Ofgem, which sets price controls and grants distribution licenses.



Competition



Although
WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces
little competition with respect to residential customers.  See
"Franchises and Licenses" for more information.



Franchise and
      Licenses



WPD is
authorized by the U.K. government to provide electric distribution services
within its concession areas and service territories, subject to certain
conditions and obligations.  For instance, WPD is subject to
governmental regulation of the prices it can charge and the quality of service
it must provide, and WPD can be fined or have its licenses revoked if it does
not meet the mandated standard of service.



WPD
operates under distribution licenses granted, and price controls set, by
Ofgem.  The price control formula that governs WPD's allowed revenue
is normally determined every five years. Ofgem completed a rate review in
December 2009 for the five-year period from April 1, 2010 through March 31,
2015.  See PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Results of Operations -
Segment Results - International Delivery Segment" in "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for
additional information.



SEASONALITY



Demand
for and market prices of electricity are affected by weather.  As a
result, PPL's overall operating results in the future may fluctuate
substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when more severe weather
conditions such as heat waves or winter storms make such fluctuations more
pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on
the type and location of the facilities PPL owns and the terms of its contracts
to purchase or sell electricity.



FINANCIAL
CONDITION



See
PPL's, PPL Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's "Item 7. Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this
information.



CAPITAL
EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS



See
"Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash
- - Capital Expenditures" in PPL's, PPL Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's "Item
7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" for information concerning projected capital expenditure
requirements for the years 2010-2012.  See Note 14 to the Financial
Statements for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital
expenditures from environmental matters.



ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS



PPL and
certain PPL subsidiaries, including PPL Electric and PPL Generation
subsidiaries, are subject to certain existing and developing federal, regional,
state and local laws and regulations with respect to air and water quality, land
use and other environmental matters.  See PPL's and PPL Energy
Supply's "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" in
"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" for
information concerning environmental capital expenditures during 2009 and
projected environmental capital expenditures for the years
2010-2012.  See "Environmental Matters" in Note 14 to the Financial
Statements for information regarding these laws and regulations and the status
of PPL's and its subsidiaries' compliance and remediation activities, as well as
legal and regulatory proceedings involving PPL and its
subsidiaries.



PPL and
its subsidiaries are unable to predict the ultimate effect of evolving
environmental laws and regulations upon their existing and proposed facilities
and operations and competitive positions.  In complying with statutes,
regulations and actions by regulatory bodies involving environmental matters,
including, among other things, air and water quality, greenhouse gas emissions,
hazardous and solid waste management and disposal, and regulation of toxic
substances, PPL's subsidiaries may be required to modify, replace or cease
operating certain of their facilities.  PPL's subsidiaries may also
incur significant capital expenditures and operating expenses in amounts which
are not now determinable, but could be significant.



EMPLOYEE
RELATIONS



As of
December 31, 2009, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time
employees.



PPL
      Energy SupplyPPL
      Generation2,665PPL
      EnergyPlus2,020(a)PPL
      Global (primarily WPD)2,369Total
      PPL Energy Supply7,054PPL
      Electric2,166PPL
      Services and other1,269Total
      PPL10,489



(a)Includes
      union employees of mechanical contracting subsidiaries, whose numbers tend
      to fluctuate due to the nature of this
business.



Approximately
4,980, or 61%, of PPL's domestic workforce are members of labor unions, with
three IBEW locals representing approximately 3,540 employees.  Other
unions primarily represent employees of the mechanical
contractors.  The bargaining agreement with the largest IBEW local was
negotiated in May 2006 and expires in May 2010.  This agreement covers
approximately 3,200 employees.  The IBEW, representing approximately
260 employees at the Montana Colstrip power plants, is covered under a four-year
labor agreement expiring in April 2012.  In January 2008, a
four-year contract that expires in April 2012 was renegotiated with the IBEW
local of Montana that represents approximately 80 employees at the hydroelectric
facilities and at the Corette plant.



Approximately
1,860, or 79%, of PPL's U.K. workforce are members of labor
unions.  WPD recognizes five unions, the largest of which represents
37% of its union workforce.  WPD's Electricity Business Agreement
covers approximately 1,810 union employees; it may be amended by agreement
between WPD and the unions and is terminable with 12 months notice by either
side.



See
"Separation Benefits" in Note 12 to the Financial Statements for information on
a 2009 cost reduction initiative, which resulted in the elimination of
approximately 200 domestic management and staff positions at PPL.



AVAILABLE
INFORMATION



PPL's
Internet Web site is www.pplweb.com.  On the Investor Center page of
that Web site, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of PPL, PPL Energy Supply
and PPL Electric free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing
with the SEC.  Additionally, PPL registrants' filings are available at
the SEC's Web site (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.

