ITEM 1. BUSINESS



BACKGROUND



PPL Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is an energy and utility holding company that was incorporated in 1994.  Through its subsidiaries, PPL generates electricity from power plants in the northeastern, northwestern and southeastern U.S.; markets wholesale or retail energy primarily in the northeastern and northwestern portions of the U.S.; delivers electricity to customers in Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia, Tennessee and the U.K. and natural gas to customers in Kentucky.



In 2011 and 2010, PPL completed two acquisitions:



·On April 1, 2011, PPL, through its indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, PPL WEM, completed its acquisition of all the outstanding ordinary share capital of Central Networks East plc and Central Networks Limited, the sole owner of Central Networks West plc, together with certain other related assets and liabilities (collectively referred to as Central Networks and subsequently renamed WPD Midlands), from subsidiaries of E.ON AG.  The consideration for the acquisition consisted of cash of $5.8 billion, including the repayment of $1.7 billion of affiliate indebtedness owed to subsidiaries of E.ON AG and $800 million of long-term debt assumed through consolidation.  WPD Midlands operates two regulated distribution networks that serve five million end-users in the Midlands area of England.



·On November 1, 2010, PPL acquired all of the limited liability company interests of E.ON U.S. LLC from a wholly owned subsidiary of E.ON AG.  Upon completion of the acquisition, E.ON U.S. LLC was renamed LG&E and KU Energy LLC (LKE).  LKE is engaged in regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG&E and KU.  The consideration for the acquisition consisted of cash of $6.8 billion, including the repayment of $4.3 billion of affiliate indebtedness owed to subsidiaries of E.ON AG, and $800 million of debt assumed through consolidation.



·See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information on both acquisitions.





The acquisitions of WPD Midlands and LKE:  (1) substantially reapportion the mix of PPL's regulated and competitive businesses by increasing the regulated portion of its business; (2) strengthen PPL's credit profile; and (3) enhance rate-regulated growth opportunities as the regulated businesses make investments to meet environmental compliance requirements and improve infrastructure and customer reliability.  The investment in regulated assets also provides earnings stability through regulated returns and the ability to recover prudently incurred capital investments, in contrast to the competitive supply business where earnings and cash flows are subject to market conditions.  At December 31, 2011, PPL had:



·$12.7 billion in operating revenues (including eight months from WPD Midlands, which are recorded on a one-month lag)



·10.5 million end-users of its utility services (including 5 million end-users served by the WPD Midlands companies)



·Approximately 19,000 MW of generation



·Approximately 18,000 full-time employees

In January 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its 100% membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding (the parent holding company of PPL Energy Supply and PPL Global with no other material operations), to better align PPL's organizational structure with the manner in which it manages its businesses and reports segment information in its consolidated financial statements.  The distribution separated the U.S.-based competitive energy marketing and supply business from the U.K.-based regulated electricity distribution business.  See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



At December 31, 2011 PPL's principal subsidiaries are shown below (* denotes an SEC registrant; LKE, LG&E and KU became SEC registrants effective June 1, 2011):










In addition to PPL Corporation, the other SEC registrants included in this filing are:



PPL Energy Supply, LLC, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PPL formed in 2000 and is an energy company engaged through its subsidiaries in the generation and marketing of electricity, primarily in the northeastern and northwestern power markets of the U.S.  PPL Energy Supply's major operating subsidiaries are PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Generation.  As noted above, in January 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its 100% membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding.  For 2010 and 2009, the operating results of PPL Global, which represents the International Regulated segment, are classified as Discontinued Operations.  At December 31, 2011, PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled 10,508 MW of electric power generation capacity and is implementing capital projects at certain of its existing generation facilities in Pennsylvania and Montana to provide 191 MW of additional generating capacity by the end of 2013.



PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a direct subsidiary of PPL incorporated in 1920 and a regulated public utility.  PPL Electric delivers electricity in its Pennsylvania service territory and provides electricity supply to retail customers in that territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.



LG&E and KU Energy LLC,headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a holding company with regulated utility operations through its subsidiaries, LG&E and KU, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL.  LKE, formed in 2003, is the successor to a Kentucky entity incorporated in 1989.



Louisville Gas and Electric Company,headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky.  LG&E was incorporated in Kentucky in 1913.  At December 31, 2011, LG&E owned 3,352 MW of electric power generation capacity and, subject to certain regulatory approvals, is implementing capital projects at certain of its existing generation facilities to provide 483 MW of additional generating capacity by 2016.  LG&E also anticipates retiring 563 MW of generating capacity by the end of 2015 to meet certain environmental regulations.  LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail native load.



Kentucky Utilities Company,headquartered in Lexington, Kentucky, is a regulated utility engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky, Virginia and Tennessee.  KU was incorporated in Kentucky in 1912 and Virginia in 1991.  KU serves its Virginia customers under the Old Dominion Power name while its Kentucky and Tennessee customers are served under the KU name.  At December 31, 2011, KU owned 4,833 MW of electric power generation capacity and, subject to certain regulatory approvals, is implementing capital projects at certain of its existing generation facilities to provide 652 MW of additional generating capacity by 2016.  KU also anticipates retiring 234 MW of generating capacity by the end of 2015 to meet certain environmental regulations.  KU and LG&E jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail native load.



PPL's utility subsidiaries, and to a lesser extent, certain of its competitive supply subsidiaries, are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC including:  wholesale sales of power and related transactions, electric transmission service, accounting practices, issuances and sales of securities, acquisitions and sales of utility properties and payments of dividends.  PPL and LKE are subject to certain FERC regulations as holding companies under PUHCA and the Federal Power Act,






including with respect to accounting and record-keeping, inter-system sales of non-power goods and services and acquisitions of securities in, or mergers with, certain types of electric utility companies.



Successor and Predecessor Financial Presentation(LKE, LG&E and KU)



LKE's, LG&E's and KU's Financial Statements and related financial and operating data include the periods before and after PPL's acquisition of LKE on November 1, 2010 and have been segregated to present pre-acquisition activity as the Predecessor and post-acquisition activity as the Successor.  Predecessor activity covers the time period prior to November 1, 2010.  Successor activity covers the time period after October 31, 2010.  Certain accounting and presentation methods were changed to acceptable alternatives to conform to PPL's accounting policies, and the cost bases of certain assets and liabilities were changed as of November 1, 2010 as a result of the application of push-down accounting.  Consequently, the financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the Successor periods are not comparable to the Predecessor periods; however, the core operations of LKE, LG&E and KU have not changed as a result of the acquisition.



Segment Information



(PPL)



Following the November 1, 2010 acquisition of LKE, PPL is organized into four reportable segments:  Kentucky Regulated, International Regulated, Pennsylvania Regulated and Supply.  There were no changes to reportable segments in 2011.



(PPL Energy Supply)



In 2011, PPL Energy Supply operated in a single reportable segment.  Prior to 2011, PPL Energy Supply's segments consisted of Supply and International Regulated.  In January 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its 100% membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding, to better align PPL's organizational structure with the manner in which it manages its businesses and reports segment information in its consolidated financial statements.  For 2010 and 2009, the operating results of PPL Global, which represent the International Regulated segment, are classified as discontinued operations.



(PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)



PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU each operate in a single reportable segment.



(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)



See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for financial information about the segments and geographic financial data.



·Kentucky Regulated Segment (PPL)Consists of the operations of LKE, which owns and operates regulated public utilities engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and the distribution and sale of natural gas, representing primarily the activities of LG&E and KU.  The Kentucky Regulated segment also includes interest expense related to the 2010 Equity Units that were issued to partially finance the acquisition of LKE.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



LKE became a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL on November 1, 2010.  LG&E and KU are engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, Virginia and Tennessee.  LG&E also engages in the distribution and sale of natural gas in Kentucky.  LG&E provides electric service to approximately 394,000 customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky, covering approximately 700 square miles in 9 counties.  LG&E provides natural gas service to approximately 319,000 customers in its electric service area and 7 additional counties in Kentucky.  KU provides electric service to approximately 512,000 customers in 77 counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky; approximately 29,000 customers in 5 counties in southwestern Virginia; and fewer than 10 customers in Tennessee, covering approximately 4,800 non-contiguous square miles.  KU also sells wholesale electricity to 12 municipalities in Kentucky under load following contracts.  In Virginia, KU operates under the name Old Dominion Power Company.






Acquisition by PPL



In September 2010, the KPSC approved a settlement agreement among PPL and all of the intervening parties to PPL's joint application to the KPSC for approval of its acquisition of ownership and control of LKE.  In the settlement agreement, the parties agreed that LG&E and KU would commit that no base rate increases would take effect before January 1, 2013.  The rate increases for LG&E and KU that took effect on August 1, 2010 (as described below) are not impacted by the settlement.  Under the terms of the settlement, LG&E and KU retain the right to seek approval for the deferral of "extraordinary and uncontrollable costs."  Interim rate adjustments will continue to be permissible during that period through existing fuel, environmental and demand side management recovery mechanisms.  The agreement also substitutes an acquisition savings shared deferral mechanism for the previous commitment that LG&E and KU file a synergies plan with the KPSC post-closing.  This mechanism, which will be in place until the earlier of five years or the first day of the year in which a base rate increase becomes effective, permits LG&E and KU to each earn up to a 10.75% return on equity.  Any earnings above a 10.75% return on equity will be shared with customers on a 50%/50% basis.  The KPSC Order and the settlement agreement contained a number of other commitments by LG&E and KU with regard to operations, workforce, community involvement and other matters.



In October 2010, both the VSCC and the TRA approved the transfer of control of LKE to PPL.  Certain of these Orders contained additional commitments with regard to operations, workforce, community involvement and other matters.



Also in October 2010, the FERC approved the application for the transfer of control of the utilities.  The approval includes various conditional commitments, such as a continuation of certain existing undertakings with intervenors in prior cases, an agreement not to terminate certain KU municipal customer contracts prior to January 2017, an exclusion of any transaction-related costs from wholesale energy and tariff customer rates to the extent that LG&E and KU have agreed not to seek recovery of the same transaction-related cost from retail customers and agreements to coordinate with intervenors in certain open or ongoing matters.



See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on regulatory matters related to the acquisition.



Franchises and Licenses



LG&E and KU provide electric delivery service, and LG&E provides natural gas distribution service, in their various service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities.



Competition



There are currently no other electric public utilities operating within the electric service areas of LKE.  Neither the Kentucky General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky.  The nature or timing of any legislative or regulatory actions regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LKE, which may be significant, cannot currently be predicted.  Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation which implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation.  KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated.



Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane and other fuels provide indirect competition for natural gas revenues of LKE.  Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to certain large end-users.  LG&E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural gas as a commodity; therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact profitability.  However, some large industrial and commercial customers may physically bypass LG&E's facilities and seek delivery service directly from interstate pipelines or other natural gas distribution systems.



In April 2010, the KPSC commenced a proceeding to investigate the regulatory, financial and operational aspects of natural gas retail competition programs and the potential benefits to Kentucky consumers.  A number of entities, including LG&E, were parties to the proceeding.  In December 2010, the KPSC issued an Order in the proceeding declining to endorse natural gas competition at the retail level, noting the existence of a number of transition or oversight costs and an uncertain level of economic benefits in such programs.  With respect to existing natural gas transportation programs available to large commercial or industrial users, the Order indicates that the KPSC will review utilities' current tariff structures, user thresholds and other terms and conditions of such programs, as part of such utilities' next regular natural gas rate cases.








Operating Revenues



LG&E serves approximately 394,000 electricity customers, and its electric transmission and distribution system territory covers more than 700 square miles in 9 counties.  KU serves approximately 541,000 electricity customers, and its transmission and distribution system territory covers more than 4,800 non-contiguous square miles in 82 counties.  LG&E purchases, transports, distributes or stores natural gas for approximately 319,000 customers in Kentucky.  LG&E's natural gas service area covers more than 3,600 square miles in 16 counties.  In 2011, 27% of LG&E's annual natural gas throughput was purchased by large commercial and industrial customers directly from alternate suppliers for delivery through LG&E's distribution system.



(PPL)



Details of operating revenues for the Kentucky Regulated segment by customer class for the year ended December 31, 2011 and the two months ended December 31, 2010 are shown below.

20112010% of% ofRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueIndustrial and commercial$1,25245$20942Residential1,0873921944Retail - other2699429Wholesale - municipal1044153Wholesale - other81382Total$2,793100$493100



(LKE, LG&E and KU)



Details of operating revenues by customer class are shown below.



SuccessorPredecessorYear EndedTwo Months EndedTen Months EndedYear EndedDecember 31, 2011December 31, 2010October 31, 2010December 31, 2009% of% of% of% ofRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueRevenueLKEIndustrial and commercial$1,25245$20942$99745$1,11244Residential1,0873921944886401,02041Retail - other2699439212102279Wholesale - municipal1044153884914Wholesale - other (a)81382311512Total$2,793100$494100$2,214100$2,501100LG&EIndustrial and commercial$52438$9236$40939$47537Residential56141113444464254042Retail - other130102299891099Wholesale - other (a) (b)1491127111041014812Total$1,364100$254100$1,057100$1,272100KUIndustrial and commercial$72847$11744$58847$63747Residential52634106404403548035Retail - other139921811491189Wholesale - municipal1047156887917Wholesale - other (a) (b)51342182292Total$1,548100$263100$1,248100$1,355100



(a)Includes wholesale and transmission revenues.

(b)Includes intercompany power sales and transmission revenues, which are eliminated upon consolidation at LKE.






(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



Power Supply



At December 31, 2011, LKE owned, controlled or had an ownership interest in generating capacity (summer rating) of 8,185 MW, of which 3,352 MW related to LG&E and 4,833 MW related to KU, in Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio.  See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list of LKE's generating facilities.



The system capacity of LKE's owned or controlled generation is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances.



During 2011, LKE's power plants generated the following amounts of electricity.



Thousands of MWhsLKELG&EKUFuel SourceSoutheasternMidwesternSoutheasternMidwesternSoutheasternMidwesternCoal (a)33,8971,13215,29178318,606349Oil / Gas497175322Hydro29020882Total34,6841,13215,67478319,010349Overall total (b)35,81616,45719,359



(a)The Midwestern generation represents power generated by and purchased from OVEC.

(b)This generation represents a 1% increase for LKE, a 7% decrease for LG&E and an 8% increase for KU from 2010 output.



A significant portion of LG&E's and KU's generated electricity was used to supply its retail and municipal customer base.



LG&E and KU jointly dispatch their generation units with the lowest cost generation used to serve their retail native load.  When LG&E has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail native load and its generation cost is lower than that of KU, KU purchases electricity from LG&E.  When KU has excess generation capacity after serving its own retail native load and its generation cost is lower than that of LG&E, LG&E purchases electricity from KU.



See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for additional information regarding LG&E's and KU's plans for capital projects, subject to certain regulatory approvals, that are expected to provide 483 MW and 652 MW of additional electric generating capacity by 2016.  LG&E and KU also anticipate retiring 563 MW and 234 MW of generating capacity by the end of 2015 to meet certain environmental regulations.



Fuel Supply



Coal is expected to be the predominant fuel used by LG&E and KU for baseload generation for the foreseeable future, with natural gas and oil being used for intermediate and peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers.



Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units.  Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating difficulties.



LG&E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2016 and normally augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases.



For their existing units, LG&E and KU expect for the foreseeable future to purchase most of their coal from western Kentucky, southern Indiana, southern Illinois and Ohio.  The use of high sulfur coal will increase in 2012 due to the installation of scrubbers at KU's E.W. Brown plant.  In 2012 and beyond, LG&E and KU may purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at TC2.  Coal is delivered to the generating plants by barge, truck and rail.






(PPL, LKE and LG&E)



Natural Gas Supply



Five underground natural gas storage fields, with a current working natural gas capacity of approximately 15 Bcf, are used in providing natural gas service to LG&E's firm sales customers.  By using natural gas storage facilities, LG&E avoids the costs typically associated with more expensive pipeline transportation capacity to serve peak winter heating loads.  Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal during the following winter heating season.  Without this storage capacity, LG&E would be required to purchase additional natural gas and pipeline transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases and the prices for natural gas supply and transportation services are typically at their highest.  Several suppliers under contracts of varying duration provide competitively priced natural gas.  At December 31, 2011, LG&E had an 11 Bcf inventory balance of natural gas stored underground with a carrying value of $53 million.



LG&E has a portfolio of supply arrangements of varying terms with a number of suppliers designed to meet its firm sales obligations.  These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions that are market-responsive.  In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability and flexibility necessary to serve LG&E's natural gas customers.



LG&E purchases natural gas supply transportation services from two pipelines.  LG&E has contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG&E between 2013 and 2018.  Total winter capacity under these contracts is 195,000 MMBtu/day and summer capacity is 88,000 MMBtu/day.  LG&E has a contract with the other pipeline that expires in October 2012.  Total winter and summer capacity under this contract is 51,000 MMBtu/day during both seasons.  That contract has been renegotiated through 2014 for a total capacity of 20,000 MMBtu/day during both the winter and summer seasons beginning in November 2012.



(PPL, LKE, LG&E and KU)



Rates and Regulation



LG&E is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and the FERC, and KU is subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC, the FERC, the VSCC and the TRA.  LG&E and KU operate under a FERC-approved open access transmission tariff.  LG&E and KU contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority, to act as their transmission reliability coordinator, and Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP), to function as their independent transmission operator, pursuant to FERC requirements.  The contract with SPP expires on August 31, 2012.  LG&E and KU have received FERC approval to transfer from SPP to TranServ International, Inc. as their independent transmission operator beginning September 1, 2012.  Approval from the KPSC is also required, and an application requesting approval was filed in January 2012.



LG&E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and notes payable) including certain adjustments to exclude non-regulated investments and environmental compliance costs recovered separately through the ECR mechanism.  As such, regulatory assets generally earn a return.



KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities, except the levelized fuel factor, are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia base rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.



KU's rates to municipal customers for wholesale requirements are calculated based on annual updates to a rate formula that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant plus working capital less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the development of municipal rates; therefore, no return is earned on the related assets.



See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on cost recovery mechanisms.



Kentucky Rate Case



In January 2010, LG&E and KU filed applications with the KPSC requesting increases in electric base rates of approximately 12%, or $95 million for LG&E and $135 million for KU annually.  In addition, LG&E requested an increase in its natural gas base rates of approximately 8%, or $23 million annually.  In June 2010, LG&E and KU and all of the intervenors, except the Attorney General, agreed to a stipulation providing for increases in LG&E's electric base rates of $74 million annually, LG&E's natural gas base rates of $17 million annually and KU's electric base rates of $98 million annually.  All parties, except the Attorney General, jointly filed a request with the KPSC to approve such stipulation.  An Order in the proceeding






was issued in July 2010, approving all of the provisions in the stipulation.  The KPSC Order determined a return on equity range of 9.75% to 10.75% to be reasonable and noted that the stipulation was within such range.  The new rates became effective on August 1, 2010.



(PPL, LKE and KU)



Virginia Rate Case



In April 2011, KU filed an application with the VSCC requesting an increase in electric base rates for its Virginia jurisdictional customers of $9 million annually, or 14%.  In September 2011, a settlement stipulation was reached between KU and the VSCC Staff and filed with the VSCC for consideration.  In October 2011, the VSCC approved the stipulation with two modifications that were accepted by KU.  The VSCC issued an Order closing the proceeding in October 2011.  The approved revenue increase was $7 million annually, based on a return on equity of 10.3%, with new base rates effective November 1, 2011.



FERC Wholesale Rate Case



In September 2008, KU filed an application with the FERC for increases in electric base rates applicable to wholesale power sales contracts or interchange agreements involving, collectively, 12 Kentucky municipalities.  The application requested a shift from an all-in stated unit charge rate to an unbundled formula rate.  This application was approved by the FERC, and annual adjustments are made to the rates charged to the Kentucky municipalities with applications being submitted each May and revised rates taking effect on July 1.  In May 2011, KU submitted to the FERC the annual adjustments to the formula rate which incorporated certain proposed decreases.  These rates became effective as of July 1, 2011, with no issues raised by the wholesale requirements customers or the FERC.



·International Regulated Segment(PPL)Includes WPD, a regulated electricity distribution company in the U.K.



WPD, through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, operates four of the 15 distribution networks providing electricity service in the U.K.  With the April 2011 acquisition of WPD Midlands, the total number of end-users served has more than doubled totaling 7.8 million across 21,585 square miles in Wales, southwest and central England.  See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the acquisition.



Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31 are shown below.



201120102009Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueUtility revenues (a)$1,61898$72796$68496Energy-related businesses352344324Total$1,653100$761100$716100



(a)The amounts for 2011 are not comparable to 2010 or 2009 as WPD Midlands was acquired in April 2011.  2011 includes eight months of activity as WPD Midlands' results are recorded on a one-month lag.



WPD's energy-related businesses revenues include ancillary activities that support the distribution business, including telecommunications and real estate.  WPD's telecommunication revenues are from the rental of fiber optic cables primarily attached to WPD's overhead electricity distribution network.  WPD also provides meter services to businesses across the U.K.



Franchise and Licenses



WPD is authorized by Ofgem to provide electric distribution services within its concession areas and service territories, subject to certain conditions and obligations.  For instance, WPD is subject to Ofgem regulation of the prices it can charge and the quality of service it must provide, and WPD can be fined or have its licenses revoked if it does not meet the mandated standard of service.






Competition



Although WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces little competition with respect to end-users connected to its network.  WPD's four distribution businesses, WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales), WPD (West Midlands) and WPD (East Midlands), are thus regulated monopolies which operate under regulatory price controls.



Revenue and Regulation



The operations of WPD (South West), WPD (South Wales), WPD (East Midlands) and WPD (West Midlands) are regulated by Ofgem under the direction of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority.  The Electricity Act 1989 provides the fundamental legal framework of electricity companies and established licenses that required each of the Distribution Network Operators (DNOs) to develop, maintain and operate efficient distribution networks.  Ofgem has established a price control mechanism that restricts the amount of revenue that can be earned by regulated business and provides for an increase or reduction in revenues based on incentives or penalties for exceeding or underperforming against pre-established targets.



This regulatory structure is an incentive-based regulatory structure in comparison to the U.S. utility businesses which operate under a cost-based regulatory framework.  Under the UK regulatory structure, electricity distribution revenues are currently set every five years, but extending to eight years in the next price control period beginning in April 2015.  The revenue that DNOs can earn in each of the five years is the sum of:   i) the regulator's view of efficient operating costs, ii) a return on the capital from the RAV plus an annual adjustment for the inflation determined by Retail Price Index (RPI) for the prior calendar year, iii) a return of capital from the RAV (i.e. depreciation), and iv) certain pass-through costs over which the DNO has no control.  Additionally, incentives are provided for a range of activities including exceeding certain reliability and customer service targets.



WPD is currently operating under DPCR5 which was completed in December 2009 and is effective for the period from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2015.  Ofgem allowed WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) an average increase in total revenues, before inflationary adjustments, of 6.9% in each of the five years and WPD Midlands an average increase in total revenues, before inflationary adjustments, of 4.5% in each of the five years.  The revenue increase includes reimbursement for higher operating and capital costs to be incurred driven by additional requirements.  In DPCR5, Ofgem decoupled WPD's allowed revenue from volume delivered over the five-year price control period.  However, in any fiscal period WPD's revenue could be negatively affected if its tariffs and the volume delivered do not fully recover the allowed revenue for a given period.  Any under recovery would be recovered in the next regulatory year, but would not be recorded as a receivable in the current period.  Any over recovery would be reflected in the current period as a liability and would not be included in revenue.



In addition to providing a base revenue allowance, Ofgem has established incentive mechanisms to provide significant opportunities to enhance overall returns by improving network efficiency, reliability and customer service.  Some of the more significant incentive mechanisms under DPCR5 include:



·Interruptions Incentive Scheme (IIS) - This incentive has two major components: 1)  Customer interruptions and 2) Customer minutes lost and is designed to incentivize the DNOs to invest and operate their networks to manage and reduce both the frequency and duration of power outages experienced by customers.  The target for each DNO is based on an average of the data from the prior price control period.



Beginning April 1, 2012, an additional customer satisfaction incentive mechanism will be implemented that will include a customer satisfaction survey, a complaints metric and a measure of stakeholder engagement.  This incentive will replace the customer response telephone performance incentive that was effective April 1, 2010.



·Line Loss Incentive - This incentive existed in the prior price control review and is designed to incentivize DNOs to invest in lower loss equipment, to change the way they operate their systems to reduce losses, and to detect theft and unregistered meters.  The targets for each of WPD's four DNOs are set based on their performance during DPCR4.  In DPCR5, Ofgem introduced a two year lag in reporting losses to allow for all settlement data to be received.  WPD has a $170 million liability recorded at December 31, 2011, calculated in accordance with an accepted methodology, related to the close-out of line losses for the prior price control period, DPCR4.  Ofgem is currently consulting on the methodology used to calculate the final line loss incentive/penalty for DPCR4.  In October 2011, Ofgem issued a consultation paper citing two potential changes to the methodology, both of which would result in a reduction of the liability; however, it is uncertain at this time whether any changes will be made.  Ofgem is expected to make a decision before the end of 2012.








·Information Quality Incentive (IQI) - The IQI is designed to incentivize the DNOs to provide good quality information when they submit their business plans to Ofgem during the price control process and to execute the plan they submitted.  The IQI eliminates the distinction between capital expenditure and operating expense and instead looks at total expenditure.  Total expenditure is allocated 85% to "slow pot" which is added to RAV and recovered over 20 years through the regulatory depreciation of the RAV and 15% to "fast pot" which is recovered during the current price control review period.  The IQI then provides for incentives or penalties at the end of DPCR5 based on the ratio of actual expenditures to the expenditures submitted to Ofgem that were the basis for the revenues allowed during the five-year price control review period.



At the beginning of DPCR5, WPD was awarded $301 million in incentive revenue of which $222 million will be included in revenue throughout the current price control period with the balance recovered over subsequent price control periods.  Additional incentive revenue primarily from the IIS of $30 million related to performance for the regulatory year ended March 31, 2011 and will be included in revenues for the 2012-2013 regulatory year.



In October 2010, Ofgem announced a new pricing model that will be effective for the U.K. electricity distribution sector, including WPD, beginning April 2015.  The model, known as RIIO (Revenues = Incentives + Innovation + Outputs), is intended to encourage investment in regulated infrastructure.  Key components of the model are: an extension of the price review period to eight years, increased emphasis on outputs and incentives, enhanced stakeholder engagement including network customers, a stronger incentive framework to encourage more efficient investment and innovation, expansion of the current Low Carbon Network Fund to stimulate innovation and continued use of a single weighted average cost of capital.  Ofgem has also indicated that the depreciation of the RAV for RAV additions after April 1, 2015 will change from 20 years to 45 years.  At this time, management does not expect the effect of RIIO to be significant to WPD's financial results.  See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to International Regulated Segment."



Customers



The majority of WPD's revenue is known as DUoS and is derived from charging energy suppliers for the delivery of electricity to end-users and thus its customers are the suppliers to those end-users.  Ofgem requires that all licensed electricity distributors and suppliers become parties to the Distribution Connection and Use of System Agreement.  This agreement sets out how creditworthiness will be determined and, as a result, whether the supplier needs to provide collateral.



·Pennsylvania Regulated Segment(PPL)Includes the regulated electric delivery operations of PPL Electric.



(PPL and PPL Electric)



PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act.  PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central Pennsylvania.  PPL Electric also provides electricity supply in this territory as a PLR.



Details of electric revenues by customer class for the years ended December 31, are shown below.



201120102009Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueResidential$1,26667$1,46960$1,47345Industrial623123551916Commercial43123588241,17335Other (a) (b)1337275111274Total$1,892100$2,455100$3,292100



(a)Includes regulatory over- or under-recovery reconciliation mechanisms, pole attachment revenues, street lighting and net transmission revenues.

(b)Included in these amounts for 2011, 2010 and 2009 are $11 million, $7 million and $74 million of retail and wholesale electric to affiliate revenue which is eliminated in consolidation for PPL.



Franchise, Licenses and Other Regulations



PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies to which it has succeeded and as a






result of certification by the PUC.  PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions.  In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance, resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.



Competition



Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated transmission and distribution monopoly in its service area.  Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its electricity transmission and distribution businesses.



Rates and Regulation



Transmission and Distribution



PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which operates the electric transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S.



PJM serves as a FERC-approved RTO to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves.  In addition to operating the electric transmission network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services.  A primary objective of any RTO is to separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same markets.  Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities.  PPL Electric is entitled to fully recover from customers the charges that it pays to PJM for transmission-related services.



PPL Electric's transmission revenues are billed in accordance with a FERC tariff that allows recovery of transmission costs incurred, a return on transmission-related plant and an automatic annual update.



PPL Electric's distribution base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base (net utility plant plus a cash working capital allowance less plant-related deferred taxes and other miscellaneous additions and deductions).  In November 2004, Pennsylvania enacted the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard Act (the AEPS), which requires electricity distribution companies and electricity generation suppliers, to obtain a portion of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania from alternative energy sources.  Under the default service procurement plans approved by the PUC, PPL Electric purchases all of the alternative energy generation supply it needs to comply with the AEPS.



Act 129 became effective in October 2008.  The law creates an energy efficiency and conservation program, a demand side management program, smart metering technology requirements, new PLR generation supply procurement rules, remedies for market misconduct, and changes to the existing AEPS.



See "Regulatory Matters - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding Act 129, other legislative and regulatory impacts and PPL Electric's actions to provide default electricity supply for periods after 2009.



PLR










PPL Electric's PLR obligation after 2009 is governed by the PUC pursuant to the Public Utility Code as amended by Act 129, PLR regulations and a policy statement regarding interpretation and implementation of those regulations.  Effective January 1, 2010, PPL Electric's cost of electric generation is based on a competitive solicitation process.  The PUC has approved PPL Electric's default service plan for the period January 2011 through May 2013, which includes 14 solicitations for supply beginning January 1, 2011 with a portion extending beyond May 2013.  Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric contracts for all of the electricity supply for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, large commercial and large industrial customers who elect to take that service from PPL Electric.  These solicitations include a mix of spot market purchases and long-term and short-term purchases ranging from five months to ten years to fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide customer supply as a PLR.  To date, PPL Electric has conducted ten of its 14 planned competitive solicitations.  See "Energy Purchase Commitments" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding PPL Electric's solicitations for 2011 and its actions to provide default electricity supply for periods after 2011.



In addition, alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service territory.  Whether its customers purchase supply from these alternative suppliers or from PPL Electric as a PLR, the purchase of such supply has no impact on the financial results of PPL Electric.  The cost to purchase PLR supply is passed directly by PPL Electric to its customers without markup.



2010 Rate Case



In March 2010, PPL Electric filed a request with the PUC to increase distribution rates by approximately $115 million or approximately 2.4% over PPL Electric's projected 2010 revenues, to be effective January 1, 2011.  In December 2010, the PUC approved a settlement filed by the parties that provides for a rate increase of $77.5 million, or 1.6%, over PPL Electric's projected 2010 revenues.  The approved rates became effective for service rendered on and after January 1, 2011.  In January 2011, the PP&L Industrial Customers Alliance (PPLICA) filed a Petition for Reconsideration of the PUC's order regarding PPLICA's proposal for a special rate schedule for certain large commercial and industrial customers.  The PUC granted reconsideration and assigned the case to an Administrative Law Judge.  Hearings were held in September 2011.  In January 2012, the Administrative Law Judge issued a recommended decision that the PUC deny PPLICA's proposal.  PPLICA filed exceptions to the recommended decision.  PPL Electric will file reply exceptions.

FERC Formula Rates



In March 2012, PPL Electric plans to file a request with the FERC seeking recovery, over a 34-year period beginning in June 2012, of its unrecovered regulatory asset related to the deferred state tax liability that existed at the time of the transition from the flow-through treatment of state income taxes to full normalization.  This change in tax treatment occurred in 2008 as a result of prior FERC initiatives which transferred regulatory jurisdiction of certain transmission assets from the PUC to the FERC.  A regulatory asset of $51 million related to this transition, classified as taxes recoverable through future rates, is included in "Other Noncurrent Assets - Regulatory assets" on the Balance Sheet.  PPL Electric believes recoverability of this regulatory asset is probable based on FERC precedent in similar cases; however, it is reasonably possible that the FERC may limit the recovery of all or part of the claimed asset.

See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms.



(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)



·Supply SegmentOwns and operates competitive domestic power plants to generate electricity; markets and trades this electricity, purchased power, and other energy-related products to competitive wholesale and retail markets; and acquires and develops competitive domestic generation projects.  Consists primarily of the activities of PPL Generation and PPL EnergyPlus.



PPL Energy Supply has generation assets that are located in the northeastern and northwestern U.S. markets.  The northeastern generating capacity is located primarily in Pennsylvania within PJM and northwestern generating capacity is located in Montana.  PPL Energy Supply enters into energy and energy-related contracts to hedge the variability of expected cash flows associated with their generating units and marketing activities, as well as for trading purposes.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the electricity produced by PPL Energy Supply's generation plants based on prevailing market rates.



Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31, are shown below.






201120102009Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueEnergyWholesale (a)$5,24082$4,34785$4,76190Retail7271141581523Trading(2)217Total energy5,965934,764934,93093Energy-related businesses (b)464736473797Total$6,429100$5,128100$5,309100



(a)Included in these amounts for 2011, 2010, and 2009 are $26 million, $320 million and $1.8 billion of wholesale electric sales to an affiliate which are eliminated in consolidation for PPL.

(b)Energy-related businesses revenues include activities that primarily support the generation, marketing and trading businesses.  These activities include developing renewable energy projects and providing energy-related products and services to commercial and industrial customers through its mechanical contracting and services subsidiaries.In addition to these amounts, for 2011, 2010, and 2009, PPL has $8 million, $11 million and $12 million of revenue which is not applicable to PPL Energy Supply.



Power Supply



PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled generating capacity (summer rating) of 10,508 MW at December 31, 2011.  The system capacity of PPL Energy Supply's owned or controlled generation is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances.Generating capacity controlled by PPL Generation and other PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries includes power obtained through PPL EnergyPlus' tolling or power purchase agreements (including Ironwood and other facilities that consist of NUGs, wind farms and landfill gas facilities).  See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment" for a complete listing of PPL Energy Supply's generating capacity.



During 2011, PPL Energy Supply's power plants, excluding renewable facilities that are discussed separately below, generated the following amounts of electricity.



Thousands of MWhsFuel SourceNortheasternNorthwesternTotalNuclear15,62715,627Oil / Gas (a)9,0339,033Coal21,6123,84225,454Hydro (a)6823,6974,379Total (b)46,9547,53954,493



(a)Northeastern includes generation from certain non-core generation facilities that were sold in March 2011.  See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

(b)This generation represents a 4% decrease from 2010 output, largely attributable to PPL Susquehanna's dual-unit turbine blade replacement outages and economic reductions in coal unit output in the western U.S. in 2011.



PPL Energy Supply's generation subsidiaries are EWGs that sell electricity into wholesale markets.  EWGs are subject to regulation by the FERC, which has authorized these EWGs to sell the electricity generated at market-based prices.  This electricity is sold to PPL EnergyPlus under FERC-jurisdictional power purchase agreements.  PPL Susquehanna is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of the Susquehanna nuclear units.  Certain of PPL Energy Supply's other subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of their fossil plants with respect to certain level and density monitoring devices.  Certain operations of PPL Generation's subsidiaries are also subject to OSHA and comparable state statutes.



See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for information on the 2011 sale of certain non-core generation facilities consisting of natural gas-fired facilities in Wallingford, Connecticut and University Park, Illinois and an equity interest in Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation, which owns a hydroelectric facility in Conestoga, Pennsylvania, the 2010 sale of the Long Island Generation business, consisting of plants in New York and the 2010 and 2009 sales of hydroelectric facilities located in Maine.



Substantially all of PPL Energy Supply's total expected generation in 2012 is anticipated to be used to meet its committed contractual sales.  PPL Energy Supply has also entered into commitments of varying quantities and terms for the years 2013 and beyond.  PPL EnergyPlus purchases the capacity, energy and RECs from two wind farms in Pennsylvania with a combined installed capacity of 50 MW.  These contracts extend through 2027.








PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries own or control renewable energy projects located in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Vermont, Connecticut and New Hampshire with a generating capacity (summer rating) of 65 MW.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the energy, capacity and RECs produced by these plants into the wholesale market as well as to commercial, industrial and institutional customers.  During 2011, the projects owned and operated by these PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries generated 166,000 MWhs.



See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment" for additional information regarding PPL Generation's plans for capital projects in Pennsylvania, Montana, and New Jersey that are expected to provide 191 MW of additional electric generating capacity by 2013.



Fuel Supply



PPL EnergyPlus acts as agent for PPL Generation to procure and optimize its various fuels.



Coal



Pennsylvania



PPL EnergyPlus actively manages PPL's coal requirements by purchasing coal principally from mines located in central and northern Appalachia.



During 2011, PPL Generation purchased 7.1 million tons of coal required for its wholly owned Pennsylvania plants under short-term and long-term contracts.  Contracts currently in place are expected to provide 7.9 million tons of coal in 2012.  The amount of coal in inventory varies from time to time depending on market conditions and plant operations.



PPL Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, has agreements in place that will provide more than 31 million tons of PPL Generation's projected annual coal needs for the Pennsylvania power plants from 2012 through 2018.



A PPL Generation subsidiary owns a 12.34% interest in the Keystone plant and a 16.25% interest in the Conemaugh plant.  PPL Generation owns a 12.34% interest in Keystone Fuels, LLC and a 16.25% interest in Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.  The Keystone plant contracts with Keystone Fuels, LLC for its coal requirements, which provided 4.4 million tons of coal to the Keystone plant in 2011.  The Conemaugh plant requirements are purchased under contract from Conemaugh Fuels, LLC, which provided 4.5 million tons of coal to the Conemaugh plant in 2011.



All PPL Generation Pennsylvania coal plants have scrubbers installed.  Limestone is necessary to operate the scrubbers.  Acting as agent for PPL Brunner Island, LLC and PPL Montour, LLC, PPL EnergyPlus has entered into long-term contracts with limestone suppliers that will provide for those plants' limestone requirements through 2014.  During 2011, 529,000 tons of limestone were delivered to Brunner Island and Montour under long-term contracts.  Annual limestone requirements approximate 600,000 tons.



Montana



PPL Montana has a 50% leasehold interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2, and a 30% leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 3.  NorthWestern owns a 30% leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 4.  PPL Montana and NorthWestern have a sharing agreement to govern each party's responsibilities regarding the operation of Colstrip Units 3 and 4, and each party is responsible for 15% of the respective operating and construction costs, regardless of whether a particular cost is specified to Colstrip Unit 3 or 4.  However, each party is responsible for its own fuel-related costs.  PPL Montana, along with the other owners, is party to contracts to purchase 100% of its coal requirements with defined coal quality characteristics and specifications.  PPL Montana, along with the other owners, has a long-term purchase and supply agreement with the current supplier for Units 1 and 2, which provides these units 100% of their coal requirements through December 2014, and at least 85% of such requirements from January 2015 through December 2019.  The coal supply contract for Unit 3's requirements is in effect through December 2019.



These units were built with scrubbers and PPL Montana has entered into a long-term contract to purchase the lime requirements for these units.  The contract extends through December 2030.



Coal supply contracts are in place to purchase low-sulfur coal with defined quality characteristics and specifications for PPL Montana's Corette plant.  The contracts covered 100% of the plant's coal requirements in 2011, and similar contracts are in place to supply 100% of the expected coal requirements through 2012.






Oil and Natural Gas



Pennsylvania



PPL Generation's Martins Creek Units 3 and 4 burn both oil and natural gas.  During 2011, 100% of the physical gas requirements for the Martins Creek units were purchased on the spot market while oil requirements were supplied from inventory.  At December 31, 2011, there were no long-term agreements for oil or natural gas for these units.



Short-term and long-term gas transportation contracts are in place for approximately 38% of the maximum daily requirements of the Lower Mt. Bethel facility.  During 2011, 100% of the physical gas requirements for Lower Mt. Bethel were purchased on the spot market.



In 2008, PPL EnergyPlus acquired the rights to an existing long-term tolling agreement associated with the capacity and energy of the Ironwood facility.  PPL EnergyPlus has long-term transportation contracts to serve approximately 25% of Ironwood's maximum daily requirements, which began in the fourth quarter of 2010.  Ironwood will be served through a combination of transportation capacity release transactions and delivered supply to the plant.  PPL EnergyPlus currently has no long-term physical supply agreements to purchase natural gas for Ironwood.  During 2011, 100% of the physical gas requirements for Ironwood were purchased on the spot market.



Nuclear



The nuclear fuel cycle consists of several material and service components:  the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; the conversion of these concentrates into uranium hexafluoride, a gas component; the enrichment of the hexafluoride gas; the fabrication of fuel assemblies for insertion and use in the reactor core; and the temporary storage and final disposal of spent nuclear fuel.



PPL Susquehanna has a portfolio of supply contracts, with varying expiration dates, for nuclear fuel materials and services.  These contracts are expected to provide sufficient fuel to permit Unit 1 to operate into the first quarter of 2016 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter of 2017.  PPL Susquehanna anticipates entering into additional contracts to ensure continued operation of the nuclear units.



Federal law requires the U.S. government to provide for the permanent disposal of commercial spent nuclear fuel, but there is no definitive date by which a repository will be operational.  As a result, it was necessary to expand Susquehanna's on-site spent fuel storage capacity.  To support this expansion, PPL Susquehanna contracted for the design and construction of a spent fuel storage facility employing dry cask fuel storage technology.  The facility is modular, so that additional storage capacity can be added as needed.  The facility began receiving spent nuclear fuel in 1999.  PPL Susquehanna estimates that there is sufficient storage capacity in the spent nuclear fuel pools and the on-site spent fuel storage facility at Susquehanna to accommodate spent fuel discharged through approximately 2017 under current operating conditions.  If necessary, the on-site spent fuel storage facility can be expanded, assuming appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained, such that, together, the spent fuel pools and the expanded dry fuel storage facility will accommodate all of the spent fuel expected to be discharged through the current licensed life of the plant.










Energy Marketing



PPL EnergyPlus sells the capacity and electricity produced by PPL Generation subsidiaries, along with purchased power, FTRs, natural gas, oil, uranium, emission allowances and RECs in competitive wholesale and competitive retail markets.



Purchases and sales at the wholesale level are made at competitive prices under FERC market-based prices.  PPL EnergyPlus is licensed to provide retail electric supply to customers in Delaware, Maryland, Montana, New Jersey and Pennsylvania and provides retail natural gas supply to customers in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland.  Within the constraints of its hedging policy, PPL EnergyPlus actively manages its portfolios of energy and energy-related products to optimize their value and to limit exposure to price fluctuations.  See "Commodity Volumetric Activity" in Note 19 to the Financial Statements for the strategies PPL Energy Supply employs to optimize the value of its wholesale and retail energy portfolio.



Competition



Since the early 1990s, there has been increased competition in U.S. energy markets because of federal and state competitive market initiatives.  While some states, such as Pennsylvania and Montana, have created a competitive market for electricity generation, other states continue to consider different types of regulatory initiatives concerning competition in the power and gas industry.  Some states that were considering creating competitive markets have slowed their plans or postponed further consideration.  In addition, states that have created competitive markets have, from time to time, considered new market rules and re-regulation measures that could result in more limited opportunities for competitive energy suppliers.  The activity around re-regulation, however, has slowed due to the current environment of declining power prices.  As such, the markets in which PPL Energy Supply participates are highly competitive.



PPL Energy Supply faces competition in wholesale markets for available energy, capacity and ancillary services.  Competition is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, congestion along the power grid, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets, technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors.  PPL Energy Supply primarily competes with other electricity suppliers based on its ability to aggregate generation supply at competitive prices from different sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and transmission from electric utilities and ISOs.  Competitors in wholesale power markets include regulated utilities, industrial companies, NUGs, competitive subsidiaries of regulated utilities and other energy marketers.  See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Supply Segment" and PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview" for more information concerning the risks faced with respect to competitive energy markets.



Franchise and Licenses



See "Energy Marketing" above for a discussion of PPL EnergyPlus' licenses in various states.  PPL EnergyPlus also has an export license from the DOE to sell capacity and/or energy to electric utilities in Canada.



PPL Susquehanna operates Units 1 and 2 pursuant to NRC operating licenses that expire in 2042 for Unit 1 and in 2044 for Unit 2.



In 2008, a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary, PPL Bell Bend, LLC, submitted a COLA to the NRC for a new nuclear generating unit (Bell Bend) to be built adjacent to the Susquehanna plant.  Also in 2008, the COLA was accepted for review by the NRC.  PPL Bell Bend, LLC does not expect the NRC review of the Bell Bend project to be completed prior to 2014.  See Note 8 to Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL Holtwood operates the Holtwood hydroelectric generating plant pursuant to a FERC-granted license that expires in 2030.  In October 2009, the FERC approved the request to expand the Holtwood plant.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.  PPL Holtwood operates the Wallenpaupack hydroelectric generating plant pursuant to a FERC-granted license that expires in 2044.



In 2010, PPL Holtwood owned one-third of the capital stock of Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation (Safe Harbor), which held a project license that would extend operation of its hydroelectric generating plant until 2030.  In March 2011, PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries completed the sale of their ownership interests in Safe Harbor and two other non-core generating facilities.  See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information.






The 11 hydroelectric facilities and one storage reservoir in Montana are licensed by the FERC.  The Thompson Falls and Kerr licenses expire in 2025 and 2035, the licenses for the nine Missouri-Madison facilities expire in 2040, and the license for the Mystic facility expires in 2050.



In connection with the relicensing of these generating facilities, applicable law permits the FERC to relicense the original licensee or license a new licensee or allow the U.S. government to take over the facility.  If the original licensee is not relicensed, it is compensated for its net investment in the facility, not to exceed the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable damages to other property affected by the lack of relicensing.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the Kerr Dam license.



(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, PPL Electric, LKE, LG&E and KU)



SEASONALITY



The demand for and market prices of electricity and natural gas are affected by weather.  As a result, the Registrants' operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when more severe weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms make such fluctuations more pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the type and location of the facilities owned and the terms of contracts to purchase or sell electricity.



FINANCIAL CONDITION



See the Registrant's "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this information.



CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS



See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in the Registrants' "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information concerning projected capital expenditure requirements for 2012 through 2016.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital expenditures from environmental matters.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS





The Registrants are unable to predict the ultimate effect of evolving environmental laws and regulations upon their existing and proposed facilities and operations and competitive positions.  In complying with statutes, regulations and actions by regulatory bodies involving environmental matters, including, among other things, air and water quality, GHG emissions, hazardous and solid waste management and disposal, and regulation of toxic substances, PPL's and LKE's subsidiaries may be required to modify, replace or cease operating certain of their facilities.  PPL's and LKE's subsidiaries may also incur significant capital expenditures and operating expenses in amounts which are not now determinable, but could be significant.



EMPLOYEE RELATIONS



At December 31, 2011, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time employees.








PPL Energy SupplyPPL Generation2,812PPL EnergyPlus (a)1,864Total PPL Energy Supply4,676PPL Electric2,304LKEKU940LG&E966LKS1,285Total LKE3,191PPL Global (primarily WPD)6,264PPL Services and other1,287Total PPL17,722



(a)Includes labor union employees of mechanical contracting subsidiaries, whose numbers tend to fluctuate due to the nature of this business.



Approximately 5,600 employees, or 49%, of PPL's domestic workforce are members of labor unions, with four International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) labor unions representing approximately 4,300 employees.  The bargaining agreement with the largest IBEW labor union, which expires in May 2014, covers approximately 1,500 PPL Electric, 1,600 PPL Energy Supply and 400 other employees.  Approximately 700 employees of LG&E and 70 employees of KU are represented by an IBEW labor union.  Both LG&E and KU have three-year labor agreements with the IBEW, which expire in November 2014 and August 2012.  KU's agreement includes annual wage reopeners.  Approximately 80 employees of KU are represented by a United Steelworkers of America (USWA) labor union.  KU and the USWA have agreed in principle on a labor agreement effective through August 2014, which was ratified by the members in February 2012.  PPL Montana's largest bargaining unit, an IBEW labor union, represents approximately 270 employees at the Colstrip plant.  The four-year labor agreement expires in April 2012.  PPL Montana's second largest bargaining unit, also an IBEW labor union, represents approximately 80 employees at hydroelectric facilities and the Corette plant.  In 2011, this four-year labor agreement was extended one year and expires in April 2013.



Approximately 4,100 or 65%, of PPL's U.K. workforce are members of labor unions.  WPD recognizes four unions, the largest of which represents 26% of its union workforce.  WPD's Electricity Business Agreement, which covers approximately 4,000 union employees, may be amended by agreement between WPD and the unions and is terminable with 12 months notice by either side.



See "Separation Benefits - International Regulated Segment" in Note 10 to the Financial Statements for information on a 2011 reorganization designed to transition the WPD Midlands companies to the same operating structure as WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales).  See "Separation Benefits" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements for information on a 2009 cost reduction initiative, which resulted in the elimination of approximately 200 domestic management and staff positions at PPL.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



PPL's Internet website is www.pplweb.com.  On the Investor Center page of that website, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of the Registrants (including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(d) or 15(d)) free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC.  Additionally, the Registrants' filings are available at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.




