ITEM 1. BUSINESS



BACKGROUND



PPL Corporation





·More than $10 billion in projected annual revenues (up from $8.5 billion recorded by PPL in 2010 including two months of LKE revenue).



·5.3 million utility customers (including 1.3 million served by the Kentucky-based companies).



·Approximately 19,000 MW of generation (including 7,700 MW of regulated capacity in the Kentucky-based companies).



·Approximately 14,000 full-time employees (including about 3,100 in Kentucky).





As of December 31, 2010, PPL's principal subsidiaries are shown below (* denotes a SEC registrant):







In January 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its 100% membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding, to better align PPL's organizational structure with the manner in which it manages its businesses and reports segment information in its consolidated financial statements.



In addition to PPL Corporation, the other SEC registrants included in this filing are:



PPL Energy Supply, LLC, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PPL formed in 2000, is an energy company engaged through its subsidiaries in the generation and marketing of electricity, primarily in the northeastern and northwestern power markets of the U.S. and in the delivery of electricity in the U.K.  PPL Energy Supply's major operating subsidiaries are PPL Generation, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Global.  As noted above, in January 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its 100% membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding.  At December 31, 2010, PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled 11,729 MW of electric power generation capacity and is implementing capital projects at certain of its existing generation facilities in Pennsylvania
 and Montana to provide 247 MW of additional generating capacity by 2013, and is in the process of disposing of certain non-core generation facilities with a capacity of 961 MW in 2011.



PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, incorporated in 1920, is a direct subsidiary of PPL and a regulated public utility.  PPL Electric delivers electricity in its Pennsylvania service territory and provides electricity supply to retail customers in that territory as a PLR under the Customer Choice Act.



PPL's utility subsidiaries, and to a lesser extent certain of its non-utility subsidiaries, are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC including:  wholesale sales of power and related transactions, electric transmission service, accounting practices, issuances and sales of securities, acquisitions and sales of utility properties and payments of dividends.  PPL is subject to certain FERC regulations as a holding company under PUHCA 2005 and the Federal Power Act, including with respect to accounting and record-keeping, inter-system sales of non-power goods and services and acquisitions of securities in, or mergers with, certain types of electric utility companies or holding companies.



Segment Information



(PPL)



Following the November 1, 2010 acquisition of LKE, PPL is organized into four segments:  Kentucky Regulated, International Regulated (formerly International Delivery), Pennsylvania Regulated (formerly Pennsylvania Delivery) and Supply.  Other than PPL adding a Kentucky Regulated segment, there were no other changes to reportable segments except the renaming of segments and allocating interest expense related to the Equity Units to the Kentucky Regulated segment.



(PPL Energy Supply)



At December 31, 2010,PPL Energy Supply's segments consisted of Supply and International Regulated (formerly International Delivery).  In 2010, there were no changes to these segments except the renaming of segments.  However, in January of 2011, PPL Energy Supply distributed its 100% membership interest in PPL Global to its parent, PPL Energy Funding to better align PPL's organizational structure with the manner in which it manages its businesses and reports segment information in its consolidated financial statements.



(PPL Electric)



PPL Electric operates in a single business segment.



(PPL, PPL Energy Supply, and PPL Electric)



See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for financial information about the segments and geographic financial data.



(PPL)



·Kentucky Regulated SegmentConsists of the operations of LKE, which owns and operates regulated public utilities engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and the distribution and sale of natural gas, representing primarily the activities of LG&E and KU.  The Kentucky Regulated segment also includes interest expense related to the Equity Units issued in June 2010 to partially finance the acquisition of LKE.



LKE became a wholly owned subsidiary of PPL on November 1, 2010.  LG&E and KU are engaged in the regulated generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Kentucky and, in KU's case, Virginia and Tennessee.  KU provides electric service to approximately 514,000 customers in 77 counties in central, southeastern and western Kentucky, to approximately 30,000 customers in five counties in southwestern Virginia and less than ten customers in Tennessee.  In Virginia, KU operates under the name Old Dominion Power Company.  KU also sells wholesale electricity to 12 municipalities in Kentucky.  LG&E provides electric service to approximately 395,000 customers in Louisville and adjacent areas in Kentucky, covering approximately 700 square miles in nine counties.  
LG&E provides natural gas service to approximately 320,000 customers in its electric service area and eight additional counties in Kentucky.



PPL Acquisition



In September 2010, the KPSC approved a settlement agreement among PPL and all of the intervening parties to PPL's joint application to the KPSC for approval of its acquisition of ownership and control of LKE.  In the settlement agreement, the parties agreed that LG&E and KU would commit that no base rate increases would take effect before January 1, 2013.  The rate increases for LG&E and KU that took effect on August 1, 2010 (as described below) are not impacted by the settlement.  Under the terms of the settlement, LG&E and KU retain the right to seek approval for the deferral of "extraordinary and uncontrollable costs."  Interim rate adjustments will continue to be permissible during that period through existing fuel, environmental and demand side management recovery mechanisms. &
#160;The agreement also substitutes an acquisition savings shared deferral mechanism for the previous requirement that LG&E and KU file a synergies plan with the KPSC post-closing.  This mechanism, which will be in place until the earlier of five years or the first day of the year in which a base rate increase becomes effective, permits LG&E and KU to each earn up to a 10.75% return on equity.  Any earnings above a 10.75% return on equity will be shared with customers on a 50%/50% basis.  The KPSC Order and the settlement agreement contained a number of other commitments by LG&E and KU with regard to operations, workforce, community involvement and other matters.



In October 2010, both the VSCC and the TRA approved the transfer of control of LKE to PPL.  Certain of these Orders contained additional commitments with regard to operations, workforce, community involvement and other matters.



Also in October 2010, the FERC approved the application for the transfer of control of the utilities.  The approval includes various conditional commitments, such as a continuation of certain existing undertakings with protesters in prior cases, an agreement not to terminate certain KU municipal customer contracts prior to January 2017, an exclusion of any transaction-related costs from wholesale energy and tariff customer rates to the extent that LG&E and KU have agreed to not seek recovery of the same transaction-related cost from retail customers and agreements to coordinate with protesters in certain open or ongoing matters.



Franchises and Licenses



LG&E and KU provide electric delivery service, and LG&E provides natural gas distribution service, in their various service territories pursuant to certain franchises, licenses, statutory service areas, easements and other rights or permissions granted by state legislatures, cities or municipalities or other entities.



Competition



There are currently no other electric public utilities operating within the electric service areas of LKE.  Neither the Kentucky General Assembly nor the KPSC has adopted or approved a plan or timetable for retail electric industry competition in Kentucky.  The nature or timing of any legislative or regulatory actions regarding industry restructuring and their impact on LKE, which may be significant, cannot currently be predicted.  Virginia, formerly a deregulated jurisdiction, has enacted legislation which implemented a hybrid model of cost-based regulation; KU's operations in Virginia have been and remain regulated.



Alternative energy sources such as electricity, oil, propane and other fuels provide indirect competition for natural gas revenues of LKE.  Marketers may also compete to sell natural gas to certain large end-users.  Approximately 25% of LG&E's annual throughput is purchased by large commercial and industrial customers directly from alternate suppliers for delivery through LG&E's distribution system.  LG&E's natural gas tariffs include gas price pass-through mechanisms relating to its sale of natural gas as a commodity; therefore, customer natural gas purchases from alternative suppliers do not generally impact profitability.  However, some large industrial and commercial customers may physically bypass LG&E's facilities and seek delivery service directly from interstate pipelines or 
other natural gas distribution systems.



In April 2010, the KPSC commenced a proceeding to investigate the regulatory, financial and operational aspects of natural gas retail competition programs, and the potential benefits to Kentucky consumers.  A number of entities, including LG&E, were parties to the proceeding.  In December 2010, the KPSC issued an Order in the proceeding declining to endorse natural gas competition at the retail level, noting the existence of a number of transition or oversight costs and an uncertain level of economic benefits in such programs.  With respect to existing natural gas transportation programs available to large commercial or industrial users, the Order indicates that the KPSC will review utilities' current tariff structures, user thresholds and other terms and conditions of such programs, as part of such utili
ties' next regular natural gas rate cases.



Electric Operations



LKE serves approximately 939,000 electric customers.  LKE's transmission and distribution system territory covers approximately 7,300 square miles.  For the period from acquisition through December 31, 2010, 83% of the Kentucky Regulated segment's operating revenues were derived from electric operations.  Details of electric revenues by customer class for the period from acquisition through December 31, 2010 are shown below.



Revenue% of RevenueIndustrial and commercial$18746Residential16340Municipal154Other retail379Wholesale61Total$408100



Power Supply



At December 31, 2010, LKE owned, controlled or had ownership interest in generating capacity (winter rating) of 7,933 MW in Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio.  See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" for a complete list of LKE's generating capacity.  For the period from acquisition through December 31, 2010, LKE's power plants generated 6,008 GWh of electricity.



During 2010, approximately 95% of the electricity generated by LG&E, and 98% of that generated by KU, was produced by their coal-fired electric generating stations.  The remainder was generated by natural gas and oil-fired combustion turbines and hydroelectric power plants.  Also during 2010, substantially all of the electricity generated was used to supply its retail and municipal customer base.



See "Item 2. Properties - Kentucky Regulated Segment" and Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding Unit 2 of the Trimble County generating station (TC2).With limited exceptions LKE took care, custody and control of TC2 on January 22, 2011, and has dispatched the unit to meet customer demand since that date.  LG&E and KU and the contractor agreed to a further amendment of the construction agreement whereby the contractor will complete certain actions relating to identifying and completing any necessary modifications to allow operation of TC2 on all fuels in accordance with initial specifications prior to certain dates, and amending the provisions relating to liquidat
ed damages.LKE cannot currently estimate the ultimate outcome of these matters.LKE owns a 75% interest in Unit 2.  Unit 2 is coal-fired and has a capacity of 760 MW, of which LKE's share is 570 MW.



Fuel Supply



Coal is expected to be the predominant fuel used by LG&E and KU for baseload generation for the foreseeable future, with natural gas and oil being used for intermediate and peaking capacity and flame stabilization in coal-fired boilers.



Fuel inventory is maintained at levels estimated to be necessary to avoid operational disruptions at coal-fired generating units.  Reliability of coal deliveries can be affected from time to time by a number of factors including fluctuations in demand, coal mine production issues and other supplier or transporter operating difficulties.



LG&E and KU have entered into coal supply agreements with various suppliers for coal deliveries through 2016 and normally augment their coal supply agreements with spot market purchases.



For their existing units, LG&E and KU expect for the foreseeable future to purchase most of their coal from western and eastern Kentucky, West Virginia, southern Indiana, southern Illinois and Ohio.  With the installation of flue gas desulfurization systems (sulfur dioxide removal systems, or scrubbers), LG&E and KU expect their use of higher sulfur coal to increase.  In 2011 and beyond, LG&E and KU may purchase certain quantities of ultra-low sulfur content coal from Wyoming for blending at Unit 2 of the Trimble County generating station.  Coal is delivered to the generating stations primarily by barge, truck and rail.



Natural Gas



LG&E purchases, transports, distributes or stores natural gas for 320,000 customers in Kentucky.  Its service area covers over 700 square miles in 17 counties and includes 391 miles of transportation mains, consisting of natural gas transmission lines of 255 miles, natural gas storage lines of 119 miles and natural gas combustion turbine lines of 17 miles.  LG&E's natural gas distribution system includes 4,235 miles of distribution mains.For the period from acquisition through December 31, 2010, 17% of the Kentucky Regulated segment's operating revenues were derived from natural gas operations.  Shown below are details of natural gas revenues by customer class for the period from acquisition through December 31, 2010.



Revenue% of RevenueResidential$5666Industrial and commercial2226Other retail56Wholesale22Total$85100



LG&E's natural gas billings include a weather normalization adjustment mechanism which adjusts the distribution cost component of residential and commercial customer bills based on normal temperatures during the heating season months of November through April, somewhat mitigating the effect of above- or below-normal weather on residential and commercial revenues.



Five underground natural gas storage fields, with a current working natural gas capacity of approximately 15 Bcf, help provide economical and reliable natural gas service to ultimate consumers.  By using natural gas storage facilities, LG&E avoids the costs typically associated with more expensive pipeline transportation capacity to serve peak winter heating loads.  Natural gas is stored during the summer season for withdrawal the following winter heating season.  Without this storage capacity, LG&E would be forced to buy additional natural gas and pipeline transportation services during winter months when customer demand increases and when the prices for natural gas supply and transportation services are typically at their highest.  Several suppliers under contracts of varying duration prov
ide competitively priced natural gas. The underground storage facilities, in combination with its purchasing practices, enable LG&E to offer natural gas sales service at competitive rates.  At December 31, 2010, LG&E had a 12 Bcf inventory balance of natural gas stored underground valued at $60 million.



A number of large commercial and industrial customers purchase their natural gas requirements directly from alternate suppliers for delivery through LG&E's distribution system.  These large commercial and industrial customers account for approximately 25% of LG&E's annual throughput.



Natural Gas Supply



LG&E also has a portfolio of supply arrangements of various terms with a number of suppliers designed to meet its firm sales obligations.  These natural gas supply arrangements include pricing provisions that are market-responsive.  In tandem with pipeline transportation services, these natural gas supplies provide the reliability and flexibility necessary to serve LG&E's natural gas customers.



LG&E purchases natural gas supply transportation services from two pipelines.  LG&E has contracts with one pipeline that are subject to termination by LG&E between 2013 and 2018.  Total winter capacity under these contracts is 184,900 MMBtu/day and summer on-demand natural gas capacity is 60,000 MMBtu/day.  LG&E has a contract with the other pipeline that expires in 2012.  Total winter and summer capacity under this contract is 51,000 MMBtu/day.



Rates and Regulation



LG&E and KU are subject to the jurisdiction of the KPSC and the FERC in virtually all matters related to electric and natural gas utility regulation.  In addition, KU is subject to the VSCC and the TRA.  LG&E and KU withdrew from the MISO in 2006.  Since exiting from the MISO, LG&E and KU have been operating under a FERC-approved open access transmission tariff.  LG&E and KU now contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority to act as their transmission reliability coordinator and Southwest Power Pool, Inc. to function as their independent transmission operator, pursuant to FERC requirements.  Certain operations of LKE are subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state statutes.  LKE is subject to certain FERC regulations as a holding comp
any under PUHCA 2005 and the Federal Power Act.



LG&E's and KU's Kentucky base rates are calculated based on a return on capitalization (common equity, long-term debt and notes payable) including certain adjustments to exclude non-regulated investments and environmental compliance costs recovered separately through the environmental cost recovery (ECR) mechanism.  As such, regulatory assets are generally earning a return.  See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for additional information on cost recovery mechanisms.



KU's Virginia base rates are calculated based on a return on rate base.  All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the calculation of Virginia base rates.  In January 2011, KU filed a notice of intent to file a rate case with the VSCC for the test year ended December 31, 2010.  The case is expected to be filed on or after April 1, 2011.



KU's wholesale requirements rates for municipal customers are calculated based on annual updates to a rate formula that utilizes a return on rate base (net utility plant less deferred taxes and miscellaneous deductions).  All regulatory assets and liabilities are excluded from the return on rate base utilized in the development of municipal rates.



See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for additional information on cost recovery mechanisms.



2010 Kentucky Rate Case



In January 2010, LG&E and KU filed applications with the KPSC requesting increases in electric base rates of approximately 12%, or annual increases of $95 million and $135 million, respectively.  In addition, LG&E requested an increase in its natural gas base rates of approximately 8%, or $23 million annually.  In June 2010, LG&E and KU and certain intervenors agreed to a stipulation providing for increases in LG&E's and KU's electric base rates of $74 million and $98 million on an annual basis, and LG&E's natural gas base rates of $17 million on an annual basis, and those parties filed a request with the KPSC to approve such stipulation.  In July 2010, the KPSC issued an Order in the proceeding approving all the provisions of the stipulation, including a return on equity range of 9.75-10.
75%, with rates effective on and after August 1, 2010.



Virginia Rate Case



In June 2009, KU filed an application with the VSCC requesting an increase in electric base rates for its Virginia jurisdictional customers in an amount of $12 million annually or approximately 21%.  The proposed increase reflected a proposed rate of return on rate base of 8.586% based on a return of equity of 12%.  As permitted pursuant to a VSCC Order, KU elected to implement the proposed rates effective November 1, 2009, on an interim basis.  During December 2009, KU and the VSCC Staff agreed to a Stipulation and Recommendation authorizing a base rate revenue increase of $11 million annually and a return on rate base of 7.846% based on a 10.5% return on common equity.  In March 2010, the VSCC issued an Order approving the stipulation, with the increased rates to be put into effect as of April 1, 
2010.  As part of the stipulation, KU refunded approximately $1 million in interim rate amounts in excess of the ultimate approved rates.



FERC Wholesale Rate Case



In 2008, KU filed an application with the FERC for increases in electric base rates applicable to wholesale power sale contracts or interchange agreements involving, collectively, twelve Kentucky municipalities.  The application requested a shift from an all-in stated unit charge rate to an unbundled formula rate, including an annual adjustment mechanism.  In 2009, the FERC issued an Order approving a settlement among the parties in the case, incorporating increases of approximately 3% from prior rates and a return on equity of 11%.  In May 2010, KU submitted to the FERC the proposed current annual adjustments to the formula rates, which incorporated certain proposed increases.  Updated rates, including certain further adjustments from a review process involving wholesale requirements customers, bec
ame effective as of July 1, 2010.



(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)



·International Regulated SegmentIncludes WPD, a regulated electricity distribution company in the U.K.



WPD, headquartered in Bristol, England, operates two of the 15 distribution networks providing electricity service in the U.K. through indirect wholly owned subsidiaries.  WPD (South West) serves 1.5 million end-users in a 5,560 square mile area of southwest England.  WPD (South Wales) serves 1.1 million end-users in a 4,550 square mile area within Wales.



Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31, are shown below.



201020092008Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueUtility revenues$72796$68496$82496Energy-related businesses344324334Total$761100$716100$857100



WPD's energy-related businesses revenues include ancillary activities that support the distribution business, including telecommunications and real estate.  WPD's telecommunication subsidiary derives revenue from the rental of fiber optic cables primarily attached to WPD's overhead electricity distribution network.  WPD also provides meter services to businesses across the U.K.



Franchise and Licenses



WPD is authorized by the U.K. government to provide electric distribution services within its concession areas and service territories, subject to certain conditions and obligations.  For instance, WPD is subject to governmental regulation of the prices it can charge and the quality of service it must provide, and WPD can be fined or have its licenses revoked if it does not meet the mandated standard of service.



Competition



Although WPD operates in non-exclusive concession areas in the U.K., it currently faces little competition with respect to end-users connected to its network.  WPD (South West) and WPD (South Wales) are thus regulated monopolies which operate under regulatory price controls.



Rates and Regulation





Customers



The majority of WPD's revenue is derived from the delivery of electricity to end-users and thus its customers are the suppliers to those end-users.  It is a requirement of Ofgem that all licensed electricity distributors and suppliers become parties to the Distribution Connection and Use of System Agreement.  This agreement sets out how creditworthiness will be determined and, as a result, whether the supplier needs to provide collateral.



(PPL and PPL Electric)



·Pennsylvania Regulated SegmentIncludes the regulated electric delivery operations of PPL Electric.



PPL Electric is subject to regulation as a public utility by the PUC, and certain of its transmission activities are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC under the Federal Power Act.  PPL Electric delivers electricity to approximately 1.4 million customers in a 10,000-square mile territory in 29 counties of eastern and central Pennsylvania.  PPL Electric also provides electricity supply in this territory as a PLR.



Details of electric revenues by customer class for the years ended December 31, are shown below.



201020092008Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueResidential$1,46960$1,47345$1,46843Industrial12355191656817Commercial588241,173351,16534Other (a) (b)2751112742006Total$2,455100$3,292100$3,401100



(a)Includes regulatory over- or under-recovery reconciliation mechanisms, pole attachment revenues, street lighting and 2010 transmission revenues, net.

(b)Included in these amounts are $7 million, $74 million and $111 million of retail and wholesale electric to affiliate revenue which is eliminated in consolidation for PPL.



Franchise,  Licenses and Other Regulations



PPL Electric is authorized to provide electric public utility service throughout its service area as a result of grants by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in corporate charters to PPL Electric and companies to which it has succeeded and as a result of certification by the PUC.  PPL Electric is granted the right to enter the streets and highways by the Commonwealth subject to certain conditions.  In general, such conditions have been met by ordinance, resolution, permit, acquiescence or other action by an appropriate local political subdivision or agency of the Commonwealth.



Certain operations of PPL Electric are subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state statutes.



Competition



Pursuant to authorizations from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the PUC, PPL Electric operates a regulated transmission and distribution monopoly in its service area.  Accordingly, PPL Electric does not face competition in its electricity transmission and distribution businesses.



Rates and Regulation



Transmission and Distribution



PPL Electric's transmission facilities are within PJM, which operates the electric transmission network and electric energy market in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions of the U.S.



PJM serves as a FERC-approved RTO to promote greater participation and competition in the region it serves.  Besides operating the electric transmission network, PJM also administers regional markets for energy, capacity and ancillary services.  A primary objective of any RTO is to separate the operation of, and access to, the transmission grid from market participants that buy or sell electricity in the same markets.  Electric utilities continue to own the transmission assets and to receive their share of transmission revenues, but the RTO directs the control and operation of the transmission facilities.  PPL Electric is entitled to fully recover from customers the charges that it pays to PJM for transmission-related services.



In November 2004, Pennsylvania enacted the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard Act (the AEPS), which requires electric distribution companies and retail electric suppliers to ultimately provide 18% of the electricity sold to retail customers in Pennsylvania from alternative energy sources by 2020.  Under this state law, alternative energy sources include hydro, wind, solar, waste coal, landfill methane and fuel cells.  If an electric distribution company is unable to meet these targets, it will pay an alternative compliance payment of $45 (or, in the case of solar, 200% of the average market value of solar credits) for each MWh that it is short.  PPL Electric's initial compliance obligation covered the period January 1, 2010 to May 31, 2010.  PPL Electric was required to supply about 6.7% of the t
otal amount of electricity it delivered to its PLR customers from alternative energy sources during this period.  Under the PUC-approved Competitive Bridge Plan, PPL Electric obtained full requirements service that included the generation or credits that PPL Electric needed to comply with the AEPS in 2010.  AEPS compliance requirements for June 1, 2010 through May 31, 2011 are about 9% of the total amount of electricity delivered to PLR Customers.



Act 129 became effective in October 2008.  The law creates an energy efficiency and conservation program and smart metering technology requirements, establishes new PLR electricity supply procurement rules, provides remedies for market misconduct, and makes changes to the existing AEPS.



See "Regulatory Issues - Pennsylvania Activities" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding Act 129, other legislative and regulatory impacts and PPL Electric's actions to provide default electricity supply for periods after 2009.



PLR



The Customer Choice Act requires electric distribution companies, including PPL Electric, to act as a PLR of electricity supply and provides that electricity supply costs will be recovered by such companies pursuant to regulations established by the PUC.  As part of the PUC Final Order, PPL Electric agreed to supply this electricity at predetermined capped rates through 2009.  To mitigate the risk that PPL Electric would not be able to obtain adequate energy supply at the "capped" rates, PPL Electric entered into full-requirement energy supply contracts with PPL EnergyPlus sufficient for PPL Electric to meet its PLR obligation through the end of 2009.  Under these contracts, PPL EnergyPlus supplied PPL Electric's entire PLR load at predetermined prices equal to the capped generation rates that PPL Electric wa
s authorized to charge its customers.  Prior to the expiration of the rate caps, PPL Electric's customers had limited incentive to purchase generation supply from other providers because, in recent years, the contracts between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus provided a below-market price for these customers.  As a result, a limited amount of "shopping" occurred.



PPL Electric's PLR obligation after 2009 is governed by the PUC pursuant to the Public Utility Code as amended by Act 129, PLR regulations and a policy statement regarding interpretation and implementation of those regulations.  Effective January 1, 2010, PPL Electric's cost of electric generation is based on a competitive solicitation process.  The PUC has approved PPL Electric's default service plan for the period January 2011 through May 2013 which includes 14 solicitations for supply beginning January 1, 2011 with a portion extending beyond May 2013.  Pursuant to this plan, PPL Electric had contracted for all of the 2010 electricity supply for residential, small commercial and small industrial customers, large commercial and large industrial customers who elect to take that service in 2010. 
0;In addition, PPL Electric completed two solicitations in 2009 and four solicitations in 2010 for supply starting January 2011 to May 2015.  The solicitations include a mix of long-term and short-term purchases ranging from five months to five years to fulfill PPL Electric's obligation to provide for customer supply as a PLR.  See "Energy Purchase Commitments" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information regarding PPL Electric's solicitations for 2011 and its actions to provide default electricity supply for periods after 2011.



In addition, several alternative suppliers have offered to provide generation supply in PPL Electric's service territory.  Whether its customers purchase supply from these alternative suppliers or from PPL Electric as a PLR, the purchase of such supply has no impact on the financial results of PPL Electric.  The cost to purchase PLR supply is passed directly by PPL Electric to its customers without markup.



2010 Rate Case



In March 2010, PPL Electric filed a request with the PUC to increase distribution rates by approximately $115 million or approximately 2.4% over PPL Electric's projected 2010 revenues, to be effective January 1, 2011.  In December 2010, the PUC approved a settlement filed by the parties that provides for a rate increase of $77.5 million, or 1.6%, over PPL Electric's projected 2010 revenues.  The approved rates became effective for service rendered on and after January 1, 2011.  In January 2011, the PP&L Industrial Customers Alliance (PPLICA) filed a Petition for Reconsideration of the PUC's order regarding PPLICA's proposal for a special rate schedule for certain large commercial and industrial customers.  Also in January 2011, the PUC granted reconsideration for the purpose of evaluating the me
rits of the petition.  PPL Electric cannot predict the outcome of this evaluation.



See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for additional information on rate mechanisms.



(PPL)



Sale of Businesses



See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for information on the 2008 sale of PPL's natural gas distribution and propane businesses.



(PPL and PPL Energy Supply)



·Supply SegmentOwns and operates competitivedomestic power plants to generate electricity; markets and trades this electricity and other purchased power to competitive wholesale and retail markets; and acquires and develops competitivedomestic generation projects.  Consists primarily of the activities of PPL Generation and PPL EnergyPlus.



PPL Energy Supply has generation assets that are located in the eastern and northwestern U.S. markets.  The eastern generation assets are located in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic energy markets, including PJM and ISO New England.  PPL Energy Supply's northwestern generating capacity is located in Montana.



Details of revenue by category for the years ended December 31, are shown below.



201020092008Revenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueRevenue% of RevenueElectric and GasWholesale (a)$4,34785$4,76190$5,02091Retail415815231512Trading217(121)(2)Total electric and gas4,764934,930935,05091Energy-related businesses (b)364737974789Total$5,128100$5,309100$5,528100



(a)Included in these amounts are $320 million, $1,806 million and $1,826 million of wholesale electric sales to an affiliate which are eliminated in consolidation for PPL.

(b)In addition to these amounts, PPL has $11 million, $12 million and $8 million of revenue which is not applicable to PPL Energy Supply.



The Supply segment's energy-related businesses revenues include activities that primarily support its generation, marketing and trading businesses.  These activities include developing renewable energy projects and providing energy-related products and services to commercial and industrial customers, through its mechanical contracting and services subsidiaries.  The renewable energy business builds, owns, operates and maintains renewable energy facilities throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions, and includes solar, wind and landfill gas to energy plants.  At December 31, 2010, the renewable energy business owned and operated 33 MW of renewable capacity.  The revenues of the mechanical contracting and services subsidiaries are included in "Energy-related businesses" on the Statements of Inc
ome.



Customer Choice Act



In 1996, the Customer Choice Act was enacted to restructure Pennsylvania's electric utility industry in order to create retail access to a competitive market for generation of electricity.  The Customer Choice Act required each Pennsylvania electric utility to file a restructuring plan to "unbundle" its rates into separate generation, transmission and distribution components and to permit its customers to directly access alternate suppliers of electricity.  Under the Customer Choice Act, regulated utilities were required to act as a PLR.  As part of a settlement approved by the PUC, PPL EnergyPlus and PPL Electric entered into full requirements energy supply agreements at predetermined "capped" rates through the end of 2009.



With the expiration of the long-term power purchase agreements between PPL Electric and PPL EnergyPlus, PPL EnergyPlus has multiple options as to how, and to whom, it sells the electricity produced by PPL Energy Supply's generation plants.  These sales are based on prevailing market rates.  The expiration of the long-term supply agreements with PPL Electric also enables PPL Energy Supply to adjust its exposure to fluctuations in demand that existed with supplying PPL Electric's PLR load.  Entry of new generation suppliers into the Pennsylvania marketplace provides PPL Energy Supply the opportunity to provide generation supply to additional wholesale customers but also exposes the Supply segment to increased competition (see "Competition" below).



Power Supply



PPL Energy Supply owned or controlled generating capacity (winter rating) of 11,729 MW at December 31, 2010.  Through subsidiaries, PPL Generation owns and operates power plants in Pennsylvania, Montana, Illinois and Connecticut.  Generating capacity controlled by PPL Generation and other PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries includes power obtained through PPL EnergyPlus' tolling or power purchase agreements (including Ironwood and other facilities that consist of NUGs, wind farms and landfill gas facilities).  See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment" for a complete listing of PPL Energy Supply's generating capacity.



See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for information on the 2010 sale of the Long Island Generation business, consisting of plants in New York and the 2010 and 2009 sales of hydroelectric facilities located in Maine.  Also, see Note 9 to the Financial Statements for information on the anticipated sale of certain non-core generation facilities consisting of natural gas-fired facilities in Wallingford, Connecticut and University Park, Illinois and a PPL Energy Supply subsidiary's interest in Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation, which owns a hydroelectric facility in Conestoga, Pennsylvania.



PPL Energy Supply's generation subsidiaries are EWGs, which sell electricity into wholesale markets.  EWGs are subject to regulation by the FERC, which has authorized these EWGs to sell the electricity generated at market-based prices.  This electricity is sold to PPL EnergyPlus under FERC-jurisdictional power purchase agreements.



PPL Susquehanna is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of the Susquehanna nuclear units.  Certain of PPL Energy Supply's other subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with the operation of their fossil plants with respect to certain level and density monitoring devices.  Certain operations of PPL Generation's subsidiaries are also subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 and comparable state statutes.



The system capacity of PPL Energy Supply's owned or controlled generation is based upon a number of factors, including the operating experience and physical condition of the units, and may be revised periodically to reflect changes in circumstances.



During 2010, PPL Energy Supply's power plants, excluding renewable facilities that are discussed separately below, generated the following amounts of electricity.



StateMillions of kWhPennsylvania48,140Montana8,409Connecticut220New York (a)Illinois164Maine75Total57,008



(a)15 million kWhs were excluded as tolling agreements were in place for 100% of the output.



This generation represented a 4% increase above 2009 output.  Of this generation, 50% of the electricity generated was from coal-fired stations, 29% from the Susquehanna nuclear station, 14% from oil/natural gas-fired stations and 7% from hydroelectric stations.



Substantially all of PPL Energy Supply's total expected generation in 2011 is anticipated to be used to meet its committed contractual sales.  PPL Energy Supply has also entered into commitments of varying quantities and terms for the years 2012 and beyond.  These commitments are consistent with, and integral to, PPL Energy Supply's business strategy to capture profits while managing exposure to adverse movements in energy and fuel prices.  See "Commodity Volumetric Activity" in Note 19 to the Financial Statements for the strategies PPL Energy Supply employs to optimize the value of its wholesale and retail energy portfolio.



PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries own or control renewable energy projects located in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Vermont and New Hampshire with a generating capacity (winter rating) of 33 MW.  PPL EnergyPlus sells the energy and RECs produced by these plants to commercial, industrial and institutional customers.  During 2010, the projects owned and operated by these PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries generated 154 million kWhs.



PPL EnergyPlus purchases the capacity, energy and RECs from two wind farms in Pennsylvania with a combined capacity of 50 MW.  These contracts extend through 2027.



See "Item 2. Properties - Supply Segment" for additional information regarding PPL Generation's plans for capital projects in Pennsylvania and Montana that are expected to provide 247 MW of additional electric generating capacity by 2013.



Fuel Supply



PPL EnergyPlus acts as agent for PPL Generation to procure and optimize its various fuels.



Coal



Pennsylvania



PPL EnergyPlus actively manages PPL's coal requirements by purchasing coal principally from mines located in central and northern Appalachia.



During 2010, PPL Generation purchased 100% of the coal delivered to PPL Generation's wholly owned Pennsylvania stations under short-term and long-term contracts.  These contracts provided PPL Generation 7.0 million tons of coal.  Contracts currently in place are expected to provide 7.9 million tons of coal in 2011.  The amount of coal in inventory varies from time to time depending on market conditions and plant operations.



PPL Generation, by and through its agent PPL EnergyPlus, has an agreement that provides more than one-third of PPL Generation's projected annual coal needs for the Pennsylvania power plants from 2011 through 2018.  PPL Generation has other contracts that, in total, will provide additional coal supply for their projected annual needs from 2011 through 2013.



A PPL Generation subsidiary owns a 12.34% interest in the Keystone station and in Keystone Fuels, LLC and a 16.25% interest in the Conemaugh station and in Conemaugh Fuels, LLC.  The Keystone station contracts with Keystone Fuels, LLC for its coal requirements, which provided 4.5 million tons of coal to the Keystone station in 2010.  The Conemaugh station requirements are purchased under contract from Conemaugh Fuels, LLC, which provided 4.0 million tons of coal to the Conemaugh station in 2010.



All PPL Generation Pennsylvania coal stations have scrubbers installed.  Limestone is necessary to operate the scrubbers.  Acting as agent for PPL Brunner Island, LLC and PPL Montour, LLC, PPL EnergyPlus has entered into long-term contracts with limestone suppliers that will provide for those plants' limestone requirements through 2012.  During 2010, 457,000 tons of limestone were delivered to Brunner Island and Montour under long-term contracts.  Annual limestone requirements approximate 600,000 tons.



Montana



PPL Montana has a 50% leasehold interest in Colstrip Units 1 and 2, and a 30% leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 3.  NorthWestern owns a 30% leasehold interest in Colstrip Unit 4.  PPL Montana and NorthWestern have a sharing agreement to govern each party's responsibilities regarding the operation of Colstrip Units 3 and 4, and each party is responsible for 15% of the respective operating and construction costs, regardless of whether a particular cost is specified to Colstrip Unit 3 or 4.  However, each party is responsible for its own fuel-related costs.  PPL Montana, along with the other owners, is party to contracts to purchase 100% of its coal requirements with defined coal quality characteristics and specifications.  PPL Montana, along with the other owners, has a long-term purchase 
and supply agreement with the current supplier for Units 1 and 2 which, provides these units 100% of their coal requirements through December 2014, and at least 85% of such requirements from January 2015 through December 2019.  The coal supply contract for Unit 3's requirements is in effect through December 2019.



These units were built with scrubbers and PPL Montana has entered into a long-term contract that commences in January 2011 through December 31, 2030, to purchase the lime requirements for these units.



Coal supply contracts are in place to purchase low-sulfur coal with defined quality characteristics and specifications for PPL Montana's Corette station.  The contracts covered 100% of the station's coal requirements in 2010, and similar contracts are in place to supply 100% of the expected coal requirements through 2012.



Oil and Natural Gas



Pennsylvania



PPL Generation's Martins Creek Units 3 and 4 burn both oil and natural gas.  During 2010, 100% of the physical gas requirements for the Martins Creek units were purchased on the spot market while oil requirements were supplied from inventory.  At December 31, 2010, there were no long-term agreements for oil or natural gas for these units.



Short-term and long-term gas transportation contracts are in place for approximately 30% of the maximum daily requirements of the Lower Mt. Bethel facility.  During 2010, 100% of the physical gas requirements for Lower Mt. Bethel were purchased on the spot market.



In 2008, PPL EnergyPlus acquired the rights to an existing long-term tolling agreement associated with the capacity and energy of the Ironwood facility.  PPL EnergyPlus has long-term transportation contracts to serve approximately 25% of Ironwood's maximum daily requirements, which began in the fourth quarter of 2010.  Ironwood will be served through a combination of transportation capacity release transactions and delivered supply to the plant.  PPL EnergyPlus currently has no long-term physical supply agreements to purchase natural gas for Ironwood.  During 2010, 100% of the physical gas requirements for Ironwood were purchased on the spot market.



Illinois



At December 31, 2010, there were no long-term delivery or supply agreements to purchase natural gas for the University Park facility.



Connecticut



PPL EnergyPlus has a long-term contract for approximately 40% of the expected pipeline transportation requirements of the Wallingford facility, but has no long-term physical supply agreement to purchase natural gas.



Nuclear



The nuclear fuel cycle consists of several material and service components:  the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; the conversion of these concentrates into uranium hexafluoride, a gas component; the enrichment of the hexafluoride gas; the fabrication of fuel assemblies for insertion and use in the reactor core; and the temporary storage and final disposal of spent nuclear fuel.



PPL Susquehanna has a portfolio of supply contracts, with varying expiration dates, for nuclear fuel materials and services.  These contracts are expected to provide sufficient fuel to permit Unit 1 to operate into the first quarter of 2016 and Unit 2 to operate into the first quarter of 2017.  PPL Susquehanna anticipates entering into additional contracts to ensure continued operation of the nuclear units.



Federal law requires the U.S. government to provide for the permanent disposal of commercial spent nuclear fuel, but there is no definitive date by which a repository will be operational.  As a result, it was necessary to expand Susquehanna's on-site spent fuel storage capacity.  To support this expansion, PPL Susquehanna contracted for the design and construction of a spent fuel storage facility employing dry cask fuel storage technology.  The facility is modular, so that additional storage capacity can be added as needed.  The facility began receiving spent nuclear fuel in 1999.  PPL Susquehanna estimates that there is sufficient storage capacity in the spent nuclear fuel pools and the on-site spent fuel storage facility at Susquehanna to accommodate spent fuel discharged through approxi
mately 2017 under current operating conditions.  If necessary, the on-site spent fuel storage facility can be expanded, assuming appropriate regulatory approvals are obtained, such that, together, the spent fuel pools and the expanded dry fuel storage facility will accommodate all of the spent fuel expected to be discharged through the current licensed life of the plant.



In 1996, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the Nuclear Waste Policy Act imposed on the DOE an unconditional obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel on or before January 31, 1998.  In 1997, the Court ruled that the contracts between the utilities and the DOE provide a potentially adequate remedy if the DOE failed to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998.  The DOE did not, in fact, begin to accept spent nuclear fuel by that date.  The DOE continues to contest claims that its breach of contract resulted in recoverable damages.  In January 2004, PPL Susquehanna filed suit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for unspecified damages suffered as a result of the DOE's breach of its contract to accept and dispose of spent nuclear fuel. &#
160;Discovery in the case has concluded but the Court has not yet set a date for trial.  PPL cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings.



Energy Marketing



PPL EnergyPlus sells the capacity and electricity produced by PPL Generation subsidiaries, along with purchased power, FTRs, natural gas, oil, uranium, emission allowances and RECs in competitive wholesale and competitive retail markets.



PPL EnergyPlus purchases and sells capacity and electricity at the wholesale level at competitive prices under FERC market-based prices.  Within the constraints of its hedging policy, PPL EnergyPlus actively manages its portfolios of energy and energy-related products to optimize their value and to limit exposure to price fluctuations.



PPL EnergyPlus is licensed to provide retail electric supply to customers in Delaware, Maine, Massachusetts, Maryland, Montana, New Jersey and Pennsylvania and provides retail natural gas supply to customers in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland.



Competition



Since the early 1990s, there has been increased competition in U.S. energy markets because of federal and state competitive market initiatives.  While some states, such as Pennsylvania and Montana, have created a competitive market for electricity generation, other states continue to consider different types of regulatory initiatives concerning competition in the power and gas industry.  Some states that were considering creating competitive markets have slowed their plans or postponed further consideration.  In addition, states that have created competitive markets have, from time to time, considered new market rules and re-regulation measures that could result in more limited opportunities for competitive energy suppliers.  The activity around re-regulation, however, has slowed due to the current 
environment of declining power prices.  As such, the competitive markets in which PPL and its subsidiaries participate are highly competitive.



The Supply segment faces competition in wholesale markets for available energy, capacity and ancillary services.  Competition is impacted by electricity and fuel prices, congestion along the power grid, new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets, technological advances in power generation, the actions of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other factors.  The Supply segment primarily competes with other electricity suppliers based on its ability to aggregate generation supply at competitive prices from different sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and transmission from electric utilities and ISOs.  Competitors in wholesale power markets include regulated utilities, industrial companies, non-utility generators, competitive subsidiari
es of regulated utilities and other energy marketers.  See "Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Supply Segment" and PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview" for more information concerning the risks faced with respect to competitive energy markets.



Franchise and Licenses



See "Background - Segment Information - Supply Segment - Energy Marketing" for a discussion of PPL EnergyPlus' licenses in various states.  PPL EnergyPlus also has an export license from the DOE to sell capacity and/or energy to electric utilities in Canada.



PPL Susquehanna operates Units 1 and 2 pursuant to NRC operating licenses that expire in 2042 for Unit 1 and in 2044 for Unit 2.



In 2008, PPL Susquehanna received NRC approval for its request to increase the generation capacity of the Susquehanna nuclear plant.  The project is being completed in phases over several years.  PPL Susquehanna's share of the total expected capacity increase is estimated to be 195 MW.  The final phase of the Unit 1 uprate was completed in 2010 and yielded 55 MW for PPL Susquehanna.  The final phase of the Unit 2 uprate is scheduled for 2011 and is projected to yield an additional 50 MW for PPL Susquehanna.  PPL Susquehanna's share of the expected remaining expenditures is $15 million.



In 2008, a PPL subsidiary submitted a COLA to the NRC for a new nuclear generating unit (Bell Bend) to be built adjacent to the Susquehanna plant. Also in 2008, the COLA was accepted for review by the NRC.  In February 2010, the NRC published its official review schedule that culminates with the issuance of Bell Bend's final safety evaluation report in 2012.  See Note 8 to Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL Holtwood operates the Holtwood hydroelectric generating station pursuant to a license that was recently extended by the FERC to expire in 2030.  PPL Holtwood operates the Wallenpaupack hydroelectric generating station pursuant to a license renewed by the FERC in 2005 and expiring in 2044.  PPL Holtwood also owns one-third of the capital stock of Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation (Safe Harbor), which holds a project license that extends operation of its hydroelectric generating station until 2030.  The total capacity of the Safe Harbor generating station was 423 MW at December 31, 2010, and PPL Holtwood is entitled by contract to one-third of the total capacity.  In September 2010, PPL Energy Supply subsidiaries signed definitive agreements to sell their ownership interests in Safe Harbor 
and two other non-core generating facilities.  See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



In October 2009, the FERC approved the request to expand the Holtwood plant and extended the operating license through August 2030.  See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



The 11 hydroelectric facilities and one storage reservoir in Montana are licensed by the FERC.  The FERC license for the Mystic facility was relicensed, effective January 1, 2010, for an additional 40-year term.  The Thompson Falls and Kerr licenses expire in 2025 and 2035, respectively; and the licenses for the nine Missouri-Madison facilities expire in 2040.



In connection with the relicensing of these generating facilities, applicable law permits the FERC to relicense the original licensee or license a new licensee, or allow the U.S. government to take over the facility.  If the original licensee is not relicensed, it is compensated for its net investment in the facility, not to exceed the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable damages to other property affected by the lack of relicensing.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the Kerr Dam license.



(PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric)



SEASONALITY



The demand for and market prices of electricity and natural gas are affected by weather.  As a result, PPL's, PPL Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when more severe weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms make such fluctuations more pronounced.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the type and location of the facilities owned and the terms of contracts to purchase or sell electricity.



FINANCIAL CONDITION



See PPL's, PPL Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for this information.



CAPITAL EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS



See "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" in PPL's, PPL Energy Supply's and PPL Electric's "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for information concerning projected capital expenditure requirements for the years 2011-2015.  See Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information concerning the potential impact on capital expenditures from environmental matters.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



PPL and its subsidiaries are subject to certain existing and developing federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations with respect to air and water quality, land use and other environmental matters.  The EPA is in the process of proposing and finalizing an unprecedented number of environmental regulations over the next few years that will directly affect the electric industry.  These initiatives cover all sources - air, water and waste.  See PPL's and PPL Energy Supply's "Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forecasted Uses of Cash - Capital Expenditures" for information concerning environmental capital expenditures during 2010 and projected environmental capital expenditures fo
r the years 2011-2015.  Also, see "Environmental Matters" in Note 15 to the Financial Statements for additional information.  To comply with air related requirements, PPL's forecast for capital expenditures reflects a best estimate projection of expenditures that may be required within the next five years.  Such projections are a combined $2.1 billion for LG&E and KU and $400 million for PPL Energy Supply.  Actual costs may be significantly lower or higher depending on the final requirements.  Environmental compliance costs incurred by LG&E and KU are subject to recovery through a rate recovery mechanism.  See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for additional information.



PPL and its subsidiaries are unable to predict the ultimate effect of evolving environmental laws and regulations upon their existing and proposed facilities and operations and competitive positions.  In complying with statutes, regulations and actions by regulatory bodies involving environmental matters, including, among other things, air and water quality, GHG emissions, hazardous and solid waste management and disposal, and regulation of toxic substances, PPL's subsidiaries may be required to modify, replace or cease operating certain of their facilities.  PPL's subsidiaries may also incur significant capital expenditures and operating expenses in amounts which are not now determinable, but could be significant.



EMPLOYEE RELATIONS



As of December 31, 2010, PPL and its subsidiaries had the following full-time employees.



PPL Energy SupplyPPL Generation2,773PPL EnergyPlus (a)1,923PPL Global (primarily WPD)2,432Total PPL Energy Supply7,128PPL Electric2,293LKE3,122PPL Services and other1,266Total PPL13,809



(a)Includes labor union employees of mechanical contracting subsidiaries, whose numbers tend to fluctuate due to the nature of this business.



Approximately 5,800 employees, or 51%, of PPL's domestic workforce are members of labor unions, with four IBEW locals representing approximately 4,300 employees.  The bargaining agreement with the largest labor union, an IBEW local, which expires in May 2014, covers approximately 1,600 PPL Electric, 1,200 PPL Energy Supply and 400 other employees.  Approximately 830 employees of LKE were represented by an IBEW local and a United Steelworkers of America (USWA) local.  Both LG&E and KU have a three-year labor agreement with the IBEW local.  LG&E's agreement expires in November 2011 and KU's agreement expires in August 2012.  LKE's agreement with the USWA expires in August 2011.  PPL Montana's largest bargaining unit, an IBEW local, represents approximately 270 employees at 
the Colstrip plant.  The four-year labor agreement expires in April 2012.  PPL Montana's second largest bargaining unit, also an IBEW local, represents approximately 85 employees at hydroelectric facilities and the Corette plant.  This four-year labor agreement expires in April 2012.



Approximately 1,870, or 77%, of PPL's U.K. workforce are members of labor unions.  WPD recognizes four unions, the largest of which represents 40% of its union workforce.  WPD's Electricity Business Agreement, which covers approximately 1,820 union employees may be amended by agreement between WPD and the unions and is terminable with 12 months notice by either side.



See "Separation Benefits" in Note 13 to the Financial Statements for information on a 2009 cost reduction initiative, which resulted in the elimination of approximately 200 domestic management and staff positions at PPL.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



PPL's Internet website is www.pplweb.com.  On the Investor Center page of that website, PPL provides access to all SEC filings of PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL Electric free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC.  Additionally, PPL registrants' filings are available at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) and at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.



