ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

(dollars in millions except per share, per ounce and per pound amounts)

Introduction

Newmont Mining Corporation is primarily a gold producer
with significant operations and/or assets in the United States, Australia, Peru, Indonesia, Ghana, New Zealand and Mexico. At December 31, 2013, Newmont had attributable proven and probable gold reserves of 88.4 million ounces and an
aggregate land position of approximately 24,000 square miles (62,000 square kilometers). Newmont is also engaged in the production of copper, principally through Batu Hijau in Indonesia and Boddington in Australia. Newmont Mining Corporation’s
original predecessor corporation was incorporated in 1921 under the laws of Delaware.

Newmont’s corporate headquarters are in
Greenwood Village, Colorado, USA. In this report, “Newmont,” the “Company,” “our” and “we” refer to Newmont Mining Corporation together with our affiliates and subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise
requires. References to “A$” refer to Australian currency, “C$” to Canadian currency and “NZ$” to New Zealand currency.

Newmont’s

Sales

and long-lived assets are geographically distributed as follows:

Segment Information, Export Sales, etc.

Our regions include North America, South America, Australia/New Zealand, Indonesia, and Africa. Our North America segment consists primarily of
Nevada in the United States and La Herradura in Mexico. Our South America segment consists primarily of Yanacocha and Conga in Peru. Our Australia/New Zealand segment consists primarily of Boddington in Australia and other smaller operations in
Australia and New Zealand. Our Indonesia segment consists primarily of Batu Hijau in Indonesia. Our Africa segment consists primarily of Ahafo and Akyem in Ghana. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, below and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for information relating to our operating segments, domestic and export sales and lack of dependence on a limited number of customers.

Products

References in this report to “attributable gold ounces” or “attributable copper pounds” mean that
portion of gold or copper produced, sold or included in proven and probable reserves based on our ownership and/or economic interest, unless otherwise noted.

Gold

General.

We had consolidated gold production of
5.5 million ounces (5.1 million attributable ounces) in 2013, 5.6 million ounces (5.0 million attributable ounces) in 2012 and 5.9 million ounces (5.2 million attributable ounces) in 2011. Of our 2013 consolidated gold production,
approximately 36% came from North America, 19% from South America, 31% from Australia, 1% from Indonesia, and 13% from Africa.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

For 2013, 2012 and 2011, 92%, 92% and 88%, respectively, of our

Sales

were attributable to
gold. Most of our

Sales

comes from the sale of refined gold. The end product at our gold operations, however, is generally doré bars. Doré is an alloy consisting primarily of gold but also containing silver and other metals.
Doré is sent to refiners to produce bullion that meets the required market standard of 99.95% gold. Under the terms of our refining agreements, the doré bars are refined for a fee, and our share of the refined gold and the
separately-recovered silver is credited to our account or delivered to buyers. Gold sold from Batu Hijau in Indonesia and a portion of the gold from Boddington in Australia, Phoenix in Nevada and Yanacocha in Peru, is sold in a concentrate
containing other metals such as copper and silver.

Gold Uses.

Gold generally is used for fabrication or
investment. Fabricated gold has a variety of end uses, including jewelry, electronics, dentistry, industrial and decorative uses, medals, medallions and official coins. Gold investors buy gold bullion, official coins and jewelry.

Gold Supply.

A combination of current mine production, recycling and draw-down of existing gold stocks held by
governments, financial institutions, industrial organizations and private individuals make up the annual gold supply. Based on public information available for the years 2010 through 2013, on average, current mine production has accounted for over
60% of the annual gold supply.

Gold Price.

The following table presents the annual high, low and average
daily afternoon fixing prices for gold over the past ten years on the London Bullion Market ($/ounce):

Source: Kitco,
Reuters and the London Bullion Market Association

On February 12, 2014, the afternoon fixing gold price on the London Bullion
Market was $1,290 per ounce and the spot market gold price on the New York Commodity Exchange was $1,295 per ounce.

We generally sell
our gold at the prevailing market price during the month in which the gold is delivered to the buyers. We recognize revenue from a sale when the price is determinable, the gold has been delivered, the title has been transferred and collection of the
sales price is reasonably assured.

Copper

General.

We had consolidated copper production of 227 million pounds (144 million attributable pounds) in 2013, 224 million pounds (143 million pounds) in 2012 and
338 million pounds (197 million pounds) in 2011. Copper production is in the form of concentrate that is sold to smelters for further treatment and refining. For 2013, 2012 and 2011, 8%, 8% and 12%, respectively, of our

Sales

were
attributable to copper.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

Copper Uses.

Refined copper is incorporated into wire and cable
products for use in the construction, electric utility, communications and transportation industries. Copper is also used in industrial equipment and machinery, consumer products and a variety of other electrical and electronic applications and is
also used to make brass. Copper substitutes include aluminum, plastics, stainless steel and fiber optics. Refined, or cathode, copper is also an internationally traded commodity.

Copper Supply.

A combination of current mine production and recycled scrap material make up the annual copper supply.
The scrap copper market typically accounts for approximately 35% of global copper consumption.

Copper
Price.

The copper price is quoted on the London Metal Exchange in terms of dollars per metric ton of high grade copper. The following table presents the dollar per pound equivalent of the annual high, low and average daily
prices of high grade copper on the London Metal Exchange over the past ten years ($/pound):

Source: London
Metal Exchange

On February 12, 2014, the high grade copper closing price on the London Metal Exchange was $3.25 per pound.

We generally sell our copper concentrate based on the monthly average market price for the third month following the month in which the
delivery to the smelter takes place. We recognize revenue from a sale when the price is determinable, the concentrate has been loaded on a vessel, the title has been transferred and collection of the sales price is reasonably assured. For revenue
recognition, we use a provisional price based on the average prevailing market price during the two week period prior to completion of vessel loading. The copper concentrate is marked to market through earnings as an adjustment to revenue until
final settlement.

We generally sell our copper cathode based on the weekly average market price for the week following production. Title
is transferred upon loading of the buyer’s truck. Revenue from the sale of copper cathode is currently accounted for as a by-product credit to

Costs applicable to sales.

Gold and Copper Processing Methods

Gold is extracted from naturally-oxidized ores by either milling or heap leaching, depending on the amount of gold contained in the ore, the amenability of the ore to treatment and related capital and operating
costs. Higher grade oxide ores are generally processed through mills, where the ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water into a slurry, which then passes through a carbon-in-leach circuit. Lower grade oxide ores are generally processed
using heap leaching. Heap leaching consists of stacking crushed or run-of-mine ore on impermeable pads, where a weak cyanide solution



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

is applied to the surface of the heap to dissolve the gold. In both cases, the gold-bearing solution is then collected and pumped to process facilities to remove the gold by collection on carbon
or by zinc precipitation.

Gold contained in ores that are not naturally-oxidized can be directly milled if the gold is liberated and
amenable to cyanidation, generally known as free milling ores. Ores that are not amenable to cyanidation, known as refractory ores, require more costly and complex processing techniques than oxide or free milling ore. Higher grade refractory ores
are processed through either roasters or autoclaves. Roasters heat finely ground ore to a high temperature, burn off the carbon and oxidize the sulfide minerals that prevent efficient leaching. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to oxidize
sulfide ores.

Some gold sulfide ores may be processed through a flotation plant or by bio-milling. In flotation, ore is finely ground,
turned into slurry, then placed in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold-containing sulfides to attach to air bubbles and float to the top of the tank. The sulfides are removed from the cell and
converted into a concentrate that can then be processed in an autoclave or roaster to recover the gold. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology that involves inoculation of suitable crushed ore on a leach pad with naturally occurring bacteria
strains, which oxidize the sulfides over a period of time. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.

At Batu Hijau, ore
containing copper and gold is crushed to a coarse size at the mine and then transported from the mine via conveyor to a concentrator, where it is finely ground and then treated by successive stages of flotation, resulting in a copper/gold
concentrate containing approximately 20% to 24% copper. The concentrate is dewatered and stored for loading onto ships for transport to smelters.

At Boddington and Phoenix, ore containing copper and gold is crushed to a coarse size at the mine and then transported via conveyor to a process plant, where it is further crushed and then finely ground as a
slurry. The ore is initially treated by successive stages of flotation resulting in a copper/gold concentrate containing approximately 15% to 20% copper. Flotation concentrates are also processed via a gravity circuit to recover fine liberated gold
and then dewatered and stored for loading onto ships for transport to smelters. The flotation tailings has a residual gold content that is recovered in a carbon-in-leach circuit.

In addition, at Phoenix, copper heap leaching is performed on copper oxide ore and enriched copper sulphide ore to produce copper cathodes. Heap
leaching is accomplished by stacking uncrushed ore onto synthetically lined pads where it is contacted with a dilute sulphuric acid solution thus leaching the acid soluble minerals into a copper sulphate solution. The copper sulphate solution is
then collected and pumped to the solvent extraction (“SX”) plant. The SX process consists of two steps. During the first step, the copper is extracted into an organic solvent solution. The loaded organic solution is then pumped to the
second step where copper is stripped with a strong acid solution before being sent through the electrowinning process. Cathodes produced in electrowinning are 99.99% copper.

Hedging Activities

Our strategy is to provide shareholders with
leverage to gold and copper prices by selling our gold and copper at spot market prices and consequently, we do not hedge our gold and copper sales. We continue to manage certain risks associated with commodity input costs and foreign currencies
using the derivative market.

For additional information, see Hedging in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk, and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

Gold, Copper and Silver Reserves

At December 31, 2013, we had 88.4 million attributable ounces of proven and probable gold reserves. We reduced proven and probable
reserves by 4.6 million ounces, and depleted 6.2 million ounces during 2013. 2013 reserves were calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,300, A$1,415 or NZ$1,675 per ounce. A reconciliation of the changes in attributable proven and
probable gold reserves during the past three years is as follows:

A reconciliation of the changes in attributable proven and probable gold reserves for 2013 by region is as follows:

(1)

Revisions and additions are due to reserve conversions, optimizations, model updates, metal price changes and updated operating costs and recoveries. The impact
of the change in gold price assumption on reserve additions was approximately (2.5) million, 1.5 million and 3.3 million ounces in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The gold price assumption was $1,300 per ounce in 2013, $1,400 per
ounce in 2012 and $1,200 per ounce in 2011.

(2)

In 2012, we completed a positive feasibility study on Merian and our interest increased from 50% to 80%. We also increased our interest in Regis Resources Ltd.
to 19.75% in 2012 from 16.85% in 2011. In 2013, our interest was reduced to 19.52%.

At December 31, 2013, we had
8,130 million attributable pounds of proven and probable copper reserves. We reduced proven and probable reserves by 1,150 million pounds and depleted 230 million pounds during 2013. 2013 reserves were calculated at a copper price of
$3.00 or A$3.25 per pound. A reconciliation of the changes in attributable proven and probable copper reserves during the past three years is as follows:



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

A reconciliation of changes in attributable proven and probable copper reserves for 2013 by region
is as follows:

(1)

Revisions and additions are due to reserve conversions, optimizations, model updates, metal price changes and updated operating costs and recoveries. The impact
of the change in copper price assumption on reserve additions was (520) million, 75 million and 370 million pounds in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The copper price assumption was $3.00 per pound in 2013, $3.25 per pound in 2012
and $3.00 per pound in 2011.

At December 31, 2013, we had 153 million ounces of attributable proven and
probable silver reserves. We reduced proven and probable reserves by 24.1 million ounces and depleted 8.7 million ounces during 2013. 2013 reserves were calculated at a silver price of $20.00 per ounce. A reconciliation of the changes in
proven and probable silver reserves during the past year is as follows:

A reconciliation of the changes in attributable proven and probable silver reserves for 2013 by region is as
follows:

(1)

Revisions and additions are due to reserve conversions, optimizations, model updates, metal price changes and updated operating costs and recoveries.

Our exploration efforts are directed to the discovery of new mineralized material and converting it into proven and
probable reserves. We conduct near-mine exploration around our existing mines and greenfields exploration in other regions globally. Near-mine exploration can result in the discovery of additional deposits, which may receive the economic benefit of
existing operating, processing, and administrative infrastructures. In contrast, the discovery of mineralization through greenfields exploration efforts will require capital investment to build a stand-alone operation. Our

Exploration

expense
was $247, $356 and $350 in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

For additional information, see Item 2, Properties, Proven and Probable
Reserves.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

Licenses and Concessions

Other than operating licenses for our mining and processing facilities, there are no third party patents, licenses or franchises material to our
business. In many countries, however, we conduct our mining and exploration activities pursuant to concessions granted by, or under contract with, the host government. These countries include, among others, Australia, Canada, Ghana, Indonesia,
Mexico, New Zealand, Peru and Suriname. The concessions and contracts are subject to the political risks associated with foreign operations. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, below. For a more detailed description of our Indonesian Contract of Work,
see Item 2, Properties, below.

Condition of Physical Assets and Insurance

Our business is capital intensive and requires ongoing capital investment for the replacement, modernization or expansion of equipment and
facilities. For more information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, below.

We maintain insurance policies against property loss and business interruption and insure against risks that are typical in the operation of our
business, in amounts that we believe to be reasonable. Such insurance, however, contains exclusions and limitations on coverage, particularly with respect to environmental liability and political risk. There can be no assurance that claims would be
paid under such insurance policies in connection with a particular event. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, below.

Environmental Matters

Our United States mining and exploration activities are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; the Federal Land Policy and Management Act; the National Environmental Policy Act; the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act; and related state laws. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. Our activities outside the United States are also subject to various levels of governmental
regulations for the protection of the environment and, in some cases, those regulations can be as, or more, restrictive than those in the United States.

We conduct our operations so as to protect public health and the environment and believe our operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. Each operating mine has a
reclamation plan in place that meets all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. At December 31, 2013, $1,432 was accrued for reclamation costs relating to current or recently producing properties.

We are involved in several matters concerning environmental obligations associated with former, primarily historic, mining activities. Generally,
these matters concern developing and implementing remediation plans at the various sites. Based upon our best estimate of our liability for these matters, $179 was accrued at December 31, 2013 for such obligations associated with properties
previously owned or operated by us or our subsidiaries. The amounts accrued for these matters are reviewed periodically based upon facts and circumstances available at the time.

For a discussion of the most significant reclamation and remediation activities, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Notes 4 and 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, below.

In
addition to legal and regulatory compliance, we have developed complementary programs to guide our Company toward achieving transparent and sustainable environmental and socially responsible performance objectives. Evidencing our
management’s commitment towards these



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

objectives, our corporate headquarters are located in an environmentally sustainable, LEED, gold-certified building. We are committed to managing climate change related risks and responsibly
managing our greenhouse gas emissions. We have publicly reported our greenhouse gas emissions since 2004 to the Carbon Disclosure Project and our score has improved since 2012. Our greenhouse gas emissions are independently verified to satisfy
all the requirements for emissions reporting under ISO International Standard 14064-3:2006. We actively participate in the International Council on Mining and Metals (“ICMM”) and are committed to the ICMM’s 10 Principles of
Sustainable Development and its commitment to implement the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, bribery and corruption, labor and the environment. In 2013, all Newmont operated sites maintained their certification as ISO
14001 compliant, except for Akyem in Ghana. Akyem began production in late 2013 and is currently working through the process to achieve their ISO 14001 certification. We transparently report on our sustainability performance in accordance with the
Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, including the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement to meet the requirements of GRI Application Level A+. As a result of our efforts, we continue to achieve milestones, such as being the first gold company
listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (“DJSWI”), remaining a member of DJSWI for seven consecutive years, and receiving International Cyanide Management Code certification at the majority of Newmont operated sites as of the
end of 2013 except for Akyem in Ghana and the Emigrant mine in Nevada. Emigrant and Akyem began operations in 2012 and 2013, respectively, and are currently working through the process to achieve their Cyanide Code certification within the requisite
three-year Code timeframe.

Health and Safety

We conduct our operations so as to protect the health and safety (“H&S”) of our employees and contractors and believe our operations are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all
material respects. In addition to this, the Company has established Health & Safety Management and Technical Standards that in most cases well exceed the regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The quality of
our Health & Safety Management System is audited on an annual basis against the OHSAS 18001 protocol and our own internal standards. All of Newmont’s operating sites maintained their OHSAS 18001 certification during
2013.

In early 2013, Newmont set a five-year target to lead the industry in H&S performance as measured by zero fatalities and the
lowest Total Reportable Accident Frequency Rate and Occupational Illness Rate among its peers in the International Council on Mining and Metals (“ICMM”). To achieve our five-year target and embed a culture of Zero Harm, Newmont has
centered our H&S activities on four key focus areas: injury prevention, fatality prevention, safety leadership and health and wellbeing. The energy and wisdom of our leaders and workforce is being harnessed through a number of strategic
initiatives. Visible felt leadership is being demonstrated through Safety Shares, Personal Safety Plans and Safety Interactions in the field. Our workforce has been engaged through our Vital Behaviors program to share their near-miss stories,
identify key behaviors that will prevent people from getting injured, and develop influence strategies to foster these Vital Behaviors, and discourage less safe behaviors. Other programs are targeting improvements in Risk Management, Process Safety,
Contractor Management and Occupational Health and Hygiene.

Externally we strive to help improve the overall safety performance of the
mining industry and actively participate in the ICMM Health & Safety Committee, the Mining Safety Round Table, the National Mining Association’s CORESafety program and other industry bodies promoting H&S in mining.

Employees and Contractors

Approximately 15,085 people were employed by Newmont at December 31, 2013. In addition, approximately 17,086 people were working as contractors in support of Newmont’s operations at December 31,
2013.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this report (including information incorporated by reference) are “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbor provided for under these sections. Words such as
“expect(s),” “feel(s),” “believe(s),” “will,” “may,” “anticipate(s),” “estimate(s),” “should,” “intend(s)” and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements may include, without limitation:

•

Estimates regarding future earnings and the sensitivity of earnings to gold and other metal prices;

•

Estimates of future mineral production and sales;

•

Estimates of future production costs, other expenses and taxes for specific operations;

•

Estimates of future cash flows and the sensitivity of cash flows to gold and other metal prices;

•

Estimates of future capital expenditures, construction, production or closure activities and other cash needs, for specific operations, and expectations as to
the funding or timing thereof;

•

Estimates as to the projected development of certain ore deposits, including the timing of such development, the costs of such development and other capital
costs, financing plans for these deposits and expected production commencement dates;

•

Estimates of reserves and statements regarding future exploration results and reserve replacement and the sensitivity of reserves to metal price changes;

•

Statements regarding the availability of, and terms and costs related to, future borrowing, debt repayment and financing;

•

Estimates regarding future exploration expenditures, results and reserves and mineralized material;

•

Statements regarding fluctuations in financial and currency markets;

•

Estimates regarding potential cost savings, productivity, operating performance and ownership and cost structures;

•

Expectations regarding the completion and timing of acquisitions or divestitures and projected synergies and costs associated with acquisitions;

•

Expectations regarding the start-up time, design, mine life, production and costs applicable to sales and exploration potential of our projects;

•

Statements regarding modifications to hedge and derivative positions;

•

Statements regarding political, economic or governmental conditions and environments;

•

Statements regarding future transactions;

•

Statements regarding the impacts of changes in the legal and regulatory environment in which we operate;

•

Estimates of future costs and other liabilities for certain environmental matters;

•

Estimates of income taxes; and

•

Estimates of pension and other post-retirement costs.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

Where we express an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or
belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, our forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results
expressed, projected or implied by those forward-looking statements. Such risks include, but are not limited to:

•

The price of gold, copper and other commodities;

•

The cost of operations;

•

Currency fluctuations;

•

Geological and metallurgical assumptions;

•

Operating performance of equipment, processes and facilities;

•

Labor relations;

•

Timing of receipt of necessary governmental permits or approvals;

•

Domestic and foreign laws or regulations, particularly relating to the environment and mining;

•

Changes in tax laws and royalty agreements;

•

Domestic and international economic and political conditions;

•

Our ability to obtain or maintain necessary financing; and

•

Other risks and hazards associated with mining operations.

More detailed information regarding these factors is included in Item 1, Business, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and elsewhere throughout this report. Given these uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements.

All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to
Newmont or to persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.

Available Information

Newmont maintains a website at

www.newmont.com

, and makes available, through the Investor Relations section of the website,
its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Certain other information, including Newmont’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of key committees of its Board of Directors and its Code of Business Ethics and Conduct are also
available on the website.