ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

(dollars in millions except per share, per ounce and per pound amounts)

Introduction

Newmont Mining Corporation is primarily a gold producer with significant operations and/or assets in the United States, Australia, Peru, Indonesia,
Ghana, New Zealand and Mexico. At December 31, 2011, Newmont had attributable proven and probable gold reserves of 98.8 million ounces and an aggregate land position of approximately 31,500 square miles (81,500 square kilometers). Newmont
is also engaged in the production of copper, principally through its Batu Hijau operation in Indonesia and Boddington operation in Australia. Newmont Mining Corporation’s original predecessor corporation was incorporated in 1921 under the laws
of Delaware.

Newmont’s corporate headquarters are in Greenwood Village, Colorado, USA. In this report, “Newmont,” the
“Company,” “our” and “we” refer to Newmont Mining Corporation together with our affiliates and subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. References to “A$” refer to Australian currency,
“C$” to Canadian currency, “NZ$” to New Zealand currency, “IDR” to Indonesian currency and “$” to United States currency.

Newmont’s

Sales

and long-lived assets are geographically distributed as follows:

On April 6, 2011, Newmont acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Fronteer Gold Inc.
(“Fronteer”). Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition, shareholders of Fronteer received C$14.00 in cash and one-fourth of a common share in Pilot Gold Inc., a Canadian corporation, which retained certain exploration assets of Fronteer,
for each common share of Fronteer. Newmont acquired, among other assets, the exploration stage Long Canyon project, which is located approximately one hundred miles from the Company’s existing infrastructure in Nevada and provides the potential
for significant development and operating synergies.

Segment Information, Export Sales, etc.

Our operating segments include North America, South America, Asia Pacific and Africa. Our North America segment consists primarily of Nevada in the
United States, La Herradura in Mexico and Hope Bay in Canada. Our South America segment consists primarily of Yanacocha and Conga in Peru. Our Asia Pacific segment consists primarily of Boddington in Australia, Batu Hijau in Indonesia and other
smaller operations in Australia and New Zealand. Our Africa segment consists primarily of Ahafo and Akyem in Ghana. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, below and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to our operating
segments, domestic and export sales and lack of dependence on a limited number of customers.

Products

References in this report to “attributable gold ounces” or “attributable copper pounds” mean that portion of gold or copper
produced, sold or included in proven and probable reserves based on our ownership and/or economic interest, unless otherwise noted.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

Gold

General.

We had consolidated gold production of 5.9 million ounces (5.2 million ounces attributable to Newmont) in 2011, 6.5 million ounces (5.4 million ounces) in 2010 and
6.5 million ounces (5.2 million ounces) in 2009. Of our 2011 consolidated gold production, approximately 33% came from North America, 22% from South America, 35% from Asia Pacific and 10% from Africa.

For 2011, 2010 and 2009, 88%, 81% and 83%, respectively, of our

Sales

were attributable to gold. Most of our

Sales

comes from the sale
of refined gold in the international market. The end product at our gold operations, however, is generally doré bars. Doré is an alloy consisting primarily of gold but also containing silver and other metals. Doré is sent to
refiners to produce bullion that meets the required market standard of 99.95% gold. Under the terms of our refining agreements, the doré bars are refined for a fee, and our share of the refined gold and the separately-recovered silver is
credited to our account or delivered to buyers. Gold sold from Batu Hijau in Indonesia and a portion of the gold from Boddington in Australia, Phoenix in Nevada and Yanacocha in Peru, is sold in a concentrate containing other metals such as copper
and silver.

Gold Uses.

Gold generally is used for fabrication or investment. Fabricated gold has a
variety of end uses, including jewelry, electronics, dentistry, industrial and decorative uses, medals, medallions and official coins. Gold investors buy gold bullion, official coins and jewelry.

Gold Supply.

A combination of current mine production, recycling and draw-down of existing gold stocks held by
governments, financial institutions, industrial organizations and private individuals make up the annual gold supply. Based on public information available for the years 2008 through 2011, on average, current mine production has accounted for
approximately 64% of the annual gold supply.

Gold Price.

The following table presents the annual high, low
and average daily afternoon fixing prices for gold over the past ten years on the London Bullion Market ($/ounce):

Source: Kitco,
Reuters and the London Bullion Market Association

On February 15, 2012, the afternoon fixing gold price on the London Bullion
Market was $1,733 per ounce and the spot market gold price on the New York Commodity Exchange was $1,726 per ounce.

We generally sell
our gold at the prevailing market price during the month in which the gold is delivered to the customer. We recognize revenue from a sale when the price is determinable, the gold has been delivered, the title has been transferred and collection of
the sales price is reasonably assured.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

Copper

General.

We had consolidated copper production of 352 million pounds (206 million pounds attributable to Newmont) in 2011, 600 million pounds (327 million pounds) in 2010
and 504 million pounds (227 million pounds) in 2009. Copper production is in the form of saleable concentrate that is sold to smelters for further treatment and refining. For 2011, 2010 and 2009, 12%, 19% and 17%, respectively, of our

Sales

were attributable to copper.

Copper Uses.

Refined copper is incorporated into wire and
cable products for use in the construction, electric utility, communications and transportation industries. Copper is also used in industrial equipment and machinery, consumer products and a variety of other electrical and electronic applications
and is also used to make brass. Copper substitutes include aluminum, plastics, stainless steel and fiber optics. Refined, or cathode, copper is also an internationally traded commodity.

Copper Supply.

A combination of current mine production and recycled scrap material make up the annual copper
supply.

Copper Price.

The copper price is quoted on the London Metal Exchange in terms of dollars
per metric ton of high grade copper. The following table presents the dollar per pound equivalent of the annual high, low and average daily prices of high grade copper on the London Metal Exchange over the past ten years ($/pound):

Source: London
Metal Exchange

On February 15, 2012, the high grade copper closing price on the London Metal Exchange was $3.79 per pound.

We generally sell our copper based on the monthly average market price for the third month following the month in which the delivery to
the customer takes place. We recognize revenue from a sale when the price is determinable, the concentrate has been loaded on a vessel, the title has been transferred and collection of the sales price is reasonably assured. For revenue recognition,
we use a provisional price based on the average prevailing market price during the two week period prior to completion of vessel loading. The copper concentrate is marked to market through earnings as an adjustment to revenue until final settlement.

Gold and Copper Processing Methods

Gold is extracted from naturally-oxidized ores by either milling or heap leaching, depending on the amount of gold contained in the ore, the amenability of the ore to treatment and related capital and operating
costs. Higher grade oxide ores are generally processed through mills, where the ore is ground into a fine powder and mixed with water in slurry, which then passes through a carbon-in-leach



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

circuit. Lower grade oxide ores are generally processed using heap leaching. Heap leaching consists of stacking crushed or run-of-mine ore on impermeable pads, where a weak cyanide solution is
applied to the surface of the heap to dissolve the gold. In both cases, the gold-bearing solution is then collected and pumped to process facilities to remove the gold by collection on carbon or by zinc precipitation.

Gold contained in ores that are not naturally-oxidized can be directly milled if the gold is amenable to cyanidation, generally known as free
milling sulfide ores. Ores that are not amenable to cyanidation, known as refractory ores, require more costly and complex processing techniques than oxide or free milling ore. Higher grade refractory ores are processed through either roasters or
autoclaves. Roasters heat finely ground ore to a high temperature, burn off the carbon and oxidize the sulfide minerals that prevent efficient leaching. Autoclaves use heat, oxygen and pressure to oxidize sulfide ores.

Some sulfide ores may be processed through a flotation plant or by bio-milling. In flotation, ore is finely ground, turned into slurry, then placed
in a tank known as a flotation cell. Chemicals are added to the slurry causing the gold-containing sulfides to attach to air bubbles and float to the top of the tank. The sulfides are removed from the cell and converted into a concentrate that can
then be processed in an autoclave or roaster to recover the gold. Bio-milling incorporates patented technology that involves inoculation of suitable crushed ore on a leach pad with naturally occurring bacteria strains, which oxidize the sulfides
over a period of time. The ore is then processed through an oxide mill.

At Batu Hijau, ore containing copper and gold is crushed to a
coarse size at the mine and then transported from the mine via conveyor to a concentrator, where it is finely ground and then treated by successive stages of flotation, resulting in a concentrate containing approximately 26% to 31% copper. The
concentrate is dewatered and stored for loading onto ships for transport to smelters.

At Boddington, ore containing copper and gold is
crushed to a coarse size at the mine and then transported via conveyor to a process plant, where it is further crushed and then finely ground as a slurry. The ore is initially treated by flotation which produces a copper/gold concentrate containing
approximately 20% copper. Flotation concentrates are processed via a gravity circuit to recover fine liberated gold and then dewatered and stored for loading onto ships for transport to smelters. The flotation tailing has a residual gold content
that is recovered in a carbon-in-leach circuit.

Hedging Activities

Our strategy is to provide shareholders with leverage to changes in gold and copper prices by selling our gold and copper at current market prices
and consequently, we do not hedge our gold and copper sales. We continue to manage certain risks associated with commodity input costs, treasury rates and foreign currencies using the derivative market.

For additional information, see Hedging in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, and Note 17 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Gold and Copper Reserves

At December 31, 2011, we had 98.8 million ounces of proven and probable gold reserves attributable to Newmont. We added 11.6 million ounces to proven and probable reserves, and depleted
6.3 million ounces during 2011. 2011 reserves were calculated at a gold price assumption of $1,200,



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

A$1,250 or NZ$1,600 per ounce. A reconciliation of the changes in proven and probable gold reserves during the past three years is as follows:

A reconciliation of the changes in proven and probable gold reserves for 2011 by region is as follows:

(1)

The impact of the change in gold price assumption on reserve additions was approximately 3.3 million, 1.7 million and 1.7 million ounces in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively. The gold price assumption was $1,200 per ounce in 2011, $950 per ounce in 2010 and $800 per ounce in 2009.

(2)

In 2010, we recognized our attributable interest in Regis Resources Ltd. and their reserves in the Duketon belt of Western Australia for an attributable reserve
of 0.3 million ounces. In 2009, reserves were increased by 6.7 million ounces through the acquisition of the remaining 33.33% interest in Boddington. At December 31, 2009, our economic interest in Batu Hijau increased to 52.44% as a
result of transactions with a noncontrolling partner, increasing reserves by 1.5 million ounces.

(3)

In April 2010, our direct ownership interest in Batu Hijau decreased from 35.44% to 31.5% (economic interest decreased from 52.44% to 48.50%) as a result of the
divestiture required under the Contract of Work. In November and December 2009, our direct ownership interest in Batu Hijau decreased from 45% to 35.44% as a result of the divestiture required under the Contract of Work. In July 2009 we sold the
Kori Kollo operation in Bolivia.

At December 31, 2011, we had 9,720 million pounds of proven and probable
copper reserves. We added 630 million pounds to proven and probable reserves and depleted 330 million pounds during 2011. 2011 reserves were calculated at a copper price of $3.00 or A$3.15 per pound. A reconciliation of the changes in
proven and probable copper reserves during the past three years is as follows:



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

A reconciliation of changes in proven and probable copper reserves for 2011 by region is as
follows:

(1)

The impact of the change in copper price assumption on reserve additions was 370 million, 150 million and 290 million pounds in 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. The copper price assumption was $3.00 per pound in 2011, $2.50 per pound in 2010 and $2.00 per pound in 2009.

(2)

In 2009, reserves were increased by 640 million pounds through the acquisition of the remaining 33.33% interest in Boddington. At December 31, 2009,
our economic interest in Batu Hijau increased to 52.44% as a result of transactions with a noncontrolling partner, increasing reserves by 1,400 million pounds.

(3)

In April 2010, our direct ownership interest in Batu Hijau decreased from 35.44% to 31.5% (economic interest decreased from 52.44% to 48.50%) as a result of the
divestiture required under the Contract of Work. In November and December 2009, our direct ownership interest in Batu Hijau decreased from 45% to 35.44% as a result of the divestiture required under the Contract of Work.

Our exploration efforts are directed to the discovery of new mineralized material and converting it into proven and
probable reserves. We conduct near-mine exploration around our existing mines and greenfields exploration in other regions globally. Near-mine exploration can result in the discovery of additional deposits, which may receive the economic benefit of
existing operating, processing, and administrative infrastructures. In contrast, the discovery of mineralization through greenfields exploration efforts will likely require capital investment to build a stand-alone operation. Our

Exploration

expense was $350, $218 and $187 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

For additional information, see Item 2, Properties, Proven
and Probable Reserves.

Licenses and Concessions

Other than operating licenses for our mining and processing facilities, there are no third party patents, licenses or franchises material to our
business. In many countries, however, we conduct our mining and exploration activities pursuant to concessions granted by, or under contract with, the host government. These countries include, among others, Australia, Canada, Ghana, Indonesia,
Mexico, New Zealand, Peru and Suriname. The concessions and contracts are subject to the political risks associated with foreign operations. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, below. For a more detailed description of our Indonesian Contract of Work,
see Item 2, Properties, below.

Condition of Physical Assets and Insurance

Our business is capital intensive and requires ongoing capital investment for the replacement, modernization or expansion of equipment and
facilities. For more information, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, below.

We maintain insurance policies against property loss and business interruption and insure against risks that are typical in the operation of our
business, in amounts that we believe to be reasonable. Such insurance, however, contains exclusions and limitations on coverage, particularly with respect to



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

environmental liability and political risk. There can be no assurance that claims would be paid under such insurance policies in connection with a particular event. See Item 1A, Risk
Factors, below.

Environmental Matters

Our United States mining and exploration activities are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act; the Endangered Species Act; the Federal Land Policy and Management Act; the National Environmental Policy Act; the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act; and related state laws. These laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. Our activities outside the United States are also subject to governmental regulations for the
protection of the environment.

We conduct our operations so as to protect public health and the environment and believe our operations
are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects. Each operating mine has a reclamation plan in place that meets all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. At December 31, 2011, $1,070 was accrued for
reclamation costs relating to current or recently producing properties.

We are involved in several matters concerning environmental
obligations associated with former, primarily historic, mining activities. Generally, these matters concern developing and implementing remediation plans at the various sites. Based upon our best estimate of our liability for these matters, $170 was
accrued at December 31, 2011 for such obligations associated with properties previously owned or operated by us or our subsidiaries. The amounts accrued for these matters are reviewed periodically based upon facts and circumstances available at
the time.

For a discussion of the most significant reclamation and remediation activities, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Notes 4 and 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, below.

In addition to legal and regulatory compliance, we have developed complementary programs to guide our company toward achieving transparent and sustainable environmental and socially responsible performance
objectives. Evidencing our management’s commitment towards these objectives, our corporate headquarters are located in an environmentally sustainable, LEED, gold-certified building. We are committed to managing climate change related risks
and responsibly managing our greenhouse gas emissions. We have reported our greenhouse gas emissions annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2004, became a Founding Reporter on The Climate Registry in 2008, and by 2010, established programs
to publically report our independently-verified greenhouse gas emissions for all of our global operations. We actively participate in the International Council on Mining and Metals (“ICMM”) and are committed to the ICMM’s 10
Principles of Sustainable Development and its commitment to implement the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, bribery and corruption, labor and the environment. To ensure sound environmental management systems, 100% of
Newmont’s operations have achieved ISO 14001 certification by year-end 2011. We transparently report on our sustainability performance in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, including the Mining and Metals Sector
Supplement. As a result of our efforts, we continue to achieve milestones, such as being the first gold company listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World (“DJSI”), remaining a member of the DJSI World Index for five consecutive
years, and receiving International Cyanide Management Code certification at 100% of Newmont operated sites as of the end of 2011.

Employees and Contractors

Approximately 17,100 people were employed by Newmont at December 31, 2011. In addition,
approximately 25,800 people were working as contractors in support of Newmont’s operations.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this report (including information incorporated by reference) are “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbor provided for under these sections. Words such as
“expect(s)”, “feel(s)”, “believe(s)”, “will”, “may”, “anticipate(s)”, “estimate(s)”, “should”, “intend(s)” and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements may include, without limitation:

•

Estimates regarding future earnings and the sensitivity of earnings to gold and other metal prices;

•

Estimates of future mineral production and sales;

•

Estimates of future production costs, other expenses and taxes for specific operations and on a consolidated basis;

•

Estimates of future cash flows and the sensitivity of cash flows to gold and other metal prices;

•

Estimates of future capital expenditures, construction, production or closure activities and other cash needs, for specific operations and on a consolidated
basis, and expectations as to the funding or timing thereof;

•

Estimates as to the projected development of certain ore deposits, including the timing of such development, the costs of such development and other capital
costs, financing plans for these deposits and expected production commencement dates;

•

Estimates of reserves and statements regarding future exploration results and reserve replacement and the sensitivity of reserves to metal price changes;

•

Statements regarding the availability of, and terms and costs related to, future borrowing, debt repayment and financing;

•

Estimates regarding future exploration expenditures, results and reserves;

•

Statements regarding fluctuations in financial and currency markets;

•

Estimates regarding potential cost savings, productivity, operating performance and ownership and cost structures;

•

Expectations regarding the completion and timing of acquisitions or divestitures and projected synergies and costs associated with acquisitions;

•

Expectations regarding the start-up time, design, mine life, production and costs applicable to sales and exploration potential of our projects;

•

Statements regarding modifications to hedge and derivative positions;

•

Statements regarding political, economic or governmental conditions and environments;

•

Statements regarding future transactions;

•

Statements regarding the impacts of changes in the legal and regulatory environment in which we operate;

•

Estimates of future costs and other liabilities for certain environmental matters;

•

Estimates of income taxes; and

•

Estimates of pension and other post-retirement costs.



NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION

Where we express an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or
belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, our forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results
expressed, projected or implied by those forward-looking statements. Such risks include, but are not limited to:

•

The price of gold, copper and other commodities;

•

The cost of operations;

•

Currency fluctuations;

•

Geological and metallurgical assumptions;

•

Operating performance of equipment, processes and facilities;

•

Labor relations;

•

Timing of receipt of necessary governmental permits or approvals;

•

Domestic and foreign laws or regulations, particularly relating to the environment and mining;

•

Changes in tax laws;

•

Domestic and international economic and political conditions;

•

Our ability to obtain or maintain necessary financing; and

•

Other risks and hazards associated with mining operations.

More detailed information regarding these factors is included in Item 1, Business, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and elsewhere throughout this report. Given these uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements.

All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to
Newmont or to persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.

Available Information

Newmont maintains an internet web site at

www.newmont.com.

Newmont makes available, free of charge, through the Investor
Relations section of the web site, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Certain other information, including Newmont’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of key committees of its Board of Directors and its Code of Business Ethics and
Conduct are also available on the web site.