Item 1.Business



Corporate Information

We were incorporated in California in
1982, became a public company in 1994 and we reincorporated into Delaware in January 2012. Our principal executive offices are located at 14185 Dallas
Parkway, Suite 300, Dallas, Texas 75254 and our telephone number at that address is (972) 391-5000. Our website iswww.copart.com. The contents
of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We provide free of charge through a link on our website access to our Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably
practical after the reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

CopartTM, VB2TM, CopartDirectTM, BID4UTM, CoPartfinderTM, OutbidTM, CI & DesignTM, Cars with HeartTM, and Crashedtoys.comTM, are trademarks of Copart, Inc. This Form 10-K also includes other trademarks of Copart and
of other companies.

Overview

We are a leading provider of online
auctions and vehicle remarketing services in the United States (U.S.), Canada, the United Kingdom (U.K.), and Brazil. We also provide vehicle
remarketing services in the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.), Germany and Spain.

We provide vehicle sellers with a full
range of services to process and sell vehicles primarily over the Internet through our Virtual Bidding Second Generation Internet auction-style sales
technology, which we refer to as VB2. Vehicle sellers consist primarily of insurance
companies, but also include banks and financial institutions, charities, car dealerships, fleet operators and vehicle rental companies. We sell the
vehicles






principally to licensed vehicle
dismantlers, rebuilders, repair licensees, used vehicle dealers and exporters and, at certain locations, to the general public. The majority of the
vehicles sold on behalf of insurance companies are either damaged vehicles deemed a total loss or not economically repairable by the insurance
companies or are recovered stolen vehicles for which an insurance settlement with the vehicle owner has already been made. We offer vehicle sellers a
full range of services that expedite each stage of the vehicle sales process, minimize administrative and processing costs and maximize the ultimate
sales price.

In the U.S. and Canada (North America),
Brazil and the U.A.E. we sell vehicles primarily as an agent and derive revenue primarily from fees paid by vehicle sellers and vehicle buyers as well
as related fees for services such as towing and storage. In the U.K., we operate both on a principal basis, purchasing the salvage vehicles outright
from the insurance companies and reselling the vehicles for our own account, and as an agent. In Germany and Spain, we derive revenue from sales
listing fees for listing vehicles on behalf of many insurance companies.

We converted all of our North American
and U.K. sales to VB2during fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2008, respectively. VB2opens our sales process to registered buyers (whom we refer to as members) anywhere in the
world who have Internet access. This technology and model employs a two-step bidding process. The first step is an open preliminary bidding feature
that allows a member to enter bids either at a bidding station at the storage facility or over the Internet during the preview. To improve the
effectiveness of bidding, the VB2system lets members see the current high bids on the
vehicles they want to purchase. The preliminary bidding step is an open bid format similar to eBay®. Members enter the maximum price they are willing to pay for a vehicle and VB2’s BID4U feature will incrementally bid on the vehicle on their behalf during all phases of the auction. Preliminary bidding ends
one hour prior to the start of a second bidding step, an Internet-only virtual auction. This second step allows bidders the opportunity to bid against
each other and the high preliminary bidder. The bidders enter bids via the Internet in real time while BID4U submits bids for the high preliminary
bidder, up to their maximum bid. When bidding stops, a countdown is initiated. If no bids are received during the countdown, the vehicle sells to the
highest bidder.

We believe the implementation of VB2has increased the pool of available buyers for each sale, which has resulted in added
competition and an increase in the amount buyers are willing to pay for vehicles. We also believe that it has improved the efficiency of our operations
by eliminating the expense and capital requirements associated with live auctions. For fiscal 2013, sales of North American vehicles, on a unit basis,
to members registered outside the state where the vehicle is located accounted for 52.6% of total vehicles sold; 29.0% of vehicles were sold to out of
state members and 23.6% were sold to out of country members, based on registration. For fiscal 2013, sales of U.K. vehicles, on a unit basis, to
members registered outside the country where the vehicle is located accounted for 19.0% of total vehicles sold.

We believe that we offer the highest
level of service in the auction and vehicle remarketing industry and have established our leading market position by:

•providing coverage that facilitates seller access to buyers
around the world, reducing towing and third-party storage expenses, offering a local presence for vehicle inspection stations, and providing prompt
response to catastrophes and natural disasters by specially-trained teams;



•providing a comprehensive range of customer services that
include merchandising services, efficient title processing, timely pick-up and delivery of vehicles, and Internet sales;



•establishing and efficiently integrating new facilities and
acquisitions;



•increasing the number of bidders that can participate at each
sale through the ease and convenience of Internet bidding;



•applying technology to enhance operating efficiency through
Internet bidding, web-based order processing, salvage value quotes, electronic communication with members and sellers, vehicle imaging, and an online
used vehicle parts locator service; and








•providing the venue for insurance customers through our Virtual
Insured Exchange (VIX) product to contingently sell a vehicle through the auction process to establish its true value, allowing the insurance customer
to avoid dealing with estimated values when negotiating with owners who wish to retain their damaged vehicles.



Historically, we believe our business
has grown as a result of (i) acquisitions, (ii) increases in the overall volume in the salvage car market, (iii) growth in market share, (iv) increases
in amount of revenue generated per sales transaction resulting from increases in the gross selling price and the addition of value-added services for
both members and sellers, and (v) the growth in non-insurance company sellers. For fiscal 2013, which ended July 31, 2013, our revenues were $1,046.4
million and our operating income was $283.0 million.

In fiscal 2011, in North America, we
acquired one new facility located in Hartford City, Indiana, and we opened a new facility in Homestead, Florida. In the U.K. we acquired one facility
located in Birmingham, England.

In fiscal 2012, in North America, we
acquired two new facilities located in Calgary and Edmonton, Canada and we opened two new facilities in Atlanta, Georgia and Burlington, North
Carolina.

In fiscal 2013, we acquired five new
facilities in Sao Paulo, Brazil, one facility in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.), one facility in Ettlingen, Germany, one facility in Cordoba,
Spain, and 43 facilities in North America and we opened a new facility in Webster, New Hampshire.

Industry Overview

The auction and vehicle remarketing
services industry provides a venue for sellers to dispose of or liquidate vehicles to a broad domestic and international buyer pool. In North America,
sellers generally auction or sell their vehicles on consignment either for a fixed fee or a percentage of the sales price. On occasion in North America
and on a primary basis in the U.K., companies in our industry will purchase vehicles from the largest segment of sellers, insurance companies, and
resell the vehicles for their own account. The vehicles are usually purchased at a price based either on a percentage of the vehicles’ estimated
pre-accident cash value and/or based on the extent of damage. Vehicle remarketers typically operate from multiple facilities where vehicles are
processed, viewed, stored and delivered to the buyer. While most companies in this industry remarket vehicles through a physical auction, we sell all
of our vehicles on our Internet selling platform, VB2, thus eliminating the requirement for
buyers to travel to an auction location to participate in the sales process.

Although there are other sellers of
vehicles, such as banks and financial institutions, charities, car dealerships, fleet operators and vehicle rental companies, the primary sellers of
vehicles are insurance companies.

Automobile manufacturers continuously
incorporate new standard features, including unibody construction utilizing exotic metals, passenger safety cages with surrounding crumple zones to
absorb impacts, plastic and ceramic components, airbags, adaptive headlights, computer systems, advanced cameras, collision warning systems, and
navigation systems. We believe that one effect of these additional features is that newer vehicles involved in accidents are more costly to repair and,
accordingly, more likely to be deemed a total loss for insurance purposes.

The primary buyers of the vehicles are
vehicle dismantlers, rebuilders, repair licensees, used vehicle dealers, exporters and in some states, the general public. Vehicle dismantlers, which
we believe are the largest group of vehicle buyers, either dismantle a salvage vehicle and sell parts individually or sell the entire vehicle to
rebuilders, used vehicle dealers, or the general public. Vehicle rebuilders and vehicle repair licensees generally purchase salvage vehicles to repair
and resell. Used vehicle dealers generally purchase recovered stolen or slightly damaged vehicles for resale.






The majority of our vehicles are sold
on behalf of insurance companies and are usually vehicles involved in an accident. Typically the damaged vehicle is towed to a storage facility or a
vehicle repair facility for temporary storage pending insurance company examination. The vehicle is inspected by the insurance company’s adjuster,
who estimates the costs of repairing the vehicle and gathers information regarding the damaged vehicle’s mileage, options and condition in order
to estimate its pre-accident value (PAV), or actual cash value (ACV). The adjuster determines whether to pay for repairs or to classify the vehicle as
a total loss based upon the adjuster’s estimate of repair costs, vehicle’s salvage value, and the PAV or ACV, as well as customer service
considerations. If the cost of repair is greater than the pre-accident value less the estimated salvage value, the insurance company generally will
classify the vehicle as a total loss. The insurance company will thereafter assign the vehicle to a vehicle auction and remarketing services company,
settle with the insured and receive title to the vehicle.

We believe the primary factors that
insurance companies consider when selecting an auction and vehicle remarketing services company include:

•the anticipated percentage return on salvage (i.e., gross
salvage proceeds, minus vehicle handling and selling expenses, divided by the actual cash value);



•the services provided by the company and the degree to which
such services reduce administrative costs and expenses;



•the price the company charges for its services;



•national coverage;



•the ability to respond to natural disasters;



•the ability to provide analytical data to the seller;
and



•in the U.K., the actual amount paid for the vehicle.



In the U.K., insurance companies
generally tender periodic contracts for the purchase of salvaged vehicles. The insurance company will generally award the contract to the company that
is willing to pay the highest price for the vehicles.

Generally, upon receipt of the pickup
order (the assignment), we arrange for the transport of a vehicle to a facility. As a service to the vehicle seller, we will customarily pay advance
charges (reimbursable charges paid on behalf of vehicle sellers) to obtain the vehicle’s release from a towing company, vehicle repair facility or
impound facility. Advance charges paid on behalf of the vehicle seller are either recovered upon sale of the vehicle, invoiced separately to the seller
or deducted from the net proceeds due to the seller.

The salvage vehicle then remains in
storage at one of our facilities until ownership documents are transferred from the insured vehicle owner and the title to the vehicle is cleared
through the appropriate state’s motor vehicle regulatory agency, or DMV. In the U.S., total loss vehicles may be sold in most states only after
obtaining a salvage title from the DMV. Upon receipt of the appropriate documentation from the DMV, which is generally received within 45 to 60 days of
vehicle pick-up, the vehicle is sold either on behalf of the insurance company or for our own account, depending on the terms of the contract. In the
U.K., upon release of interest by the vehicle owner, the insurance company notifies us that the vehicle is available for sale.

Generally, sellers of non-salvage
vehicles will arrange to deliver the vehicle to one of our locations. At that time, the vehicle information will be uploaded to our system and made
available for buyers to review online. The vehicle is then sold either at a live auction or, in our case, on VB2typically within seven days. Proceeds are then collected from the member, seller fees are subtracted and the
remainder is remitted to the seller.






Operating and Growth Strategy

Our growth strategy is to increase our
revenues and profitability by, among other things, (i) acquiring and developing new facilities in key markets including foreign markets, (ii) pursuing
national and regional vehicle supply agreements, (iii) expanding our online auctions and vehicle remarketing service offerings to sellers and members,
and (iv) expanding the application of VB2into new markets and to new sellers within the
vehicle market. In addition, to maximize gross sales proceeds and cost efficiencies at each of our acquired facilities we introduce our (i) pricing
structure, (ii) selling processes, (iii) operational procedures, (iv) management information systems, and (v) when appropriate, redeploy existing
personnel.

As part of our overall expansion
strategy, our objective is to increase our revenues, operating profits, and market share in the vehicle sales industry. To implement our growth
strategy, we intend to continue to do the following:

Acquire and Develop New Vehicle
Storage Facilities in Key Markets Including Foreign Markets

Our strategy is to offer integrated
services to vehicle sellers on a national or regional basis by acquiring or developing facilities in new and existing markets. We integrate our new
acquisitions into our global network and capitalize on certain operating efficiencies resulting from, among other things, the reduction of duplicative
overhead and the implementation of our operating procedures.

The following table sets forth
facilities that we have acquired or opened from August 1, 2010 through July 31, 2013:



LocationsAcquisition orGreenfieldDateGeographic Service AreaHomestead, FloridaGreenfieldSeptember 2010United StatesHartford City, IndianaAcquisitionMarch 2011United StatesAtlanta, GeorgiaGreenfieldAugust 2011United StatesBurlington, North CarolinaGreenfieldJuly 2012United StatesWebster, New HampshireGreenfieldSeptember 2012United StatesGainesville, GeorgiaAcquisitionMay 2013United StatesDavison, MichiganAcquisitionMay 2013United StatesIonia, MichiganAcquisitionMay 2013United StatesKincheloe, MichiganAcquisitionMay 2013United StatesSalvage Parent, Inc.*AcquisitionMay 2013United StatesBirmingham, EnglandAcquisitionMarch 2011United KingdomEdmonton, CanadaAcquisitionMay 2012CanadaCalgary, CanadaAcquisitionMay 2012CanadaDubai, U.A.E.AcquisitionAugust 2012United Arab EmiratesEmbu, BrazilAcquisitionNovember 2012BrazilPirapora, BrazilAcquisitionNovember 2012BrazilOsasco, BrazilAcquisitionNovember 2012BrazilCastelo Branco, BrazilAcquisitionNovember 2012BrazilVila Jaguara, BrazilAcquisitionNovember 2012BrazilEttlingen, GermanyAcquisitionNovember 2012GermanyCordoba, SpainAcquisitionJune 2013Spain





*Salvage Parent, Inc. conducts business primarily as Quad City
Salvage Auction, Crashed Toys, and Desert View Auto Auctions. Combined, these businesses operate at 39 locations in 14 states.








Pursue National and Regional
Vehicle Supply Agreements

Our broad national presence enhances
our ability to enter into local, regional or national supply agreements with vehicle sellers. We actively seek to establish national and regional
supply agreements with insurance companies by promoting our ability to achieve high net returns and broader access to buyers through our national
coverage and electronic commerce capabilities. By utilizing our existing insurance company seller relationships, we are able to build new seller
relationships and pursue additional supply agreements in existing and new markets.

Expand Our Service Offerings to
Sellers and Members

Over the past several years, we have
expanded our available service offerings to vehicle sellers and members. The primary focus of these new service offerings is to maximize returns to our
sellers and maximize product value to our members. This includes, for our sellers, real-time access to sales data over the Internet, national coverage,
the ability to respond on a national scale and, for our members, the implementation of VB2real-time bidding at all of our facilities, permitting members at any location worldwide to participate in the sales at all of our yards. We plan to
continue to refine and expand our services, including offering software that can assist our sellers in expediting claims and salvage management tools
that help sellers integrate their systems with ours.

Our Competitive Advantages

We believe that the following
attributes and the services that we offer position us to take advantage of many opportunities in the online vehicle auction and services
industry:

National Coverage and Ability to
Respond on a National Scale

Since our inception in 1982, we have
expanded from a single facility in Vallejo, California to an integrated network of facilities located in the United States, Canada, the U.K., the
U.A.E., Brazil, Germany and Spain. We are able to offer integrated services to our vehicle sellers, which allow us to respond to the needs of our
sellers and members with maximum efficiency. Our coverage provides our sellers with key advantages, including:

•a reduction in administrative time and effort;



•a reduction in overall vehicle towing costs;



•convenient local facilities;



•improved access to buyers throughout the world;



•a prompt response in the event of a natural disaster or other
catastrophe; and



•consistency in products and services.



Value-Added
Services

We believe that we offer the most
comprehensive range of services in our industry, including:

•Internet bidding, Internet proxy bidding, and virtual sales
powered by VB2, which enhance the competitive bidding process;



•A mobile application, which allows members to search, bid,
create watchlists, join auctions and bid from anywhere;



•online payment capabilities via our ePay product, credit cards
and dealer financing programs;



•e-mail notifications to potential buyers of vehicles that match
desired characteristics;








•sophisticated vehicle processing at storage sites, including
ten-view digital imaging of each vehicle and the scanning of each vehicle’s title and other significant documents such as body shop invoices, all
of which are available from us over the Internet;



•CoPartfinder, our Internet-based used vehicle parts locator that
provides vehicle dismantlers with greater resale opportunities for their purchases;



•specialty sales, which allow buyers the opportunity to focus on
such select types of vehicles as motorcycles, heavy equipment, boats, recreational vehicles and rental cars;



•Interactive online counter-bidding, which allows sellers who
have placed a minimum bid or a bid to be approved on a vehicle to directly counter-bid the current high bidder;



•2nd chance bidding, which allows the second highest bidder the
opportunity to purchase the vehicle for the seller’s current minimum bid after the high bidder declines; and



•Night Cap sales, which provides an additional opportunity for
bidding on vehicles that did not achieve their minimum bid during the virtual sale, counter bidding, or 2nd chance bidding.



Proven Ability to Acquire and
Integrate Acquisitions

We have a proven track record of
successfully acquiring and integrating vehicle storage facilities. Since becoming a public company in 1994, we have completed acquisitions of
facilities in North America, U.K., the U.A.E., Brazil, Germany and Spain. As part of our acquisition and integration strategy, we seek
to:

•expand our global presence;



•strengthen our networks and access new markets;



•utilize our existing corporate and technology infrastructure
over a larger base of operations; and



•introduce our comprehensive services and operational
expertise.



We strive to integrate all new
facilities, when appropriate, into our existing network without disruption of service to vehicle sellers. We work with new sellers to implement our fee
structures and new service programs. We typically retain existing employees at acquired facilities in order to retain knowledge about, and respond to,
the local market. We also assign a special integration team to help convert newly acquired facilities to our own management information and proprietary
software systems, enabling us to ensure a smooth and consistent transition to our business operating and sales systems.

Technology to Enhance and Expand
Our Business

We have developed management
information and proprietary software systems that allow us to deliver a fully integrated service offering. Our proprietary software programs provide
vehicle sellers with online access to data and reports regarding their vehicles being processed at any of our facilities. This technology allows
vehicle sellers to monitor each stage of our vehicle sales process, from pick up to sale and settlement by the buyer. Our full range of Internet
services allows us to expedite each stage of the vehicle sales process and minimizes the administrative and processing costs for us as well as our
sellers. We believe that our integrated technology systems generate improved capacity and financial returns for our clients, resulting in high client
retention, and allow us to expand our national supply contracts.

Our Service Offerings

We offer vehicle sellers a full range
of vehicle services, which expedite each stage of the vehicle sales process, maximizing proceeds and minimizing costs. Not all service offerings are
available in all markets. Our service offerings include the following:






Online Seller
Access

Through Copart Access, our
Internet-based service for vehicle sellers, we enable sellers to assign vehicles for sale, check sales calendars, view vehicle images and history, view
and reprint body shop invoices and towing receipts and view the historical performance of the vehicles sold at our sales.

Salvage Estimation
Services

We offer Copart ProQuote and Enhanced
ProQuote, proprietary services that assist sellers in the vehicle claims evaluation process by providing online salvage value estimates, which help
sellers determine whether to repair a particular vehicle or deem it a total loss.

Estimating
Services

We offer vehicle sellers in the U.K.
estimating services for vehicles taken to our facilities. Estimating services provide our insurance company sellers repair estimates which allow the
insurance company to determine if the vehicle is a total loss vehicle. If the vehicle is determined to be a total loss, it is generally assigned to
inventory.

End-of-Life Vehicle
Processing

In the U.K., we are an authorized
treatment facility, or ATF, for the disposal of End-of-Life vehicles, or ELVs.

Virtual Insured Exchange
(VIX)

We provide the venue for insurance
customers to enter a vehicle into a sealed bid sale to establish its true value, thereby allowing the insurance customer to avoid dealing with
estimated values when negotiating with owners who wish to retain their damaged vehicles.

Transportation
Services

We maintain contracts with third-party
vehicle transport companies, which enable us to pick up most of our sellers’ vehicles within 24 hours. Our national network and transportation
capabilities provide cost and time savings to our vehicle sellers and ensure on-time vehicle pick up and prompt response to catastrophes and natural
disasters in North America. In the U.K., we perform transportation services through a combination of our fleet of over 100 vehicles and third-party
vehicle transport companies.

Vehicle Inspection
Stations

We offer some of our major insurance
company sellers, office and yard space to house vehicle inspection stations on-site at our facilities. We have over 90 vehicle inspection stations at
our facilities. An on-site vehicle inspection station provides our insurance company sellers with a central location to inspect potential total loss
vehicles, which reduces storage charges that otherwise may be incurred at the initial storage or repair facility.

On-Demand
Reporting

We provide vehicle sellers with real
time data for vehicles that we process for the particular seller. This includes vehicle sellers’ gross and net returns on each vehicle, service
charges, and other data that enable our vehicle sellers to more easily administer and monitor the vehicle disposition process. In addition, we have
developed a database containing over 240 fields of real-time and historical information accessible by our sellers allowing for their generation of
custom ad hoc reports and customer specific analysis.






DMV
Processing

We have extensive expertise in DMV
document and title processing for salvage vehicles. We have developed a computer system which provides a direct link to the DMV computer systems of
several states, allowing us to expedite the processing of vehicle title paperwork.

Flexible Vehicle Processing
Programs

At the election of the seller, we sell
vehicles pursuant to our Percentage Incentive Program (PIP), Consignment Program or Purchase Program.

Percentage Incentive Program.Our Percentage Incentive Program is an innovative processing program designed to broadly serve the needs of vehicle sellers. Under PIP, we agree to
sell all of the vehicles of a seller in a specified market, usually for a predetermined percentage of the vehicle sales price. Because our revenues
under PIP are directly linked to the vehicle’s sale price, we have an incentive to actively merchandise those vehicles to maximize the net return.
We provide the vehicle seller, at our expense, with transport of the vehicle to our nearest facility, and DMV document and title processing. In
addition, we provide merchandising services such as covering or taping openings to protect vehicle interiors from weather, washing vehicle exteriors,
vacuuming vehicle interiors, cleaning and polishing dashboards and tires, making keys for drivable vehicles, and identifying drivable vehicles. We
believe our merchandising efforts increase the sales prices of the vehicles, thereby increasing the return on salvage vehicles to both vehicle sellers
and us.

Consignment Program.Under our
consignment program, we sell vehicles for a fixed consignment fee. Although sometimes included in the consignment fee, we may also charge additional
fees for the cost of transporting the vehicle to our facility, storage of the vehicle, and other incidental costs.

Purchase Program.Under the
purchase program, we purchase vehicles from a vehicle seller at a formula price, based on a percentage of the vehicles’ estimated pre-accident
value (PAV), or actual cash value (ACV), and sell the vehicles for our own account. Currently, the purchase program is offered primarily in the
U.K.

Buy It
Now

We offer an option to our members to
purchase specific pre-qualified vehicles immediately at a set price before the live auction process. This enables us to provide a fast, easy,
transparent and comprehensive buying option on these pre-qualified vehicles.

Member
Network

We maintain a database of thousands of
members in the vehicle dismantling, rebuilding, repair licensee, used vehicle dealer and export industries, as well as the general public as we sell
directly to the general public at certain locations. Our database includes each member’s vehicle preference and purchasing history. This data
enables us to notify via e-mail prospective buyers throughout the world of vehicles available for bidding that match their vehicle preferences.
Listings of vehicles to be sold on a particular day and location are also made available on the Internet.

Sales
Process

We offer a flexible and unique sales
process designed to maximize the sale prices of the vehicles utilizing VB2. VB2opens our sales process to registered members anywhere in the world who have Internet access.
The VB2technology and model employs a two-step bidding process. The first step is an open
preliminary bidding feature that allows a member to enter bids either at a bidding station at the storage facility during the preview days or over the
Internet. To improve the effectiveness of bidding, the VB2system lets a member see the
current high bid on the vehicle they want to purchase. The preliminary bidding step is an open bid format similar to eBay®. Members enter the maximum price they are willing to pay for a vehicle and VB2’s BID4U feature will incrementally bid the vehicle on their behalf during all steps of the auction. Preliminary
bidding






ends one hour prior to the start of
a second bidding step, an Internet-only virtual auction. This second step allows bidders the opportunity to bid against each other and the highest
preliminary bidder. The bidders enter bids via the Internet in real time, and then BID4U submits bids for the highest preliminary bidder, up to their
maximum bid. When bidding stops, a countdown is initiated. If no bids are received during the countdown, the vehicle sells to the highest
bidder.

CoPartfinder

CoPartfinder is our unique Internet
“search engine” that enables users to locate used vehicle parts quickly and efficiently. CoPartfinder is accessible by the public through a
Copart-sponsored website. CoPartfinder lists vehicles recently sold through VB2and
identifies certain purchasers. This allows vehicle dismantlers and other resellers to streamline their parts sale process and access a large pool of
potential buyers. Parts buyers can use CoPartfinder to search for specific vehicle makes and models and view digital images of vehicles that meet their
requirements. Once a specific parts seller is identified for a specific part requirement, buyers have the option to call, fax, or e-mail the
dismantler/seller. We believe that CoPartfinder provides an incentive for vehicle dismantlers to purchase their salvage vehicles through our sales
process.

Copart Dealer
Services

We provide franchise and independent
dealers with a convenient method to sell their trade-ins through any of our facilities. We have a dedicated group of employees in North America that
target these dealers and work with them throughout the sales process.

CopartDirect

We provide the general public with a
fast and convenient method to sell their vehicles to any of our North American facilities. Anyone can call 1-888-Sell-it-1 and arrange to obtain a
valid offer to purchase their vehicle. Upon acceptance of our offer to purchase their vehicle we give them a check for their vehicle and then sell the
vehicle on our own behalf.

U-Pull-It

In the U.K., we have two facilities
from which the public can purchase parts from salvaged and end-of-life vehicles. In general, the buyer is responsible for detaching the parts from the
vehicle and any associated hauling or transportation of the parts after detachment. After the valuable parts have been removed by the buyer, the
remaining parts and car body are sold for their scrap value.

Sales

We process vehicles from hundreds of
different vehicle sellers. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011. We obtained 82% of the total
number of vehicles processed during fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, from insurance company sellers. Our arrangements with our sellers are typically
subject to cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days notice.

We typically contract with the regional
or branch office of an insurance company or other vehicle sellers. The agreements are customized to each vehicle seller’s particular needs and
often provide for the disposition of different types of salvage vehicles by differing methods. Our arrangements generally provide that we will sell
total loss and recovered stolen vehicles generated by the vehicle seller in a designated geographic area.

We market our services to vehicle
sellers through an in-house sales force that utilize a variety of sales techniques, including targeted mailing of our sales literature, telemarketing,
follow-up personal sales calls, Internet search engines, employee referrals, tow shop referrals, participation in trade shows and vehicle and insurance
industry conventions. We market our services to franchise and independent dealerships as well as the general public under CopartDirect by utilizing an
in-house sales force. We may, when appropriate, provide






vehicle sellers with detailed
analysis of the net return on vehicles and a proposal setting forth ways in which we believe that we can improve net returns on vehicles and reduce
administrative costs and expenses.

During the last three years, a majority
of our revenue was generated within North America and a majority of our long-lived assets are located within the United States. Please seeNote 14.
Segments and Other Geographic Informationin our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the geographic location of
our sales and our long-lived assets.

Members

We maintain a database of thousands of
registered members in the vehicle dismantling, rebuilding, repair licensee, used vehicle dealer and export industries. We believe that we have
established a broad international and domestic buyer base by providing members with a variety of programs and services. To become a registered member
and gain admission to one of our sales, prospective members must first pay an initial registration fee and an annual fee, provide requested personal
and business information, and have, in most states, a vehicle dismantler’s, dealer’s, resale, repair or export license. In certain venues we
may sell to the general public. Registration entitles a member to transact business at any of our sales subject to local licensing and permitting
requirements. However, non-registered buyers may transact business at any of our sales via a registered broker who meets the local licensing and
permitting requirements. A member may also bring guests to a facility for a fee to preview vehicles for sale. Strict admission procedures are intended
to prevent frivolous bids that would invalidate the sale. We market to members on the Internet and via e-mail notifications, sales notices,
telemarketing, and participation in trade show events.

Competition

We face significant competition from
other remarketers of both salvage and non-salvage vehicles. We believe our principal competitors include vehicle auction and sales companies and
vehicle dismantlers. These national, regional and local competitors may have established relationships with vehicle sellers and buyers and may have
financial resources that are greater than ours. The largest national or regional vehicle auctioneers in North America include KAR Auction Services,
Inc. (formerly ADESA, Inc. and Insurance Auto Auctions, Inc.), Auction Broadcasting Company, LLC, and Manheim, Inc. The largest national dismantler is
LKQ Corporation, Inc. (LKQ). LKQ, in addition to trade groups of dismantlers such as the American Recycling Association and the United Recyclers Group,
LLC, may purchase salvage vehicles directly from insurance companies, thereby bypassing vehicle remarketing companies entirely. In the U.K., our
principal competitors are privately held independent remarketers.

Management Information Systems

Our primary management information
system consists of an IBM AS/400 mainframe computer system, integrated computer interfaces, and proprietary business operating software that we
developed and which tracks salvage sales vehicles throughout the sales process. We have implemented our proprietary business operating software at the
majority of our storage facilities. In addition, we have integrated our mainframe computer system with Internet and Intranet systems in order to
provide secure access to our data and images in a variety of formats.

Our auction-style service product,
VB2, is served by an array of identical high-density, high-performance servers. Each
individual sale is configured to run on an available server in the array and can be rapidly provisioned to any other available server in the array as
required.

We have invested in a production data
center that is designed to run the business in the event of an emergency. The facility’s electrical and mechanical systems are continually
monitored. This facility is located in an area considered to be free of weather-related disasters and earthquakes.






We are planning to convert to a new
standard Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. Implementation of the new ERP system is scheduled to occur in phases through fiscal 2014 and
2015.

Employees

As of July 31, 2013, we had 3,875
full-time employees, of whom 1,055 were engaged in general and administrative functions and 2,820 were engaged in yard operations. We are not currently
subject to any collective bargaining agreements and believe our relationships with our employees are good. Employees per geographic region are as
follows:



NorthAmericaUnitedKingdomOtherTotalEmployees3,0106821833,875



Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to various
laws and regulations regarding the protection of the environment. In the salvage vehicle remarketing industry, large numbers of wrecked vehicles are
stored at facilities and, during that time, spills of fuel, motor oils and other fluids may occur, resulting in soil, surface water or groundwater
contamination. Certain of our facilities store petroleum products and other hazardous materials in above-ground containment tanks and some of our
facilities generate waste materials such as solvents or used oils that must be disposed of as non-hazardous or hazardous waste, as appropriate. We have
implemented procedures to reduce the amount of soil contamination that may occur at our facilities, and we have initiated safety programs and training
of personnel on the safe storage and handling of hazardous materials. We believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with all
applicable environmental regulations and we do not anticipate any material capital expenditures to remain in environmental compliance. If additional or
more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional capital expenditures.

Governmental Regulations

Our operations are subject to
regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, national, international, provincial, state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations.
The acquisition and sale of damaged and recovered stolen vehicles is regulated by various state, provincial and international motor vehicle
departments. In addition to the regulation of sales and acquisitions of vehicles, we are also subject to various local zoning requirements with regard
to the location of our storage facilities. These zoning requirements vary from location to location. At various times, we may be involved in disputes
with local governmental officials regarding the development and/or operation of our business facilities. We believe that we are in compliance, in all
material respects, with applicable regulatory requirements. We may be subject to similar types of regulations by federal, national, international,
provincial, state, and local governmental agencies in new markets.

Intellectual Property and Proprietary
Rights

In June 2003, we filed a provisional
U.S. patent application on VB2in the United States. This provisional patent application
was followed by a U.S. utility application filed in July 2003. The patent was issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office on January 1,
2008. Generally, patents issued in the U.S. are effective for 20 years from the earliest asserted filing date of the patent application. In fiscal
2004, we received a patent from Australia. The duration of foreign patents varies in accordance with the provisions of applicable local
law.

We also rely on a combination of trade
secret, copyright and trademark laws, as well as contractual agreements to safeguard our proprietary rights in technology and products. In seeking to
limit access to sensitive information to the greatest practical extent, we routinely enter into confidentiality and assignment of






invention agreements with each of
our employees and consultants and nondisclosure agreements with our key customers and vendors.

Seasonality

Historically, our consolidated results
of operations have been subject to quarterly variations based on a variety of factors, of which the primary influence is the seasonal change in weather
patterns. During the winter months we tend to have higher demand for our services because there are more weather-related accidents.

