Item 1.Business

Overview

We are a
leading global provider of investment decision support tools, including indices, portfolio risk and performance analytics and corporate governance products and services. Our products and services address multiple markets, asset classes and
geographies and are sold to a diverse client base, including asset owners, such as pension funds, endowments, foundations, central banks, family offices and insurance companies; institutional and retail asset managers, such as managers of pension
assets, mutual funds, exchange traded funds (“ETFs”), real estate, hedge funds and private wealth; financial intermediaries, such as banks, broker-dealers, exchanges, custodians and investment consultants; and corporate clients. As of
December 31, 2012, we had approximately 7,500 clients across 83 countries. We had offices in 33 cities in 22 countries to help serve our diverse client base, with 54.5% of our revenue from clients in the Americas, 32.4% in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa (“EMEA”) and 13.1% in Asia and Australia, based on revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. See “—Clients” below for an explanation of how we calculate our number of clients.

The Company consists of two industry leading businesses: the Performance and Risk business and the Governance business. Together, these
businesses offer what we believe is the most comprehensive suite of performance, risk management and corporate governance products and services available in our industry. See “—Company History and Acquisitions” below.

Our Performance and Risk business is a leading global provider of investment decision support tools, including equity indices, real
estate indices and benchmarks, portfolio risk and performance analytics, credit analytics and environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) products. Our Performance and Risk products are used in many areas of the investment process,
including portfolio construction and rebalancing, performance benchmarking and attribution, risk management and analysis, regulatory and client reporting, index-linked investment product creation, asset allocation, assessment of social
responsibility, environmental stewardship and the effects of climate change on investments, investment manager selection and investment research.

Our Governance business is a leading provider of corporate governance products and services and specialized financial research and analysis services to institutional investors and corporations around the
world. Among other things, the Governance business facilitates the voting of proxies by institutional investors and provides in-depth research and analysis to help inform voting decisions and identify issuer-specific risk. The Governance business
offers both global equity security coverage and fully integrated products and services, including proxy voting, policy creation, research, vote recommendations, vote execution, post-vote disclosure and reporting and analytical tools. It also
provides class action monitoring and claims filing services to aid institutional investors in the recovery of funds from securities class action settlements. Within a firewall designed to separate it from the rest of the Governance business, a unit
of the Governance business also provides products and services to corporate clients who may use those products and services to learn about and improve their governance and executive compensation practices.







Our principal sales model in both of our business segments is to license annual, recurring
subscriptions to our products and services for use at specified locations, often by a given number of users or for a certain volume of services, for an annual fee paid up front. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately $784.3
million, or 82.5%, of our revenues was attributable to annual, recurring subscriptions. An additional $140.9 million of our revenues came from clients who use our indices as the basis for index-linked investment products such as ETFs. We also
derived revenues from certain institutional clients that used our indices as the basis for passively managed funds and separate accounts. These clients commonly pay us a license fee for the use of our intellectual property based on the investment
product’s assets. We generated a limited amount of our revenues from certain exchanges that used our indices as the basis for futures and options contracts and paid us a license fee for the use of our intellectual property based on their volume
of trades. We also received revenues from one-time fees related to implementation, historical or customized reports, advisory and consulting services, overages relating to proxy research and voting services, fees relating to recovery of securities
class action settlements and from certain products and services that are designed for one-time usage.

Company History and Acquisitions

We were a pioneer in developing the market for global equity index products and began licensing our first equity index
products in 1969. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1998 and until we became a public company in November 2007 our only two shareholders were Morgan Stanley and Capital Group International, Inc. (“Capital Group International”).

In June 2004, we acquired Barra, Inc. (“Barra”), a provider of portfolio risk analytics tools that launched its
first risk analytics products in 1975, broadening our product range beyond index products.

In November 2007, we completed an
initial public offering (“IPO”) of approximately 16.1 million shares of our class A common stock. In connection with the IPO, we reclassified our outstanding common stock into shares of class A common stock and class B common stock
and immediately following the IPO, Morgan Stanley and Capital Group International held approximately 81.0 million and 2.9 million shares of our class B common stock, respectively. Morgan Stanley and Capital Group International converted
and sold their remaining shares of our class B common stock in subsequent registered secondary equity offerings from May 2008 through May 2009. Although we began the transition to an independent, stand-alone public company at the time of our IPO in
November 2007, we became an independent, stand-alone public company following the May 2009 secondary offering. At MSCI’s annual shareholders meeting held on May 2, 2012, the shareholders approved amendments to the MSCI Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation to (i) eliminate our authorized class B common stock, (ii) increase the total number of authorized shares of class A common stock by the aggregate number of shares of class B common stock being eliminated,
(iii) rename the Company’s class A common stock as “common stock” and (iv) make certain other conforming changes.

In June 2010, we acquired RiskMetrics, a leading provider of, among other things, risk management and governance products and services, in a cash-and-stock transaction valued at $1,572.4 million. In
addition to its risk management products and services, RiskMetrics owned Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. (“ISS”), a pioneer in the development of policy-based proxy voting recommendations. ISS expanded our product and service
offerings to include a fully-outsourced proxy research, voting and vote reporting service, a class action monitoring and claims filing service and corporate governance products and services. RiskMetrics acquired the Center for Financial Research and
Analysis (“CFRA”), Innovest Strategic Value Advisors, Inc. (“Innovest”) and KLD Research and Analytics, Inc. (“KLD”) in August 2007, March 2009 and October 2009, respectively. The acquisitions of these companies
has permitted us to offer financial research and analysis products that provide our clients with research reports and analytical tools covering many investment criteria that we believe have become increasingly important to investors, including
accounting and compensation practices, and environmental, social and governance products and services.

In July 2010, we
acquired Measurisk, LLC (“Measurisk”), a provider of risk transparency and risk measurement tools for hedge fund investors, to aid us in developing a broad platform and setting the standard for analyzing and reporting hedge fund risk in
response to our clients’ demands for increasing levels of transparency from their hedge fund managers.

In November 2012,
we acquired real estate performance measurement group IPD Group Limited (“IPD”). Headquartered in London, England with 9 offices around the world, IPD is a leading provider of real estate performance analysis for funds, investors,
managers, lenders and occupiers and offers a wide range of services that include research, reporting, benchmarking and indices. The acquisition of IPD expands MSCI’s multi-asset class offering by facilitating the integration of private real
estate assets into our models, as well as adding a family of real estate indices to MSCI’s family of equity indices. IPD is dedicated to the objective measurement of the commercial real estate market. Revenues attributable to IPD’s product
offerings will be included in our existing index and ESG products category.

In January 2013, we acquired Investor Force
Holdings, Inc. (“InvestorForce”), a leading provider of performance reporting solutions to the institutional investment community in the U.S., providing investment consultants with an integrated







solution for daily monitoring, analysis and reporting on institutional assets. Revenues attributable to InvestorForce’s product offerings will be included in our existing risk management
analytics products category.

Over the course of more than 40 years, we believe our organization has accumulated an in-depth
understanding of the investment process worldwide. Based on this wealth of knowledge, we have created and continue to develop, enhance and refine sophisticated tools to meet the growing, complex and diverse needs of our clients’ investment and
governance processes. Our models and methodologies are the intellectual foundation of our business and include the innovative algorithms, formulas and analytical and quantitative techniques that we use, together with market data, to produce our
products. Our long history has allowed us to build extensive databases of proprietary index, risk and governance data, as well as accumulate valuable historical market data, which we believe would be difficult to replicate and which provides us with
a substantial competitive advantage.

Our revenues and the number of our employees have grown significantly, both organically
and through acquisitions, such as those described above. As we have grown, we have increased our operations outside of the United States. We currently have branches or subsidiaries located in the following countries: Australia, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, Cayman Islands, China, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, United Arab Emirates, the U.K. and the U.S.

Business Segments, Products and Services

We divide our business operations into two segments: the Performance and Risk business and the Governance business. Business segment revenue, segment income from operations and assets attributable to
foreign and domestic operations are set forth in Note 14, “Segment Information,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein.

Performance and Risk Business Segment

Index and ESG Products

Our MSCI-branded global equity indices are designed to measure returns available to investors across a wide variety of equity markets
(e.g., Europe, Japan or emerging markets), sizes (e.g., small capitalization or large capitalization), styles (e.g., growth or value), industries (e.g., banks or media), strategies (e.g., risk premia) and themes
(e.g.,economic exposure). Our IPD benchmarks are designed to measure the performance and risk indicators of our clients against their peers. Our MSCI-branded ESG indices are designed to help clients incorporate environmental, social and
governance factors into their investment processes. As of December 31, 2012, we calculated over 160,000 indices daily.

In addition to delivering our products directly to our clients, as of December 31, 2012, there were more than 65 third-party
financial information and analytics software providers that distribute our various equity index products worldwide. The performance of our equity indices is also frequently referenced when selecting investment managers, assigning return benchmarks
in mandates, comparing performance and providing market and academic commentary. The performance of certain of our equity indices is reported on a daily basis in the financial media.

Our primary equity index products include:







•MSCI Global Equity Indices. The MSCI Global Equity Indices are our flagship index products. They are designed to measure returns available to
global investors across a variety of public equity markets. As of December 31, 2012, the MSCI Global Equity Indices provided exhaustive equity market coverage for over 75 countries in our developed, emerging and frontier market categories, as well
as various regional and composite indices built from the component country indices, including the MSCI EAFE (Europe, Australasia, and Far East), MSCI World, MSCI ACWI IMI (All Country World Investable Market Index) and MSCI Emerging Market Indices.
In addition, the MSCI Global Equity Indices include industry indices, value and growth style indices and large-, mid-, small- and micro-capitalization size segment indices.

We believe that the MSCI Global Equity Indices are the most widely used benchmarks for cross-border equity funds. Various pension plans
continue to announce their adoption of one of our broadest equity indices, MSCI ACWI IMI, as the policy benchmark for their equity portfolios. We also continue to enhance and expand successful product offerings as evidenced by the launch of tradable
indices (e.g., MSCI China A 50 Index and MSCI Frontier Markets 100 Index) to be used as the basis for financial products such as ETFs.



•MSCI Risk Premia Indices.The MSCI Risk Premia Indices seek to address an emerging trend among institutional investors whose asset allocation
processes are gradually shifting from asset classes to risk groupings such as growth, income, inflation, volatility and liquidity. The MSCI Risk Premia Indices capture the many equity return components that were once considered added value, or
alpha, but that can be attributed to sources of systematic return such as value, size, volatility, or momentum. Today, MSCI offers a wide array of such risk premia or alternative beta indices, including the MSCI Minimum Volatility, Risk Weighted,
Value Weighted Indices and the recently introduced MSCI Quality Indices.



•MSCI Economic Exposure Products and Indices.MSCI recently launched economic exposure data modules to provide clients with a systematic
framework for measuring global sources of revenue for each security across a portfolio or equity opportunity set. The economic exposure of companies can serve as a complementary or alternative definition of the country factor and can bring a new
dimension to enhance and support the construction, evaluation and risk management of global equity portfolios. Also, the MSCI Economic Exposure Indices, which reflect the performance of companies with significant economic exposure to specific
regions or countries, may be relevant benchmarks for investors that face direct investment restrictions in certain markets or wish to increase their indirect allocations to targeted markets.



•MSCI Custom Indices. In recent years we have significantly expanded our capabilities for calculating custom indices. We currently calculate
approximately 5,900 custom indices, which apply a client’s customization criteria to an existing MSCI index. Examples of customization criteria include currency, hedging, stock exclusions or special weighting. Custom indices can reflect
specific investment criteria, such as socially responsible investment requirements or regulatory constraints; they can be used for back-testing strategies or developing specialized investment products, minimizing portfolio tracking error and
constructing index-linked products.



•MSCI ESG Indices. The MSCI ESG Indices allow clients to effectively benchmark ESG investment performance and manage, measure and report on their
compliance with ESG mandates, as well as to issue index-based ESG investment products. The MSCI ESG Indices include Best-in-Class Indices that integrate sustainability analysis into the investment process, Socially Responsible Indices that take into
account certain values, norms or ethical standards, Environmental Indices that focus on alternative energy or clean technology and Custom Indices based on unique client ESG requirements.



•Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS®). GICS was developed and is maintained jointly by MSCI and Standard & Poor’s
Financial Services, LLC, a subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“Standard & Poor’s”). This classification system was designed to respond to our clients’ needs for a comprehensive, consistent and accurate
framework for classifying companies into industries. GICS is widely accepted as an industry analysis framework for investment research, portfolio management and asset allocation. Our equity index products classify constituent securities according to
GICS.

We also offer GICS Direct, a joint product of MSCI and Standards & Poor’s. GICS Direct
is a database of approximately 43,000 active companies and approximately 50,000 securities classified by sector, industry group, industry and sub-industry in accordance with proprietary GICS methodology.







Our primary ESG and IPD products are:



•MSCI ESG Research Products. MSCI ESG Research products and services help investors integrate ESG factors into their investment decisions.
Investors integrate ESG factors to better understand investment risk and opportunities and/or to align investment with a set of ESG values.

MSCI ESG Research products include screening and modeling tools that allow institutional investors and asset managers to: align investments with a set of ESG values such as perceptions of certain business
activities, religious views or international norms; generate buy/restricted lists of companies that meet those criteria; understand the implications of restrictions on portfolios; and examine company specific profiles. The tools also include the
ability to monitor a company’s adherence to internationally recognized norms and principles.

MSCI ESG Research products
also provide ESG ratings and analysis on thousands of companies worldwide. These sector based research reports are designed to identify and analyze key ESG issues for the sector, which may include the intersection of a corporations’ major
social and environmental impacts with its core business operations, thereby identifying potential risks and opportunities for the company and its investors.



•IPD Products.The IPD Portfolio Analysis Service (“PAS”) analyzes the strengths and weaknesses of a real estate portfolio’s
performance relative to its benchmark. We also offer income, management, fund level and cost benchmarking services. IPD market publications provide key real estate market analysis on countries, regions and sectors.

Risk Management Analytics Products

Our risk management analytics products offer a consistent risk assessment framework for managing and monitoring investments in a variety of asset classes across an organization. The products are based on
our proprietary integrated fundamental multi-factor risk models, value-at-risk (“VaR”) methodologies and asset valuation models. They enable clients to identify, monitor, report and manage potential market risks from equities, fixed
income, derivatives contracts and alternative investments, and to analyze portfolios and systematically analyze risk and return across multiple asset classes, including equities, bonds, commodities, foreign exchange, futures, options, derivatives,
structured products, interest-rate products and credit products. Using these tools, clients can identify the drivers of market and credit risk across their investments, produce daily risk reports, run pre-trade analysis, perform what-if stress-tests
and simulation analysis and optimizations, evaluate and monitor multiple asset managers and investment teams and assess correlations across a group of selected assets or portfolios.

We offer the following products in this area:



•BarraOne. BarraOne, powered by the Barra Integrated Model (“BIM”), provides clients with global, multi-asset class risk analysis using
Barra’s fundamental factor methodology. BarraOne also includes VaR simulation, stress testing, optimization and performance attribution modules that enable clients to manage multi-asset class portfolios, carry out risk allocation budgeting,
manager monitoring, performance attribution and regulatory risk reporting. The product is accessed by clients via a secure, interactive web-based session, web services or on an outsourced basis.



•RiskManager. RiskManager is an industry leader in VaR simulation and stress testing. Clients use RiskManager for daily analyzing, measuring and
monitoring of market risk at fund and firm level, for sensitivity and stress testing, and for interactive what-if analysis. RiskManager is a highly scalable platform accessed by clients via a license to a secure, interactive web-based application
service, as an outsourced risk reporting service or as a web service in which a client’s systems access RiskMetrics core risk elements by connecting directly to our systems.



•Hedge Fund Risk Transparency Solutions. HedgePlatform, a reporting service, and InterSight, an interactive web-based reporting service, allow
clients that invest in hedge funds, including funds of funds, pension funds and endowments, to measure, evaluate and monitor the risk of their hedge fund investments across multiple hedge fund strategies. We collect position-level information from
hedge funds on a monthly basis and provide our clients with a risk report for each individual hedge fund in which they invest as well as an aggregate risk report for their overall portfolio of hedge funds. Our clients who use RiskManager to measure
the risk of their own holdings can further integrate the positions collected via our HedgePlatform and InterSight services to allow computation of risk across their entire portfolio, while the confidential and proprietary nature of the underlying
hedge fund holdings is maintained. HedgePlatform and InterSight reports include statistics such as exposure (long, short, net and gross), sensitivities, scenario analysis, stress tests and VaR analysis.



•DataMetrics.DataMetrics is a data service that allows clients to access the market data embedded in RiskManager for use in their own
proprietary or other third-party systems. In addition to direct access to market data, DataMetrics can provide clients with customized data processing services.







•WealthBench.WealthBench is an investment planning platform for private banks, financial advisors, brokerages and trust companies. WealthBench
assists users in delivering informed, tailored investment planning proposals for high net worth individuals reflecting their needs, goals and risk tolerances while remaining consistent with firm-driven investment and risk-based policies. WealthBench
incorporates robust analytics, market-consistent inputs and transparent methodologies.



•CreditManager. Our CreditManager product is a portfolio credit risk management system used primarily by banks to calculate economic capital,
facilitate risk-based pricing and measure credit risk concentrations. The application is designed to consolidate and compare risks and opportunities across multiple credit exposures including bonds, credit derivatives and traditional lending.

Portfolio Management Analytics Products

Our Barra-branded equity portfolio management analytics products are designed to assist investment professionals in analyzing and managing
risks and returns for equities at both the asset and portfolio level in developed, emerging and frontier equity markets. Barra equity models identify and analyze the factors that influence equity asset returns and risk. Our most widely used Barra
equity products utilize our fundamental multi-factor equity risk model data to help our clients construct, analyze, optimize and manage portfolios. Our multi-factor models identify common factors that influence stock price movements, such as
industry and style characteristics, based on market and fundamental data. The proprietary risk data available in our products identifies an asset’s or a portfolio’s sensitivities to these common factors.

Our global equity models include the following:



•Barra Global Equity Model (“GEM3”). GEM3 is a multi-factor risk model designed for use in global equity portfolio management and
construction. It uses a set of factors that explain the sources of global equity risk and returns.



•Barra Integrated Model (“BIM”).BIM provides a detailed view of risk across markets and asset classes, including currencies, equities,
fixed income assets, commodities, mutual fund assets and hedge fund assets. It begins by identifying the factors that affect the returns of many asset classes, including equity and fixed income securities and currencies. These factors are then
combined into a single global model that can forecast the risk of multi-asset class, global portfolios.

Our
single country and regional risk models include the following:



•Barra Single Country Equity Models.Our single country equity models identify a set of factors to explain sources of risk and return of
portfolios in that country. Examples include the Barra US Equity Model (“USE4”) which models risk for U.S. equity assets and portfolios and the Barra UK Equity Model (“UKE7”) which models risk for United Kingdom equity assets and
portfolios.



•Barra Regional Equity Models. We produce two regional equity models, the Europe Equity Model (“EUE3”) and the Asia-Pacific Equity
Model (“ASE1”). These models are designed to be used across a broad range of applications and are available in different versions to reflect local and regional commonalities, as well as short-term and long-term investment horizons.

When assigning investment mandates to asset managers, institutional asset owners often prescribe investment
restrictions for portfolio risk and tracking error that are measured, reported and monitored using Barra products. Our clients can use our portfolio analytics by installing our proprietary software applications and equity risk data in their
technology platforms, by accessing our software applications and risk data via the Internet, by integrating our equity risk data into their own applications or through third-party applications, like those provided by FactSet Research Systems Inc.
(“FactSet”), which have incorporated our equity risk data and analytics into their offerings.

Our primary portfolio
analytics products are:



•Barra Aegis. Barra Aegis is a sophisticated software application for equity risk management and portfolio analysis that is powered by our
proprietary equity risk data. It is deployed by the client as a desktop application. Barra Aegis is an integrated suite of equity investment analytics modules, specifically designed to help clients actively manage their equity risk against their
expected returns. It also enables clients to construct optimized portfolios based on client-specified expectations and constraints.







Barra Aegis also provides a factor-based performance attribution module which allows clients
to analyze realized returns relative to risk factors by sectors, styles, currencies and regions. Barra Aegis’s tools also help clients identify returns attributable to stock selection skills. Additionally, using Barra Aegis’s advanced
automation tools, clients can back-test their portfolio construction strategies over time.



•Barra Portfolio Manager. Barra Portfolio Manager is an integrated risk and performance platform that is designed to help fund managers and their
teams gain additional portfolio insight, manage a more systematic investment process and make faster, more informed investment decisions. The hosted interactive user interface allows users to analyze risk and return, conduct pre-trade what-if
analysis across a number of scenarios and construct portfolios using Barra Optimizer. The platform supports optional data management services that allow users to outsource the loading and reconciliation of their portfolio and other proprietary
data.



•Barra Equity Models Direct. Barra Equity Models Direct delivers our proprietary risk data to clients for integration into their own software
applications. The proprietary risk data in Barra Equity Models Direct is also available via third-party providers. We offer the proprietary risk data from global, regional and single country Barra risk models and most of these models are available
in short-term and long-term time horizons so that clients can select the risk data that best suits their investment processes.

Energy and Commodity Analytics Products

Our Energy and Commodity
Analytics products are software applications that offer a variety of quantitative analytics tools for valuing, modeling and facilitating the hedging of physical assets and derivatives across a number of market segments including energy and commodity
assets. These products are used by investors, traders and those hedging investments in these asset classes. The software applications are not provided with any market data or proprietary index or risk data. These products are typically branded
“FEA” and include products such as FEA@Energy, FEA VaRworks and FEA StructureTool.

Governance Segment

Our Governance business is a leading provider of corporate governance products and services and financial research and
analysis services to institutional investors and corporations around the world. We categorize our Governance business into three distinct categories: (i) Proxy Research and Voting, Global Proxy Distribution (“GPD”) and Securities
Class Action Services (“SCAS”), (ii) ISS Corporate Services and (iii) Financial Research and Analysis (“FR&A”). The pricing model for our Governance business’ products and services is primarily
subscription-based and varies depending on the product or service purchased.

Proxy Research and Voting, GPD and SCAS

Our Proxy Research and Voting, GPD and SCAS products are designed to provide proxy services, including proxy voting
and in-depth research and analysis to help inform voting decisions and assess issuer-specific risk, to institutional investors globally. ISS is the largest proxy advisory firm that offers a fully-integrated, end-to-end proxy voting service,
including policy creation, comprehensive research, vote recommendations, vote execution and reporting and analytical tools. During fiscal year 2012, Proxy Research and Voting, GPD and SCAS accounted for approximately 67.0% of revenues attributable
to our Governance business.

Our primary product categories are:



•Proxy Research and Voting. Through its ProxyExchange platform, ISS provides clients with vote recommendations, comprehensive analyses and online
voting capabilities that enable users to make informed decisions about how to vote on all items with respect to each shareholder meeting agenda related to their portfolio holdings, execute their votes and monitor and track their votes for reporting
purposes.

Research coverage is currently provided on approximately 5,900 U.S.-based companies and over
35,000 non-U.S. companies. ISS’s research and recommendations are based on benchmark, specialized and client-specific custom policies. ISS’s benchmark policies are designed to serve as an industry standard and best practice guide to
corporate governance and are developed with the input of institutional clients and industry professionals around the world. In addition to our benchmark policies, we recognize that the philosophies and policies used to make proxy voting decisions
range widely among different types of investors. By understanding the diverse needs of our clients, we are able to create policies that meet their requirements through a number of specialized policies such as SRI policies based on environmentally
and socially responsible guidelines and ISS’s Taft-Hartley policy which is based on guidelines of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations. For many institutional investors with highly specialized or unique
needs for proxy research and policy guidelines, we frequently provide







custom proxy advisory services in which we work with our clients to develop and refine governance policy guidelines that match their particular views and are unique to them. Additionally,
ISS’s M&A Edge research service provides independent, in-depth research analysis that focuses specifically on proposed merger and acquisition deals and proxy contests to inform institutional investors. It also delivers ongoing deal notes
that keep users abreast of key events as the deal or contest evolves and analyzes key aspects of a transaction, including strategic rationale, corporate governance and shareholder rights issues.

ISS’s proxy voting services include notifying clients of upcoming shareholder meetings, receiving proxy ballots from third-party
proxy distributors, generating consolidated proxy ballots and vote instructions across its clients’ portfolios, executing its clients’ votes in accordance with their instructions, maintaining voting records and providing comprehensive vote
reporting.



•Global Proxy Distribution Services (“GPD”). Our GPD service offers a complete global proxy distribution solution to custodian
banks for non-U.S. securities through a single independent platform. GPD provides for the efficient distribution and voting of proxies giving clients the ability to review and download detailed meeting information and individualized account
information. GPD also provides online access to customized record-keeping and reporting across all custodians and sub-custodians.



•Securities Class Action Services (“SCAS”). We deliver a complete class action monitoring and claims filing service to institutional
investors who have potential recovery rights in securities class action lawsuits. We provide an extensive securities litigation database, including historical and current case information, and provide fully-outsourced notification, tracking and
claims filing services to our institutional clients. Our relationships with claims administrators and law firms around the world enable us to inform clients of new developments in global markets and streamline the filing process.

SCAS offers more detailed portfolio specific views of cases and settlements with an online database that
allows clients to keep track of the complete securities class action lifecycle, from when a case is first identified until payment is disbursed. Securities class action data provided to our clients through our RecoverMax platform include class
periods, settlement dates, status reports, award amounts, claim deadline dates, claims administrator details and pertinent related data.

ISS Corporate Services

Our ISS Corporate Services products and
services are designed to help clients reduce risk and build shareholder value through strong governance programs by leveraging our expertise in the areas of executive compensation, governance-related risk identification, capital structure, voting
trends and corporate governance research. ISS Corporate Services tools, data and advisory services help clients to design, manage and measure their corporate governance programs. During fiscal year 2012, revenues related to our ISS Corporate
Services products and services represented approximately 25.1% of our Governance business total revenues.

Our primary ISS
Corporate Services products and services include:



•Compensation Data and Analytics. We provide a set of turnkey products and services that enable compensation professionals and board committee
members to optimize compensation plan design by modeling, analyzing and benchmarking executive compensation and equity plans. Our ExecComp Analytics product provides historical data, benchmarking and analytics on executive compensation and pay for
performance. Compass is a web-based tool enabling clients to model the cost of equity compensation plans and determine optimal equity plan design. Our flagship product is the ExecComp Suite, which includes our ExecComp Analytics product
and ongoing benchmarking of equity plan value transfer, burn rates, and dilution. It also provides access to experienced and dedicated compensation plan analysts and support in modeling the cost of equity compensation plans and determining optimal
compensation plan design.



•Governance Suite. The Governance Suite provides a high-quality online discussion forum to facilitate constructive dialogue on corporate
governance issues among those involved in corporate governance, including institutional investors, board directors and corporate executives. Members of Governance Exchange also have access to a diverse range of corporate governance viewpoints and
research through webcasts, white papers, surveys, and expert analysis.



•Proxy Research and Publications. Proxy Research and Publications offers a searchable database of publications, research articles and online
reports designed to help corporate secretaries, investor relations professionals, executives, directors and other professionals access ISS research reports and other corporate-governance related information. Through an alerts service, users of Proxy
Research and Publications also receive the latest proxy research reports released for their company or







for peer companies, and can opt to be alerted when proxy research reports containing specific proposal types are released.

Financial Research and Analysis

Our FR&A products and services are designed to assess the overall financial health of companies by analyzing the investment implications of companies’ accounting policies, legal and regulatory
exposure and mergers and acquisitions initiatives. Our FR&A product and service offerings are provided primarily to portfolio managers for investment analysis, to corporations to monitor compliance with corporate governance practices and to
professional services organizations to support due diligence efforts. These offerings allow investors to add specialized, qualitative analysis to more traditional research used in the investment decision-making process. During fiscal year 2012,
FR&A accounted for approximately 7.9% of revenues attributable to our Governance business. All of FR&A’s products and services are marketed under the CFRA brand.

CFRA Forensic Accounting Research. Through a rigorous and proprietary research process, our global team of analysts provides in-depth research on over 520 companies worldwide while our quantitative
tools assess the reported financial results of over 14,500 companies worldwide. We focus on providing our clients with timely and actionable risk analysis reports regarding earnings and cash flow quality and sustainability, legal and regulatory risk
and overall business health. Our clients rely on our continuous analysis and objective perspective. Accounting Lens, our largest product within FR&A, is a leading forensic accounting risk research report offering for investors, providing early
warning signals for companies with aggressive accounting practices or with reported results that may indicate operational or financial distress. The reports consist of in-depth company research, educational information and industry research, access
to our proprietary earnings quality database and access to our research analysts. In addition, CFRA’s Legal Edge product is focused on identifying and analyzing hidden legal and regulatory risks within companies. CFRA also provides customized
research services for client-defined projects.

Growth Strategy

We have experienced growth in recent years with operating revenues and operating income increasing by 5.5% and 7.7%, respectively, for the
year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the year ended December 31, 2011, and by 35.9% and 56.2%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended November 30, 2010. The growth from 2010 to 2011 was
driven largely by the RiskMetrics and Measurisk acquisitions. Excluding the impact of the RiskMetrics and Measurisk acquisitions, our operating revenues and operating income increased by 13.4% and 26.7%, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended November 30, 2010.

We believe we are well-positioned for growth over
time and have a multi-faceted growth strategy that builds on our strong client relationships, products, brands and integral role in the investment and governance process. Set forth below are the principal elements of our strategy to grow our Company
and meet the increasing needs of our clients for investment decision support tools:



•Client Growth. We believe there are opportunities to increase the number of users and locations and the number of products we license to
existing client organizations, and to obtain new clients in both existing and new geographic markets and client types worldwide. We intend to:



•Expand client base in current client types.We seek to add new clients by leveraging our brand strength, our products, our broad access to the
global investment community, our global sales force and our strong knowledge of the investment and governance processes. This includes client types in which we already have a strong penetration for our flagship global equity index, risk management
analytics, portfolio analytics and governance products.



•Increase product subscriptions and users within our current client base.Many of our clients use only one or a limited number of our products,
and we believe there are opportunities to cross-sell our other investment decision support tools as we have expanded our suite of index, ESG, risk, portfolio management analytics, governance and research products. For example, we will continue to
seek opportunities to sell risk and portfolio management analytics products to our existing equity index-only clients. We believe that the growing regulatory and compliance needs of our clients provides us with additional opportunities to license
our risk analytics products. In addition, we will continue to focus on adding new users, new locations and new modules for current products with existing clients.



•Increase licensing of indices for ETFs and other exchange traded investment products. We believe that there is potential for continued growth
and expansion in the ETF market in the future, and we will continue







to pursue opportunities to increase licensing of our indices for index-linked investment products to capitalize on their growth in number and variety. The table below illustrates the growth trend
with respect to the number of primary exchange listings of ETFs linked to MSCI equity indices.

Number of
Primary Exchange Listings of ETFs Linked to MSCI Equity Indices



As ofRegionDecember 31,2012December 31,2011November 30,2010Americas186150130EMEA365348253Asia302620Total581524403

Historical values of the assets in ETFs linked to our indices are set forth in a table under the section
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Results of Operations—Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2011—Operating Revenues” below.



•Product Growth. We plan to develop new product offerings and continue to enhance our existing products through internal product development.



•Create innovative new product offerings and enhancements.In order to maintain and enhance our leadership position, we plan to introduce
innovative new products and enhancements to existing products. We believe that the integration of product platforms, development of new models, expansion of the global coverage of current models, enhanced client customization capabilities, increased
data collection and the introduction of new governance products will increase the competitiveness of our Company. For example, the addition of IPD’s database of real estate information has the potential to enhance MSCI’s risk and
performance management analytics products. We also maintain an active dialogue with our clients in order to understand their needs and anticipate market developments.



•Expand our capacity to design and produce new products. We intend to increase our spending on product development teams, new model research,
data production systems and software application design to enable us to design and produce new products more quickly and cost-effectively. Increasing our ability to process additional models and data, and design and code software applications more
effectively, will allow us to respond faster to client needs and bring new products and product enhancements to the market more quickly.



•Growth through acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek to acquire products, technologies and companies, such as IPD and InvestorForce, that
will enhance, complement or expand our product offerings and client base, as well as increase our ability to provide investment decision support tools to equity, fixed income and multi-asset class investment institutions, and the financial
intermediaries that service such institutions.

Competitive Advantages

We believe our competitive advantages include the following:



•Strong client relationships and deep understanding of their needs.Our consultative approach to product development, dedication to client
support and our range of products have helped us build strong relationships with investment institutions around the world. We believe the skills, knowledge and experience of our research, software engineering, global sales, data management and
production and product management teams enable us to develop and enhance our models, methodologies, data and software applications in accordance with client demands and needs. We consult with our clients and other market participants during the
product development and construction process to take into account their actual investment process requirements.



•Client reliance on our products. Many of our clients have come to rely on our products in their investment management processes, integrating our
products into their performance measurement and risk management processes, where they become an integral part of their daily portfolio management functions. In certain cases,







our clients are requested by their customers to report using our tools or data. Additionally, our tools can help clients comply with local regulations or client reporting requirements.
Consequently, we believe that certain of our clients may experience business disruption and additional costs if they choose to cease using or replace our products.



•Strong brand recognition. Our Global Equity Indices and ESG products and services are marketed under the MSCI and MSCI ESG brands; our portfolio
risk and performance analytics covering global equity and fixed income are marketed under the Barra brand; our multi-asset class, market and credit risk analytics are marketed under the RiskMetrics and Barra brands, respectively; our energy and
commodity asset valuation analytics are marketed under the FEA brand; our private real estate benchmarks are marketed under the IPD brand; and our corporate governance products and services are marketed under the ISS brand. These brands are
well-established and recognized throughout the investment community worldwide. Our brand strength reflects the longstanding quality and widespread use of our products. We believe our products are well-positioned to be the tools of choice for
investment institutions increasingly looking to third-party products and services for help with benchmarking, index-linked product creation and portfolio risk management and for corporate clients for help with governance practices.



•Global products and operations. Our products cover most major investment markets throughout the world. For example, our MSCI Global Equity
Indices provide exhaustive equity market coverage for over 75 countries in our developed, emerging and frontier market categories; and we produced equity risk data for single country models, regional equity models and an integrated multi-asset class
risk model covering equity markets and fixed income markets. As of December 31, 2012, our clients were located in 83 countries and many of them have a presence in multiple locations around the world. As of December 31, 2012, our employees
were located in 22 countries in order to maintain close contact with our clients and the international markets we follow and to maintain an appropriate cost structure. We believe our global presence and focus allow us to serve our clients well and
capitalize on a great number of business opportunities in many countries and regions of the world.



•Sophisticated models with practical application. We have invested significant time and resources for more than three decades in developing
highly sophisticated and practical index methodologies and risk models that combine financial theory and investment practice. We enhance our existing models to reflect the evolution of markets and to incorporate methodological advances in risk
forecasting. New models and major enhancements to existing models are reviewed by our model review committee.



•Open architecture and transparency. We have an open architecture philosophy. Clients can access our data through our software applications,
third-party applications or their own applications. We also recognize that the marketplace is complex and that a competitor in one context may be a supplier or distributor in another context. For example, Standard & Poor’s competes
with us in index products, supplies index data that we distribute in our portfolio analytics software products and jointly developed and maintains GICS and GICS Direct with us. In order to provide transparency, we document and disclose many
details of our models and methodologies to our clients so that they can better understand and utilize the tools we offer. We believe this open architecture approach benefits us and our clients.



•Scalable application platforms. We continue to make significant investments in our data centers and software services to provide highly scalable
solutions for the processing of large volumes of assets/portfolios. In doing so, we are able to offer clients computing capacity that they would otherwise not be able to economically access through internal development.



•Highly skilled employees. Our workforce is highly skilled, technical and, in some instances, specialized. In particular, our research and
software application development departments include experts in advanced mathematics, statistics, finance, portfolio investment and software engineering, who combine strong academic credentials with market experience. Our employees’ experience
and knowledge gives us access to, and allows us to add value at, the highest levels of our clients’ organizations.



•Extensive historical databases. We have accumulated extensive databases of historical global market data, proprietary equity index data, private
real estate benchmark data, risk data and governance data. We believe our substantial and valuable databases of proprietary index and risk data, including over 40 years of certain index data history, nearly 40 years of certain risk data history and
over 15 years of certain historical governance data, would be difficult and costly for another party to replicate. The information is not available from any single source and would require intensive data checking and quality assurance testing that
we have performed over our many years of accumulating this data. Historical data is a critical component of our clients’ investment processes, allowing them to research and back-test investment strategies and analyze portfolios over many
investment and business cycles and under a variety of historical situations and market environments.







Clients

For the year ended December 31, 2012, we served approximately 7,500 clients across 83 countries worldwide with 54.5% of revenue from our client base in the Americas, 32.4% in EMEA and 13.1% in Asia
and Australia. Our clients include asset owners such as pension funds, endowments, foundations, central banks, family offices and insurance companies; institutional and retail asset managers, such as managers of pension assets, mutual funds, ETFs,
real estate, hedge funds and private wealth; and financial intermediaries such as banks, broker-dealers, exchanges, custodians and investment consultants. To calculate the number of clients, we may count certain affiliates and business units within
a single organization as separate clients. For example, the asset management and broker-dealer units of a diversified financial services firm may be treated as separate clients, even though the financial services firm is the only party to
the applicable subscriptions or licenses.

Our Aggregate Retention Rates were 89.7% and 89.8% for the years ended
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Our Core Retention Rates were 90.4% and 90.2% for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For a description of the calculation of our Aggregate and Core
Retention Rates, see “Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Financial Metrics and Drivers—Retention Rate.”

Revenues from our ten largest clients contributed a total of 25.0%, 25.8% and 27.4% of our total revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011, and November 30, 2010, respectively.

In the years ended December 31, 2012 and
2011, and November 30, 2010, our largest client organization by revenue, BlackRock, Inc. and its affiliates (“BlackRock”), accounted for 7.6%, 8.1% and 9.9% of our operating revenues, respectively. For the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011, and November 30, 2010, approximately 81.7%, 83.9% and 82.9% of our revenues from BlackRock were attributable to fees based on the assets of ETFs linked to MSCI equity indices, including its iShares ETF business.

Marketing

We market our products to investment institutions, financial service providers, financial advisors and corporations worldwide. See
“—Clients” above. Our research and product management teams seek to understand our clients’ investment and governance processes and their needs and to design tools that help clients effectively and efficiently address them.
Because of the sophisticated nature of our products, our main means of marketing is through face-to-face meetings, hosted events, targeted campaigns and 24-hour client support, as described in “—Sales and Client Support” below. These
marketing and support efforts are supplemented by our website, our email newsletters, our client events, our participation in industry conferences, our ongoing product consultations and research papers, and our public relations efforts.

Members of our research team and other employees regularly speak at industry conferences, as well as at our own seminars. For example, we
hosted approximately 260 seminars, webinars, conferences and workshops in various locations across the globe in fiscal 2012. These seminars, webinars, conferences and workshops bring our staff and our clients together, expose those clients to our
latest research and product enhancements and give our staff an opportunity to gain insight into our clients’ needs. Our marketing communications professionals also arrange interviews for our sales people and governance experts in prominent
industry journals and issue press releases on product developments and releases. We also communicate directly with both clients and prospective clients through our email newsletters which deliver research, company news and product specific news to
approximately 80,000 recipients. Our strategic marketing department collaborates with our product specialists to analyze our clients’ use of our products and to analyze the competitive landscape for our products.

Sales and Client Support

As of December 31, 2012, our client coverage offices included nearly 240 sales people and over 250 client support people worldwide.
Of these, over 100 were located in our New York offices and over 70 were located in our London office. In the last few years we have expanded our sales efforts to grow our revenues and our client service efforts to ensure client satisfaction
and develop client loyalty. In the past few years, we have expanded our geographic presence by opening client coverage offices in Budapest, Dubai, Mumbai, Seoul, Shanghai, Monterrey, Mexico, Boston and Chicago. In fiscal year 2012, we also
increased the number of client coverage and sales people in Monterrey, Mumbai and Shanghai. We have also created more specialized sales and client support teams to increase our impact in each client segment, namely hedge funds, asset owners and
broker dealers. Our sales and client support staff are based in 27 offices around the world enabling us to provide valuable face-to-face client service and focus efforts on developing new clients in more locations.







The sophisticated nature of our products and their uses demands a sales and client support
staff with strong academic and financial backgrounds. Most new sales require several face-to-face meetings with the prospective client and the sales process for large and complex sales is likely to involve a team from sales, client support,
product management and research. For Barra and RiskMetrics-branded products, sales and client support personnel are available to onboard new clients and new users, which includes, providing intensive on-site training in the use of the models,
data and software applications underlying each product. Client support also provides ongoing support, which may include on-site visits, telephone and e-mail support 24 hours, five days a week and routine client support needed in connection with the
use of the product or how it can help investors improve their process, all of which are included in the recurring subscription fee. We believe that the size, quality, knowledge and experience of our sales and client support staff, as well as
their proximity to clients, differentiate us from our competitors.

Product Development and Production

We take a coordinated team approach to product development and production. Our product management, research, data operations and
technology and software engineering departments are at the center of this process. Despite the challenging market environment, we remained committed to our product development and production efforts and, in some cases, increased these efforts.

Utilizing a deep understanding of the investment process worldwide, our research department develops, reviews and enhances
our various methodologies and models. Our global data operations and technology team designs and manages our processes and systems for market data procurement, proprietary data production and quality control. Our software engineering team builds our
sophisticated software applications. As part of our product development process, we also commonly undertake extensive consultations with our clients and other market participants to understand their specific needs and investment process
requirements. Our product management team facilitates this collaborative product development and production approach.





•



Research.

Within the governance research department, ISS’s policy board works to ensure ISS’s voting
policies are developed and applied within a framework of corporate governance best practices. Each year, through an annual policy survey of our institutional clients and other industry constituents, institutional investors are invited to share their
perspectives on corporate governance issues, including board structure, executive compensation, mergers and acquisitions and corporate accountability to ensure that our standard voting policies are aligned with the views of our institutional
clients.



•Data Operations and Technology.Our data operations and technology team consists of a combination of information technology and operations
specialists. We licensed a large volume and variety of market data for every major market in the world, including fundamental and return data, from more than 200 third party sources in fiscal year 2012. We apply our models and methodologies to this
market data to produce our proprietary risk and equity index data. Our data operations and technology team oversees this complex process. Our experienced information technology staff builds proprietary software and databases that house all of the
data we license or produce in order for our data operations teams to perform data quality checks and run our data production systems. This data factory produces our proprietary index data such as end of day and real time equity indices, and our
proprietary risk data such as daily and monthly equity risk forecasts. We have data operations and technology offices in North America, Europe and Asia.







•Software Engineering.Certain of our proprietary risk data are made available to clients through our proprietary software applications, such as
Barra Aegis, BarraOne, RiskManager, HedgePlatform, WealthBench, Credit Manager, ESG Manager and Proxy Exchange. Our software engineering team consists of individuals with significant experience in both the finance and software industries. Our staff
has an extensive skill set, including expertise in both the Java-based technologies used in our web-based, on-demand software application tool for multi-asset class risk analysis and reporting and Microsoft-based technologies used in our desktop
equity and fixed income analytics software products. We also have extensive experience with database technologies, computational programming techniques, scalability and performance analysis and tuning and quality assurance. We use a customized
software development methodology that leverages best practices from the software industry, including agile programming, test-driven development, parallel tracking, iterative cycles, prototyping and beta releases. We build our software applications
by compiling multiple components, which enables us to reuse designs and codes in multiple products. Our software development projects involve extensive collaboration with our product management team and directly with clients. We have software
engineering offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.

Our Competition

Many industry participants compete directly with us by offering one or more similar products. Our principal competitors on a global basis
for our MSCI Global Equity Index products are FTSE International, Ltd (a subsidiary of The London Stock Exchange), Russell Investment Group (a unit of Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Group) and Standard & Poor’s. Additionally, we
compete with equity index providers whose primary strength is in a local market or region. These include S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC (a joint venture company owned 24.4% by CME Group through its affiliates, 2.6% indirectly by Dow Jones &
Company, Inc. and 73.0% by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.), Russell Investment Group and Standard & Poor’s in the U.S.; S&P/TSX index published by S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC in Canada, the CAC index published by NYSE
Euronext, the DAX and STOXX Ltd. in Europe; the Bovespa Index in Brazil; the Korea Stock Exchange Kospi Index in Korea; China Securities Index Co., Ltd. in China; the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong; a strategic partnership between CME Group and
Singapore Exchange Limited in Singapore; and Nikkei Inc., Nomura Securities, Ltd., Russell Investment Group, and Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. in Japan. There are also many smaller companies that create custom indices primarily for use as the basis of
ETFs.

The principal competitors for our portfolio analytics products are Applied Portfolio Technologies (a unit of SunGard),
Axioma, Inc., Bloomberg Finance L.P., Capital IQ’s ClariFI, (a Standard & Poor’s business), FactSet, Northfield Information Services, Inc. and Wilshire Analytics.

Our risk management analytics products compete with firms such as Algorithmics (a unit of IBM), Barclays Capital, BlackRock Solutions (a
unit of BlackRock), FactSet, Imagine Software, KMV (a unit of Moody’s Corporation) and SunGard Data Systems Inc. Additionally, many of the larger broker-dealers have developed proprietary risk management analytics tools for their clients.
Similarly, many investment institutions, particularly the larger global organizations, have developed their own internal risk management analytics tools.

ISS competes with firms such as Broadridge Financial Solutions, Equilar, Inc. and Glass, Lewis & Co. ISS also competes with local niche proxy voting and research providers in certain
international markets.

For our other products where our revenues are less significant, we also have a variety of other
competitors.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, our number of employees increased by 330 to 2,759 from 2,429 on December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 40.6% of our employees were located in
emerging market centers.

Government Regulation

ISS is a registered investment adviser and must comply with the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and related SEC regulations. Such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure
obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. A subsidiary of ISS in Australia is also registered as an investment adviser with the Australian Financial Services Authority and must
comply with its applicable requirements. MSCI is registered with the State Council Information Office of the Ministry of Commerce and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce in China as a foreign institution supplying financial
information services in China.







Available Information

Our corporate headquarters are located at 7 World Trade Center, 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, 10007, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. We maintain an Investor Relations website
on the Internet atwww.msci.com. The contents of our website are not a part of or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100
F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements
and other information that we file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge, on or through this website, these reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable
following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these, click on the “SEC Filings” link found on our Investor Relations homepage.

