Item 1.Business

Overview

We are a leading global provider of investment decision support tools, including indices and
portfolio risk and performance analytics for use by institutions in managing equity, fixed income and multi-asset class portfolios. Our flagship products are our global equity indices marketed under the MSCI brand and our equity portfolio analytics
marketed under the Barra brand. Our products are used in many areas of the investment process, including portfolio construction and optimization, performance benchmarking and attribution, risk management and analysis, index-linked investment product
creation, asset allocation, investment manager selection and investment research.

Our clients include asset owners such as
pension funds, endowments, foundations, central banks and insurance companies; institutional and retail asset managers, such as managers of pension assets, mutual funds, exchange traded funds (“ETFs”), hedge funds and private wealth; and
financial intermediaries such as broker-dealers, exchanges, custodians and investment consultants. As of November 30, 2009, we had over 3,100 clients across 67 countries. We had 21 offices in 15 countries to help serve our diverse client base,
with approximately 51.4% of our revenue from clients in the Americas, 31.6% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), 9.4% in Japan and 7.6% in Asia-Pacific (not including Japan), based on the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009
revenues.

Our principal sales model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at specified
locations by a given number of users for an annual fee paid up front. The substantial majority of our revenues come from these annual, recurring subscriptions. Over time, as their needs evolve, our clients often add product modules, users and
locations to their subscriptions, which results in an increase in our revenues per client. Additionally, a significant source of our revenues comes from clients who use our indices as the basis for index-linked investment products such as ETFs. We
also derive revenues from certain institutional clients that use our indices as the basis for passively managed funds and separate accounts. These clients commonly pay us a license fee for the use of our intellectual property based on the investment
product’s assets. We also generate a limited amount of our revenues from certain exchanges that use our indices as the basis for futures and options contracts and pay us a license fee for the use of our intellectual property based on their
volume of trades.




History and Development of Our Company

MSCI Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1998 and until we became a public company in November 2007 our only two shareholders were Morgan
Stanley and Capital Group International, Inc. (“Capital Group International”). In June 2004, we acquired Barra, Inc. (“Barra”).

We were a pioneer in developing the market for international equity index products and equity portfolio risk analytics tools. MSCI introduced its first equity index products in 1969 and Barra launched its
first equity risk analytics products in 1975. Over the course of more than 35 years, our research organization has accumulated an in-depth understanding of the investment process worldwide. Based on this wealth of knowledge, we have created and
continue to develop, enhance and refine sophisticated index construction methodologies and risk models to meet the growing, complex and diverse needs of our clients’ investment processes. Our models and methodologies are the intellectual
foundation of our business and include the innovative algorithms, formulas and analytical and quantitative techniques that we use, together with market data, to produce our products. Our long history has allowed us to build extensive databases of
proprietary index and risk data, as well as accumulate valuable historical market data, which we believe would be difficult to replicate and which provide us with a substantial competitive advantage.

In November 2007, we completed an initial public offering (“IPO”) of approximately 16.1 million shares of our class A common
stock. In connection with the IPO, we reclassified our outstanding common stock into shares of class A common stock and class B common stock and immediately following the IPO, Morgan Stanley held approximately 81.0 million shares of our class B
common stock and Capital Group International held approximately 2.9 million shares of our class B common stock. Under the terms of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, when shares of class B common stock convert into shares of
class A common stock, they do so on a one-to-one basis.

In May 2008, Morgan Stanley converted approximately
28.0 million shares of our class B common stock into class A common stock by selling such shares in a registered secondary equity offering. Capital Group International converted approximately 2.9 million shares of our class B common stock,
representing all of its equity interest in us, into shares of our class A common stock and transferred them to its affiliate The Capital Group Companies Charitable Foundation, which then sold all of these shares pursuant to the same registered
secondary equity offering.

In July 2008, Morgan Stanley converted approximately 25.0 million shares of our class B
common stock into shares of class A common stock by selling such shares pursuant to a registered secondary equity offering.

In May 2009, Morgan Stanley converted approximately 27.7 million shares of our class B common stock, representing the remainder of its equity interest in us, into shares of our class A common stock by selling such shares pursuant to a
registered secondary offering. Although we began the transition to an independent, stand-alone public company at the time of our IPO in November 2007, we became an independent, stand-alone public company in connection with the May 2009 secondary
offering.

In November 2009, we issued approximately 3.8 million shares of our class A common stock pursuant to a
registered offering completed in conjunction with our inclusion in the S&P MidCap 400 Index.

As we have grown, we have
increased our operations outside of the United States. In the last few years, we opened offices in Budapest, Dubai, Monterrey, Mumbai and Shanghai.

Our Products and Services

Our primary products consist of equity indices, equity portfolio analytics and
multi-asset class portfolio analytics. We also have product offerings in the areas of energy and commodity asset valuation analytics and fixed income portfolio analytics. Our products are generally comprised of proprietary index data or proprietary







risk data and/or sophisticated software applications. Our index and risk data are created by applying our models and methodologies to market data. For example, we input closing stock prices and
other market data into our index methodologies to calculate our index data, and we input fundamental data and other market data into our risk models to produce our risk forecasts for individual securities and portfolios of securities. Our clients
can use our data together with our proprietary software applications, third-party applications or their own applications in their investment processes. Our software applications offer our clients sophisticated portfolio analytics to perform in-depth
analysis of their portfolios, using our risk data, the client’s portfolio data and fundamental and market data. Our products are marketed under three leading brands. Our index products are typically branded “MSCI.” Our portfolio
analytics products are typically branded “Barra.” Our energy and commodity asset valuation analytics products are typically branded “FEA.”

Equity Index Products

Our MSCI-branded equity index products are
designed to measure returns available to investors across a wide variety of markets (e.g., Europe, Japan or emerging markets), sizes (e.g., small capitalization or large capitalization), styles (e.g., growth or value) and
industries (e.g., banks or media). As of November 30, 2009, we calculated over 120,000 equity indices daily.

Approximately 2,400 clients worldwide subscribed to our equity index products for use in their investment portfolios and for market performance measurement and analysis in the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009. In addition to
delivering our products directly to our clients, as of November 30, 2009, we also had more than 65 third-party financial information and analytics software providers who distribute our various equity index products worldwide. The performance of
our equity indices is also frequently referenced when selecting investment managers, assigning return benchmarks in mandates, comparing performance and providing market and academic commentary. The performance of certain of our indices is reported
on a daily basis in the financial media.

Our primary equity index products are:



•MSCI Global Equity Indices

The MSCI Global Equity Indices are our flagship index products. They are designed to measure returns available to international investors across a variety of public equity markets. As of November 30,
2009, our Global Equity Indices included 75 developed, emerging and frontier market countries, as well as various regional and composite indices built from the component country indices, including the well-known MSCI EAFE (Europe, Australasia, and
Far East), MSCI World, MSCI ACWI IMI (All Country World Investable Market Index) and MSCI Emerging Markets Indices. In addition, the Global Equity Indices include industry indices, value and growth style indices and large-, mid- and
small-capitalization size segment indices.

The MSCI Global Equity Indices are the most widely used benchmarks
for cross border equity funds. We continue to enhance and expand this successful product offering. Recently, we have been awarded various mandates for the use of our broadest index, MSCI ACWI IMI, as the policy benchmark for the equities portion of
large pension plans. We have also recently introduced innovative indices, such as the MSCI Frontier Market Indices, the MSCI Factor Indices and the MSCI Global Minimum Volatility Indices.



•MSCI Domestic Equity Indices

The MSCI Domestic Equity Indices are designed to measure the returns available to domestic investors in the U.S. and China public equity markets. Each of these domestic country index series includes value
and growth style indices, and in the case of the U.S. large-, mid-, small- and micro-capitalization size segment indices.







•Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)

The Global Industry Classification Standard was developed and is maintained jointly by us and Standard &
Poor’s. We designed this classification system to respond to our clients’ needs for a consistent, accurate and complete framework for classifying companies into industries. The GICS has been widely accepted as an industry analysis
framework for investment research, portfolio management and asset allocation. Our equity index products classify constituent securities according to the GICS.

We also offer GICS Direct, a joint product of MSCI and Standard & Poor’s. GICS Direct is a database of more
than 38,000 active companies and 42,000 securities classified by sector, industry group, industry and sub-industry in accordance with the proprietary GICS methodology.

Equity Portfolio Analytics Products

Our Barra-branded equity
portfolio analytics products are designed to assist investment professionals in analyzing and managing risks and returns for equities at both the asset and portfolio level in major equity markets worldwide. Barra equity risk models identify and
analyze the factors that influence equity asset returns and risk. Our most widely used Barra equity products utilize our fundamental multi-factor equity risk model data to help our clients construct, analyze, optimize and manage equity portfolios.
Our multi-factor risk models identify common factors that influence stock price movements, such as industry and style characteristics, based on market and fundamental data. The proprietary risk data available in our products identifies an
asset’s or a portfolio’s sensitivities to these common factors. Risk not attributable to the common factors is risk unique to the asset.

Asset owners often request Barra risk model measurements for portfolio risk and tracking error when selecting investment managers, prescribing investment restrictions and assigning investment mandates.
Our clients can use our equity portfolio analytics by installing our proprietary software applications and equity risk data in their technology platforms, by accessing our software applications and risk data via the Internet, by integrating our
equity risk data into their own applications or third-party applications, like FactSet Research Systems Inc., that have incorporated our equity risk data and analytics into their offerings.

Our primary equity portfolio analytics products are:



•The Barra Aegis System

Barra Aegis is our flagship equity risk management and analytics system. It is a sophisticated software application for equity risk management and portfolio analysis that is powered by our proprietary
equity risk data. It is deployed by the client as a desktop application. Barra Aegis is an integrated suite of equity investment analytics modules, specifically designed to help clients actively manage their equity risk against their expected
returns. It also enables clients to construct optimized portfolios based on client-specified expectations and constraints.

Barra Aegis also provides a factor-based performance attribution module which allows clients to analyze realized returns relative to risk factors by sectors, styles, currencies and regions. Barra Aegis
tools also help clients identify returns attributable to stock selection skills. Additionally, using Barra Aegis’ advanced automation tools, clients can back-test their portfolio construction strategies over time.



•Equity Models Direct

Our Equity Models Direct product delivers our proprietary risk data to clients for integration into their own software applications. The proprietary risk data in Equity Models Direct is also available via
third-party providers. We offer the proprietary risk data from global, regional and single country Barra risk models and most of these models are available in short-term and long-term time horizons so that clients can select the risk data that best
suits their investment processes.







Our global risk models include the following:

Global Equity Model (“GEM2”).Our Global Equity model is an investment decision support tool designed for global equity
portfolio management and construction. GEM2 uses a set of factors that best explain the sources of global equity risk and returns.

Barra Integrated Model (“BIM”).Our integrated model provides a detailed view of risk across markets and asset classes, including currencies, fixed income assets, mutual fund assets and hedge fund assets. It begins by
identifying the factors that affect the returns of equity securities, fixed income securities and currencies in each individual country or market. These factors are then combined into a single global model that can forecast the risk of multi-asset
class, global portfolios.

Our single country and regional risk models include the following:

Single Country Equity Models.Our single country equity models identify the unique set of factors most able to explain sources of
risks and returns of portfolios in that country. Examples include our USE3 model (i.e., U.S. equity model, version 3) which models risk for U.S. equity assets and portfolios, and our UKE7 model (i.e., United Kingdom equity model, version 7) which
models risk for United Kingdom equity assets and portfolios. Data from the USE3 equity risk model is our most commonly licensed Barra risk data.

Europe Equity Model (“EUE3”). Our Europe equity model is designed to be used across a broad range of applications and is available in six different versions to reflect local and regional
commonalities, as well as short-term and long-term investment horizons. The EUE3 models cover approximately 9,400 stocks in 29 markets, including many emerging and frontier markets in Eastern Europe.

Multi-Asset Class Portfolio Analytics Products

Our multi-asset class portfolio analytics products offer a consistent risk assessment framework for managing and monitoring investments in a variety of asset classes across an organization. The products
are based on our proprietary integrated fundamental multi-factor risk models, value-at-risk methodologies and asset valuation models. They enable clients to identify, monitor, report and manage potential market risks from equities, fixed income,
derivatives contracts and alternative investments, and to analyze portfolios and systematically analyze risk and return across multiple asset classes. Using these tools, clients can identify the drivers of market risk across their investments,
produce daily risk reports, run pre-trade analysis and optimizations, evaluate and monitor multiple asset managers and investment teams and access correlations across a group of selected portfolios.

We have two major products in this area, which differ mainly in how they are delivered to clients and in certain functionality:



•The BarraOne System. Clients access BarraOne via the Internet, using their desktop browsers. This product includes modules for risk allocation
and risk budgeting, performance attribution, historical “as-of” analysis of portfolios and both historical and Monte Carlo simulation.



•The Barra TotalRisk System. Clients install TotalRisk on their own information technology infrastructure. This product includes simulation
modules that enable clients to perform historical and Monte Carlo value-at-risk calculations.

Currently, we
are actively seeking to license subscriptions only to BarraOne and related risk data for multiple asset classes. Most of the features and functionality of Barra TotalRisk have been added to BarraOne, and we are decommissioning Barra TotalRisk. We
are currently offering our remaining Barra TotalRisk clients the opportunity to transition to BarraOne.







Other Products

Our other products category consists of two types of products: (a) energy and commodity asset valuation analytics for investors, traders
and those hedging investments in these asset classes and (b) fixed income portfolio analytics products to facilitate the investment processes of fixed income investors.



•Energy and Commodity Asset Valuation Analytics Products

Our energy and commodity valuation products are software applications that offer a variety of quantitative analytics tools
for valuing, modeling and hedging physical assets and derivatives across a number of market segments including energy and commodity assets. These software applications are not provided with any market data or proprietary index or risk data. These
products are typically branded “FEA” and include products such as @Energy, VaRworks and StructureTool.



•The Barra Cosmos System for Fixed Income Portfolio Analytics

Barra Cosmos enables global fixed income portfolio managers to manage risk and optimize return in a multi-currency, global
bond portfolio. This adaptable product integrates specific bond, derivative and currency strategies to reflect each user’s investment style, while monitoring the overall risk exposure of the portfolio. Barra Cosmos is deployed by the client as
a desktop application.

Growth Strategy

We have experienced growth in recent years with operating revenues and operating income increasing by 2.8% and 11.2%, respectively, for the year ended November 30, 2009 compared to the year ended
November 30, 2008, and by 16.5% and 4.5%, respectively, for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008 compared to the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.

We believe we are well-positioned for significant growth over time and have a multi-faceted growth strategy that builds on our strong client relationships, products, brands and integral role in the
investment process. The number, diversity, size, sophistication and amount of assets held in investment institutions that own, manage and direct financial assets have grown significantly in recent years. These investment institutions increasingly
require sophisticated investment management tools such as ours to support their complex and global investment processes. Set forth below are the principal elements of our strategy to grow our Company and meet the increasing needs of these
institutions for investment decision support tools:



•Client Growth. We believe there are significant opportunities to increase the number of users and locations and the number of products we
license to existing client organizations, and to obtain new clients in both existing and new geographic markets and client types worldwide. We intend to:



•Increase product subscriptions and users within our current client base.Many of our clients use only one or a limited number of our products,
and we believe there are substantial opportunities to cross sell our other investment decision support tools. This is particularly the case with respect to our various offerings for the equity investment process. In addition, we will continue to
focus on adding new users and new locations for current products with existing clients.



•Expand client base in current client types.We plan to add new clients by leveraging our brand strength, our products, our broad access to the
global investment community and our strong knowledge of the investment process. This includes client types in which we already have a strong penetration for our flagship international equity index and equity portfolio analytics products.



•Increase licensing of indices for ETFs. We also plan to increase licensing of our indices for index-linked investment products to capitalize on
their growth in number and variety. The following table demonstrates the success we have experienced as of November 30, 2009 in licensing our equity indices as the basis of ETFs, and we believe there is potential for continued growth and
expansion in this market in the future.







Number of Primary Exchange Listings of ETFs Linked to MSCI Equity Indices



As of November 30,Region200920082007Americas937662EMEA1658555Asia1064Total268167121

The table below sets forth the assets in ETFs linked to our equity indices:

Assets in ETFs Linked to MSCI Indices



As of November 30,MSCI Equity Index200920082007(in billions)Emerging Markets$63.3$22.6$36.4EAFE39.629.651.5US Broad Market12.98.29.5Brazil12.93.98.3Europe7.94.05.3Japan7.48.013.1Subtotal144.076.3124.1Other Indices90.242.767.6Total$234.2$119.0$191.7



Source: Bloomberg & MSCI.

The value of the assets in ETFs linked to our equity indices as of the last day of the month and the monthly average balance for the
prior 12 months can be found under the link “AUM in ETFs Linked to MSCI Indices” on our website athttp://ir.msci.comat the end of the second business day following the end of the month. Information contained on our
website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report filed with the SEC.



•Expand licensing of other index-based financial products. We plan to expand the licensing of our index products into new markets such as the
U.S. listed options markets and U.S. listed futures markets by entering into licenses with exchanges, such as the agreement we entered into in May 2009 with NYSE Liffe U.S., the U.S. futures exchange of NYSE Euronext.



•Expand into client types in which we are underrepresented.We plan to expand into client types in which we do not currently have a leading
presence. In particular, we intend to focus on increasing the number of pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, hedge fund managers and endowments using our products. For example, many pension funds are familiar with us and our Global Equity Indices
because the performance of their equity asset managers is measured in relation to our indices. We believe that our equity and multi-asset class portfolio analytics products would be useful to pension funds managing their investment risk.



•Expand global presence.We have a strong presence in the U.S., Western Europe and certain parts of Asia. While we have established a presence in
selected markets within the Middle East, Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe and Latin America, there is potential for further penetration and growth in these markets. We intend to leverage our strong brands, reputation, products and existing presence to
continue to expand in these markets and gain more clients.







•Product Growth. We plan to develop new product offerings and continue to enhance our existing products through internal product development.



•Create innovative new product offerings and enhancements.In order to maintain and enhance our leadership position, we plan to introduce
innovative new products and enhancements to existing products. We maintain an active dialogue with our clients in order to understand their needs and anticipate market developments. During fiscal year 2009, launches in our index products included
the creation of the MSCI FX Hedge Indices, MSCI Factor Indices and MSCI 25/50 Indices. During fiscal year 2009, within our equity analytics product category, we launched EUE3, an enhanced version of our European equity model, and began developing an
equity analytics product that will be accessible over the internet and is intended to extend the capabilities of Aegis. Within our multi-asset class portfolio analytics product line, we introduced significant product enhancements including an
advanced Monte Carlo simulation module, performance attribution by risk factor and broad expansion of derivatives modeling in our BarraOne platform. To complement these product additions, we also launched a managed services offering, to provide
clients with outsourced asset modeling, data management and risk reporting. In fiscal year 2010, we anticipate significant further innovation with new developments in tail risk modeling, the further integration of FEA derivatives libraries, and
major changes to the Barra Integrated Model which will both extend global coverage and provide numerous modeling advancements.



•Expand our presence across all asset classes.We believe our well-established reputation and client base in the equity area as well as our
experienced research staff provide us with a strong foundation to become a leading provider of tools for investors in multi-asset class portfolios and other asset classes such as fixed income. We are investing in these products, particularly our
web-based multi-asset class software application, BarraOne, as well as our US and UK real estate models.



•Expand our capacity to design and produce new products. We intend to increase our investments in new model research, data production systems and
software application design to enable us to design and produce new products more quickly and cost-effectively. Increasing our ability to process additional models and data, and design and code software applications more effectively, will allow us to
respond faster to client needs and bring new products and product enhancements to the market more quickly.



•Growth through acquisition. We intend to actively seek to acquire products, technologies and companies that will enhance, complement or expand
our product offerings and client base, as well as increase our ability to provide investment decision support tools to equity, fixed income and multi-asset class investment institutions. We believe that the impact of the global financial crisis on
companies in, or serving, the financial services industry may increase the number of attractive acquisition opportunities.

Competitive Advantages

We believe our competitive advantages include the following:



•Strong brand recognition. Our indices, portfolio analytics and energy and commodity asset valuation analytics, marketed under the MSCI, Barra
and FEA brands, respectively, are well-established and recognized throughout the investment community worldwide. We are an industry leader in global equity indices, equity portfolio analytics tools and energy asset valuation analytics products
worldwide. Our brand strength reflects the longstanding quality and widespread use of our products. We believe our products are well-positioned to be the tools of choice for investment institutions increasingly looking to third parties for
benchmarking, index-linked product creation, portfolio risk management and related tools.







•Strong client relationships and deep understanding of their needs.Our consultative approach to product development, dedication to client
support and range of products have helped us build strong relationships with investment institutions around the world. We believe the skills, knowledge and experience of our research, software engineering, data management and production and product
management teams enable us to develop and enhance our models, methodologies, data and software applications in accordance with client demands and needs. We consult with our clients and other market participants during the product development and
construction process to take into account their actual investment process requirements.



•Client reliance on our products. Many of our clients have come to rely on our products in their investment management processes, integrating our
products into their performance measurement and risk management processes, where they become an integral part of their daily portfolio management functions. In certain cases, our clients are requested by their customers to report using our tools or
data. Consequently, we believe that certain of our clients may experience business disruption and additional costs if they chose to cease using or replace our products. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, many of our clients became
increasingly subject to budgeting constraints in fiscal year 2009. We believe that our relatively strong financial performance for fiscal year 2009 despite these budgeting constraints evidences the extent to which our clients rely on our products.



•Sophisticated models with practical application. We have invested significant time and resources for more than three decades in developing
highly sophisticated and practical index methodologies and risk models that combine financial theory and investment practice. We enhance our existing models to reflect the evolution of markets and to incorporate methodological advances in risk
forecasting. New models and major enhancements to existing models are reviewed by our model review committee.



•Open architecture and transparency. We have an open architecture philosophy. Clients can access our data through our software applications,
third-party applications or their own applications. We also recognize that the marketplace is complex and that a competitor in one context may be a supplier or distributor in another context. For example, Standard & Poor’s competes
with us in index products, supplies index data available in our portfolio analytics software products and jointly developed and maintains the GICS and GICS Direct with us. In order to provide transparency, we document and disclose many details
of our models and methodologies to our clients so that they can better understand and utilize the tools we offer. We strongly believe this open architecture approach benefits us and our clients.



•Global products and operations. Our products cover most major investment markets throughout the world. For example, as of November 30,
2009, our MSCI Global Equity Indices included 75 developed, emerging and frontier market countries; and we produced equity risk data for 56 single country models and a model covering an additional 29 European countries, and an integrated multi-asset
class risk model that covered 59 equity markets. As of November 30, 2009, our clients were located in 67 countries and many of them have a presence in multiple locations around the world. As of November 30, 2009, our employees were located
in 15 countries in order to maintain close contact with our clients and the international markets we follow. We believe our global presence and focus allow us to serve our clients well and capitalize on a great number of business opportunities in
many countries and regions of the world.



•Highly skilled employees. Our workforce is highly skilled, technical and, in some instances, specialized. In particular, our research and
software application development departments include experts in advanced mathematics, statistics, finance, portfolio investment and software engineering, who combine strong academic credentials with market experience. As of November 30, 2009,
over 50 of our employees held doctorate degrees. Over 85 employees in our diverse global client coverage group held MBAs or other Masters degrees. Our employees’ experience and knowledge gives us access to, and allows us to add value at, the
highest levels of our clients’ organizations.







•Extensive historical databases. We have accumulated comprehensive databases of historical global market data and proprietary index and risk
data. We believe our substantial and valuable databases of proprietary index and risk data, including over 40 years of certain index data history and over 30 years of certain risk data history, would be difficult and costly for another party to
replicate. The information is not available from any single source and would require intensive data checking and quality assurance testing that we have performed over our many years of accumulating this data. Historical data is a critical component
of our clients’ investment processes, allowing them to research and back-test investment strategies and analyze portfolios over many investment and business cycles and under a variety of historical situations and market environments.

Clients

.

As of November 30, 2009, our equity index products were used by more than 2,400 clients. As of November 30, 2009,
our portfolio analytics products were used by over 730 clients worldwide.

Revenues from our ten largest clients contributed a
total of 27.3%, 28.6% and 30.8% of revenues for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

In the fiscal years ended November 30, 2009, 2008, and 2007, our largest client organization by revenue, Barclays PLC and its affiliates (“Barclays”), accounted for 9.9%, 11.0%, and 12.6%, of our operating revenues,
respectively. For the fiscal years ended November 30, 2009, 2008, and 2007, approximately 87.5%, 89.7% and 91.5% of our revenues from Barclays were attributable to fees based on the assets of ETFs linked to MSCI equity indices. On
December 1, 2009, BlackRock, Inc. and Barclays PLC announced the completion of the merger between BlackRock, Inc. and Barclays Global Investors, which includes the iShares exchange traded funds business. For purposes of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, references to revenues attributable to Barclays include revenues generated from the iShares exchange traded funds business.

In addition, 2.3%, 2.9% and 3.4% of our revenues in the year ended November 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, consisted of revenues from Morgan Stanley, which was our controlling shareholder until May 22, 2009.

Marketing

We market our
products to investment institutions and service providers worldwide. See “—Clients” above. Our research and product management teams seek to understand our clients’ investment process and their needs and design tools that help
clients address them. Because of the sophisticated nature of our products, our main







means of marketing is through face-to-face meetings and 24-hour client support, as described in “—Sales and Client Support” below. These marketing and support efforts are
supplemented by our website, our client seminars, our participation in industry conferences, our ongoing product consultations and research papers, and our public relations efforts.

Members of our research team and other employees regularly speak at industry conferences, as well as at our own seminars. We hosted over 150
seminars, webinars, conferences and workshops in various locations across the globe in fiscal year 2009. These seminars, webinars, conferences and workshops bring our staff and our clients’ investment professionals together, expose those
professionals to our latest research and product enhancements and give our staff an opportunity to gain insight into our clients’ needs. Our marketing communications professionals also arrange interviews for our professionals in prominent
industry journals and issue press releases on product developments and releases. Our marketing department collaborates with our product specialists to analyze our clients’ use of our products and to analyze the competitive landscape for our
products.

Sales and Client Support

As of November 30, 2009, our client coverage offices included over 100 sales people and over 90 client support people worldwide. Of these, over 25 were located in our New York headquarters and over
25 were located in our London office. In the last few years we have expanded our sales effort in two ways. We have opened client coverage offices in Boston, Chicago, Dubai, Monterrey, Mumbai, Shanghai, and Stamford. We have also created more teams
dedicated solely to the needs of certain client types such as hedge funds, asset owners and broker dealers. In total, our sales and client support staff was based in 19 offices around the world enabling us to provide valuable face-to-face client
service.

Our sales people service established clients and develop new ones. Our client support team provides 24-hour support
five days a week to our clients as needed. Client support teams focus on different types of clients. We believe that the size, quality, knowledge and experience of our sales and client support staff, as well as their proximity to clients,
differentiate us from our competitors. Because of the sophisticated nature of our products and their uses, our sales and client support staff have strong academic and financial backgrounds. Our sales people are compensated under a salary and bonus
system and do not receive commissions.

The sales cycle for new clients varies based on the product. Because of the
sophisticated nature of our products, most new sales require one or more face-to-face meetings with the prospective client. Once the sales group has obtained a new client, the client is introduced to our client support team. For Barra-branded
products, sales and client support personnel are available to provide intensive on-site training in the use of the models, data and software application underlying each product. They also provide continuing support, which may include on-site visits,
telephone support and routine client support needed in connection with the use of the product, all of which are included in the recurring subscription fee.

Product Development and Production

We take a coordinated team approach to
product development and production. Our product management, research, data operations and technology and software engineering departments are at the center of this process. Despite the challenging market environment, we remained committed to our
product development and production efforts and, in some cases, increased these efforts.

Based on a comprehensive
understanding of the investment process worldwide, our research department is responsible for developing, reviewing and enhancing our various methodologies and models. Our global data operations and technology team designs and manages our processes
and systems for market data procurement, proprietary data production and quality control. Our software engineering team builds our sophisticated software applications. As part of our product development process, we also commonly undertake extensive
consultations







with our clients and other market participants to understand their specific needs and investment process requirements. Our product management team facilitates this collaborative product
development and production approach.





•



Research



•Data Operations and Technology.As of November 30, 2009, our data operations and technology team consisted of more than 230 people in seven
countries, and involved a combination of information technology and operations specialists. We licensed a large volume and variety of market data for every major market in the world, including fundamental and return data, from more than 235 third
party sources in 2009. We apply this market data to our models and methodologies to produce our proprietary index and risk data. Our data operations and technology team oversees this complex process. Our experienced information technology staff
builds internal systems and proprietary software and databases that house all of the data we license in order for our data operations and technology teams to perform data quality checks and run our data production systems. This data factory produces
our proprietary index data such as end of day and real time equity indices, and our proprietary risk data such as daily and monthly equity risk forecasts. We have data operations and technology offices in the U.S., Mexico, Europe and Asia.



•Software Engineering. Certain of our proprietary risk data are made available to clients through our proprietary software applications, such as
Barra Aegis, BarraOne and Barra Cosmos. As of November 30, 2009, our software engineering team consisted of over 65 individuals, including 12 who held Ph.Ds, with significant experience in both the finance and software industries. Our staff has
an extensive skill set, including expertise in both the Java-based technologies used in our web-based, on-demand software application tool for multi-asset class risk analysis and reporting and the Microsoft-based technologies used in our desktop
equity and fixed income analytics software products. We also have extensive experience with database technologies, computational programming techniques, scalability and performance analysis and tuning and quality assurance. We use a customized
software development methodology that leverages best practices from the software industry, including agile programming, test-driven development, parallel tracking, iterative cycles, prototyping and beta releases. We build our software applications
by compiling multiple components, which enables us to







reuse designs and codes in multiple products. Our software development projects involve extensive collaboration with our product management team and directly with clients. We have software
engineering offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.

Our Competition

Many industry participants compete directly with us by offering one or more similar products.

Our principal competitors on a global basis for our MSCI Global Equity Index products are Dow Jones & Company, Inc. (“Dow
Jones”), FTSE International, Ltd (a joint venture between The Financial Times, and The London Stock Exchange), Russell Investment Group (a unit of Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Group) and Standard & Poor’s (a division of The
McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.).

Additionally, we compete with equity index providers whose primary strength is in a local
market or region. These include Russell Investment Group and Standard & Poor’s in the U.S.; STOXX Ltd. (STOXX Ltd. has announced that Dow Jones, one of its three current owners, will sell its ownership stake to the other co-owners,
Deutsche Börse AG and the SIX Group) in Europe; and Nikkei Inc., Russell Investment Group and Nomura Securities, Ltd., and Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. in Japan. There are also many smaller companies that create custom indices primarily for use
as the basis of ETFs.

The principal competitors for our equity portfolio analytics products are Applied Portfolio
Technologies (a unit of Sunguard), Axioma, Inc., FactSet Research Systems, Inc., Northfield Information Services, Inc., and Wilshire Analytics. The primary competitors for our multi-asset class portfolio analytics products are Algorithmics (a member
of Fimalac S.A.) and RiskMetrics Group, Inc.

Additionally, many of the larger broker-dealers have developed proprietary
analytics tools for their clients. Similarly, many investment institutions, particularly the larger global organizations, have developed their own internal analytics tools.

For our other products where our revenues are less significant, we also have a variety of other competitors.

Employees

As of
November 30, 2009, we had 878 employees, an increase of 14.6% or 112 from November 30, 2008. We also had 96 temporary workers worldwide. As of November 30, 2009, 43.1% of our employees were located in emerging market centers compared
to 28.0% as of November 30, 2008.

Until May 22, 2009, certain services were provided to us by Morgan Stanley
employees, which are not included in the numbers above. See “Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Impacting Comparability of Our Financial Results—Our
Relationship with Morgan Stanley.”

None of our employees are represented by a union. The employees in our Monterrey,
Mexico office are protected by a standard common collective bargaining agreement that we have entered into with an independent organization. This agreement was renewed on January 22, 2010. We are current on all of our employee-related
obligations under this agreement and have never experienced a walkout or strike.

The Separation of MSCI from Morgan Stanley

Until May 22, 2009, Morgan Stanley held a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our common stock
and we continued to receive certain services from Morgan Stanley under agreements we entered into at the time of the IPO and at the time of the July 2008 secondary offering with Morgan Stanley. These







agreements defined our ongoing relationship following the IPO and contemplated our and Morgan Stanley’s respective obligations in the event of Morgan Stanley’s divestiture of its entire
interest in us. On May 22, 2009, Morgan Stanley disposed of its remaining equity interest in us. Please refer to Item 1A of Part I “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on the risks associated with our
separation from Morgan Stanley. On November 30, 2009, Morgan Stanley publicly reported that it and its affiliate, Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc., had acquired approximately 10.3% of our class A common stock, but certified that such
acquisition was made in the ordinary course of business and not for the purpose of effecting or influencing a change of control.

During the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009, we paid $35.9 million to Morgan Stanley, the majority of which was related to amounts due under the tax sharing agreement. Set forth below are descriptions of certain agreements and
relationships we have or had with Morgan Stanley.

Services Agreement

We entered into services agreement with Morgan Stanley, dated as of November 20, 2007, as amended and restated July 21, 2008 and
further amended May 22, 2009. Pursuant to the services agreement, Morgan Stanley agreed to provide, directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries or subcontractors, services in the areas of human resources, information technology, accounting,
legal and compliance, tax, office space leasing, corporate services, treasury and other services. Under the services agreement, Morgan Stanley agreed to provide us with certain financial services for up to three months following May 22, 2009 and
certain legal and compliance services for up to six months following May 22, 2009.

License Agreement

Our amended trademark license agreement with Morgan Stanley, which granted us an exclusive royalty-free license to use the Morgan Stanley
trademark “Morgan Stanley Capital International” terminated on May 22, 2009. Prior to May 22, 2009, we had already transitioned our marketing to the “MSCI” trademark and no longer use the “Morgan Stanley Capital
International” trademark. We have registered the “MSCI” trademark in many jurisdictions and will continue using it.

Separation Agreement

In connection with Morgan Stanley’s disposition of its remaining equity interest in
us, we entered into a separation agreement dated as of May 22, 2009 pursuant to which we agreed to use reasonable efforts to settle all intercompany amounts owed between us and Morgan Stanley no later than August 20, 2009, subject to
certain limited exceptions. The separation agreement also governs certain insurance matters between us and Morgan Stanley and permits us to assert claims under certain Morgan Stanley insurance policies for certain losses arising out of insured
occurrences occurring from the date coverage thereunder first commenced until July 15, 2008 (or in the case of an insurance policy covering employed lawyers errors and omissions, July 1, 2008). Additionally, we each have limited access,
upon request, to the other’s accounting and financial records for six years after the date of the agreement to the extent necessary or useful to the requesting party in connection with any audit, dispute, litigation, regulatory proceedings or
filings, or any other reasonable business purpose.

Employee Matters Agreement

In connection with Morgan Stanley’s disposition of its remaining equity interest in us, we entered into an employee matters agreement
dated as of May 22, 2009. The employee matters agreement addressed, among other things, the allocation of certain employment related liabilities between us and Morgan Stanley in connection with our separation from Morgan Stanley. The
employee matters agreement also addresses the tax treatment of certain Morgan Stanley equity awards.







Shareholder Agreement

We entered into a shareholder agreement, dated as of November 20, 2007, as amended and restated July 21, 2008, with Morgan Stanley
which terminated (except for certain indemnification provisions) on May 22, 2009 in connection with Morgan Stanley’s disposition of its remaining equity interest in us that included, among other things (i) Morgan Stanley’s right
to purchase additional shares of class B common stock and appoint additional directors to our board of directors and (ii) certain restrictions on our actions, including restrictions on our ability to repurchase or redeem shares of our
outstanding capital stock.

Tax Sharing Agreement

On November 20, 2007, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Morgan Stanley setting forth the rights and obligations of Morgan
Stanley and us with respect to federal and other income taxes for periods in which we file returns on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis with Morgan Stanley. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, we will be liable for a portion of the
consolidated, combined or unitary tax liability, including any liability resulting from adjustments on audit, based on what our liability would have been, as determined by Morgan Stanley, had we and our subsidiaries been a taxable group separate
from the Morgan Stanley consolidated group.

Furthermore, under the tax sharing agreement, Morgan Stanley prepared and filed
the consolidated federal and applicable consolidated, combined or unitary income tax returns that include taxable periods in which we or a member of our taxable group, on the one hand, and Morgan Stanley or a member of its taxable group, on the
other hand, were included. Tax audits and controversies relating to Morgan Stanley or a member of its taxable group, regardless of whether such tax audit or controversy relates to us or a member of our taxable group, will be controlled by Morgan
Stanley. However, in certain circumstances we may be entitled to control certain audits or controversies relating to taxes that solely relate to us or a member of our taxable group.

Prior to May 3, 2008, we filed federal income tax returns and certain other income tax returns with Morgan Stanley on a consolidated,
combined or unitary basis under the provisions of our tax sharing agreement with Morgan Stanley. After May 2, 2008, we filed certain state and local income tax returns with Morgan Stanley on such basis. After May 22, 2009, we no longer
filed any federal, state or foreign tax returns with Morgan Stanley on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis.

Intellectual Property Agreement

On July 21, 2008, we entered into an intellectual property agreement with
Morgan Stanley granting both parties a reciprocal, non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, world-wide, royalty-free license to use hardware settings and configurations, generic software libraries and routines and generic document templates owned and
not separately commercialized by the granting party, that were used by the grantee prior to May 22, 2009.

Credit Facility

On November 14, 2007, we entered into a secured $500.0 million credit facility with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding,
Inc. and Bank of America, N.A., as agents for a syndicate of lenders, and other lenders party thereto pursuant to a credit agreement dated as of November 20, 2007 (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility consisted of a $425.0
million term loan facility and a $75.0 million revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility is available for working capital requirements and other general corporate purposes (including the financing of permitted acquisitions),
subject to certain conditions. Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility initially accrued interest at (i) LIBOR plus a fixed margin of 2.50% in the case of the term loan A facility and the revolving credit facility and 3.00% in the case
of the term loan B facility or (ii) the base rate plus a fixed margin of 1.50% in the case of the term loan A facility and the revolving credit facility and 2.00% in the case of the term loan B facility. In April 2008 and again in July 2008,
our fixed margin rate was reduced by 0.25%. During the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009, we exercised our rights and chose to have a portion of both the







term loan A facility and term loan B facility referenced to the one month LIBOR rates while the remaining portions continued to reference the three month LIBOR rates. The weighted average
rate on the term loan A facility and term loan B facility was 2.95% and 3.57%, respectively, for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009. Principal repayment requirements are paid quarterly in February, May, August and November. Interest on the
principal is required to be paid either every three months in February, May, August and November or monthly, depending on whether the referenced LIBOR rates are three-month or one-month LIBOR rates. At November 30, 2009, $380.5 million was
outstanding and there was $75.0 million of unused credit under the revolving credit facility.

The revolving credit facility
is available for working capital requirements and other general corporate purposes (including the financing of permitted acquisitions), subject to certain conditions, and matures on November 20, 2012. For a description of certain provisions of
our Credit Facility, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

Available Information

Our corporate headquarters are located at Wall
Street Plaza, 88 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. We maintain an Investor Relations website on the Internet at www.mscibarra.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this website,
our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these, click on the “SEC Filings” link
found on our Investor Relations homepage.

Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this
Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report filed with the SEC.



