Item 1.Business

Overview

We are a
leading global provider of investment decision support tools, including indices, portfolio risk and performance analytics and corporate governance products and services. Our products and services address multiple markets, asset classes and
geographies and are sold to a diverse client base including asset owners, such as pension funds, endowments, foundations, central banks, family offices and insurance companies; institutional and retail asset managers, such as managers of pension
assets, mutual funds, exchange traded funds (“ETFs”), hedge funds and private wealth; financial intermediaries, such as banks, broker-dealers, exchanges, custodians and investment consultants; and corporate clients. As of November 30,
2010, we had approximately 5,800 clients across 78 countries. We had 33 offices in 19 countries to help serve our diverse client base, with approximately 53.3% of our revenue from clients in the Americas, 32.4% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
(“EMEA”) and 14.3% in Asia and Australia, based on revenues for the year ended November 30, 2010. See “—Clients” below for an explanation of how we calculate our number of clients.

Effective with the acquisition of RiskMetrics, the Company consists of two industry leading businesses: the Performance and Risk business
and the Governance business. Together, these businesses offer what we believe is the most comprehensive suite of performance, risk management and corporate governance products and services available in our industry. See “—Company History
and Acquisitions” below.

Our Performance and Risk business is a leading global provider of investment decision support
tools, including equity indices, portfolio risk and performance analytics, credit analytics and environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) products. Our Performance and Risk products are used in many areas of the investment process,
including portfolio construction and rebalancing, performance benchmarking and attribution, risk management and analysis, index-linked investment product creation, asset allocation, assessment of social responsibility and environmental stewardship
and the effects of climate change on investments, investment manager selection and investment research. The flagship products within our Performance and Risk business are our Global Equity Indices and ESG products marketed under the MSCI brand, our
market and credit risk analytics marketed under the RiskMetrics and Barra brands, our portfolio risk and performance analytics covering global equity and fixed income markets marketed under the Barra brand and our valuation models and risk
management software for the energy and commodities markets marketed under the FEA brand.




Our Governance business is a leading provider of corporate governance and specialized
financial research and analysis services to institutional investors and corporations around the world. Among other things, the Governance business facilitates the voting of proxies by institutional investors and provides in-depth research and
analysis to help inform voting decisions and identify issuer-specific risk. The Governance business offers both global security coverage and fully integrated products and services, including proxy voting, policy creation, research, vote
recommendations, vote execution, post-vote disclosure and reporting and analytical tools. Within a firewall designed to separate it from the rest of the Governance business, a unit of the Governance business also provides products and services to
corporate clients who may use those products and services to learn about and improve their governance and executive compensation practices. The flagship products within our Governance business are our governance research and outsourced proxy voting
and reporting services marketed under the ISS brand and our forensic accounting risk research, legal and regulatory risk assessment and due diligence products marketed under the CFRA brand.

Our Aggregate and Core Retention Rates for the year ended November 30, 2010 were 87.2% and 88.1% and are lower than pre-financial crisis peaks due to the recent adverse financial environment and increased
competition which resulted in client liquidations and consolidations, price pressure and declines in demand for discretionary financial research products. See “Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations—Retention Rates,” for definitions of Aggregate and Core Retention Rates.

Company History and Acquisitions

We were a pioneer in developing the market for global equity index products and introduced our first equity index products
in 1969. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1998 and until we became a public company in November 2007 our only two shareholders were Morgan Stanley and Capital Group International, Inc. (“Capital Group International”).

In June 2004, we acquired Barra, Inc. (“Barra”), a provider of portfolio risk analytics tools that launched its first risk
analytics products in 1975, broadening our product range beyond index products.

In November 2007, we completed an initial
public offering (“IPO”) of approximately 16.1 million shares of our class A common stock. In connection with the IPO, we reclassified our outstanding common stock into shares of class A common stock and class B common stock and
immediately following the IPO, Morgan Stanley held approximately 81.0 million shares of our class B common stock and Capital Group International held approximately 2.9 million shares of our class B common stock. Under the terms of our
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, when shares of class B common stock convert into shares of class A common stock, they do so on a one-to-one basis.

In May 2008, Morgan Stanley converted approximately 28.0 million shares of our class B common stock into class A common stock by selling such shares in a registered secondary equity offering.
Capital Group







International converted approximately 2.9 million shares of our class B common stock, representing all of its equity interest in us, into shares of our class A common stock and transferred
them to its affiliate The Capital Group Companies Charitable Foundation (“Capital Group Charitable Foundation”). Capital Group Charitable Foundation sold all of these shares pursuant to the same registered secondary equity offering.

In July 2008, Morgan Stanley converted approximately 25.0 million shares of our class B common stock into shares of
class A common stock by selling such shares pursuant to a registered secondary equity offering.

In May 2009, Morgan Stanley
converted approximately 27.7 million shares of our class B common stock, representing the remainder of its equity interest in us, into shares of our class A common stock by selling such shares pursuant to a registered secondary offering.
Currently, there are no shares of our class B common stock outstanding and management has no intention of issuing any shares of our class B common stock. Although we began the transition to an independent, stand-alone public company at the time of
our IPO in November 2007, we became an independent, stand-alone public company following the May 2009 secondary offering.

In
November 2009, we issued approximately 3.8 million shares of our class A common stock pursuant to a registered offering completed in conjunction with our inclusion in the S&P MidCap 400 Index.

In July 2010, we acquired
Measurisk, LLC (“Measurisk”), a provider of risk transparency and risk measurement tools for hedge fund investors, to aid us in developing a broad platform and setting the standard for analyzing and reporting hedge fund risk in response to
our clients’ demands for increasing levels of transparency from their hedge fund managers.

Over the course of more than
40 years, we believe our organization has accumulated an in-depth understanding of the investment process worldwide. Based on this wealth of knowledge, we have created and continue to develop, enhance and refine sophisticated tools to meet the
growing, complex and diverse needs of our clients’ investment processes. Our models and methodologies are the intellectual foundation of our business and include the innovative algorithms, formulas and analytical and quantitative techniques
that we use, together with market data, to produce our products. Our long history has allowed us to build extensive databases of proprietary index, risk and governance data, as well as accumulate valuable historical market data, which we believe
would be difficult to replicate and which provides us with a substantial competitive advantage.







We have grown significantly, organically and through acquisitions, such as those described
above, with respect to our number of employees and revenues. As we have grown, we have increased our operations outside of the United States. We currently have branches or subsidiaries located in the following countries: Australia, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, China, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, United Arab Emirates, the U.K. and the U.S.

Business Segments, Products and Services

We divide our business operations
into two segments: the Performance and Risk business and the Governance business. Business segment revenue, segment income from operations and assets attributable to foreign and domestic operations are set forth in Note 14, “Segment
Information,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included herein.

Performance and Risk Business
Segment

Index and ESG Products

Our MSCI-branded equity indices are designed to measure returns available to investors across a wide variety of markets (e.g.,
Europe, Japan or emerging markets), sizes (e.g., small capitalization or large capitalization), styles (e.g., growth or value) and industries (e.g., banks or media). Our MSCI branded ESG indices are designed to help clients
incorporate environmental, social and governance factors into their investment decisions. As of November 30, 2010, we calculated over 148,000 indices daily.

In addition to delivering our products directly to our clients, as of November 30, 2010, we also had more than 65 third-party financial information and analytics software providers who distribute our
various equity index products worldwide. The performance of our equity indices is also frequently referenced when selecting investment managers, assigning return benchmarks in mandates, comparing performance and providing market and academic
commentary. The performance of certain of our equity indices is reported on a daily basis in the financial media.

Our primary
index products are:



•MSCI Global Equity Indices. The MSCI Global Equity Indices are our flagship index products. They are designed to measure returns available to
global investors across a variety of public equity markets. As of November 30, 2010, the MSCI Global Equity Indices covered 76 countries, including, among







others, those in our developed market, emerging market and frontier market categories, as well as various regional and composite indices built from the component country indices, including the
well-known MSCI EAFE (Europe, Australasia, and Far East), MSCI World, MSCI ACWI IMI (All Country World Investable Market Index) and MSCI Emerging Market Indices. In addition, the MSCI Global Equity Indices include industry indices, thematic and
strategy indices, value and growth style indices and large-, mid-, small- and micro-capitalization size segment indices.

We believe that the MSCI Global Equity Indices are the most widely used benchmarks for cross border equity funds. We continue to enhance and expand this successful product offering. Recently, various
pension plans have announced their use of our broad equity index, MSCI ACWI IMI, as the policy benchmark for their equities portion. We have also recently introduced new indices such as the MSCI All Cap Indices, the MSCI Micro Cap Indices for all
developed countries and regions, the MSCI Frontier Markets Small Cap Indices and the MSCI Value Weighted Indices.



•MSCI US Equity Indices. The MSCI US Equity Indices are designed to reflect the full breadth of investment opportunities within the US equity
markets. The MSCI US Equity Indices include value and growth style indices, large-, mid-, small- and micro-capitalization size segment indices and sectors/industries indices.



•MSCI Custom Indices. Over the years we have significantly expanded our capabilities to calculate custom indices. We currently calculate over
5,000 custom indices, which apply a client’s customization criteria to an existing MSCI index. Examples of customization criteria include currency, hedging, stock exclusions or special weighting. Custom indices can reflect specific investment
criteria, such as socially responsible investment requirements or regulatory constraints, and can be used for back-testing a strategy or developing a specialized investment product, minimizing portfolio tracking error and constructing index-linked
products.



•MSCI ESG Indices. The MSCI ESG Indices allow clients to more effectively benchmark ESG investment performance and manage, measure and report on
their compliance with ESG mandates, as well as to issue index-based ESG investment products. The MSCI ESG Indices include sustainability indices, indices that take into account certain values, norms or ethical standards, environmental-themed indices
such as alternative energy or clean technology and custom indices based on clients’ unique ESG requirements.



•Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS). The Global Industry Classification Standard was developed and is maintained jointly by MSCI and
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services, LLC (“Standard & Poor’s”). We designed this classification system to respond to our clients’ needs for a consistent, accurate and complete framework for classifying
companies into industries. GICS has been widely accepted as an industry analysis framework for investment research, portfolio management and asset allocation. Our equity index products classify constituent securities according to GICS.

We also offer GICS Direct, a joint product of MSCI and Standards & Poor’s.
GICS Direct is a database of more than 40,000 active companies and over 45,000 securities classified by sector, industry group, industry and sub-industry in accordance with proprietary GICS methodology.



•MSCI ESG Research. MSCI ESG Research products and services help investors integrate ESG factors into their investment decisions. Investors
integrate ESG factors to better understand investment risk and opportunities and/or to align investment with a set of ESG values.

Products include research, screening and modeling tools that allow institutional investors and asset managers to align investments with a set of ESG values such as perceptions of certain business
activities, religious views or international norms; generate buy/restricted lists of companies that meet those criteria; understand the implications of restrictions on portfolios; and examine company specific profiles.







MSCI ESG Research also provides ESG ratings and analysis on thousands of
companies worldwide. These sector based research reports are designed to identify and analyze key ESG issues for the sector, which may include the intersection of a corporations’ major social and environmental impacts with its core business
operations, thereby identifying potential risks and opportunities for the company and its investors.

Portfolio Management Analytics
Products

Our Barra-branded portfolio management analytics products are designed to assist investment professionals in
analyzing and managing risks and returns for equities at both the asset and portfolio level in major equity markets worldwide. Barra equity models identify and analyze the factors that influence equity asset returns and risk. Our most widely used
Barra equity products utilize our fundamental multi-factor equity risk model data to help our clients construct, analyze, optimize and manage portfolios. Our multi-factor models identify common factors that influence stock price movements, such as
industry and style characteristics, based on market and fundamental data. The proprietary risk data available in our products identifies an asset’s or a portfolio’s sensitivities to these common factors. Risk not attributable to the common
factors is risk unique to the asset.

Our global equity models include the following:

Barra Global Equity Model (“GEM2”). GEM2 is an investment decision support tool designed for global
equity portfolio management and construction. It uses a set of factors that best explain the sources of global equity risk and returns.

Barra Integrated Model (“BIM”).BIM provides a detailed view of risk across markets and asset classes, including currencies, equities, fixed income assets, commodities, mutual fund assets
and hedge fund assets. It begins by identifying the factors that affect the returns of equity and fixed income securities and currencies in each individual country or market. These factors are then combined into a single global model that can
forecast the risk of multi-asset class, global portfolios.

Our single country and regional risk models include the following:

Barra Single Country Equity Models.Our single country equity models identify the unique set of factors
most able to explain sources of risks and returns of portfolios in that country. Examples include the Barra US Equity Model (“USE3”) which models risk for U.S. equity assets and portfolios and is our most frequently licensed model, and the
Barra UK Equity Model (“UKE7”) which models risk for United Kingdom equity assets and portfolios.

Barra Regional Equity Models. We produce two regional equity models, the Europe Equity Model (“EUE3”) and
the Asia-Pacific Equity Model (“ASE1”). These models are designed to be used across a broad range of applications and are available in different versions to reflect local and regional commonalities, as well as short-term and long-term
investment horizons. The EUE3 model covers approximately 11,000 stocks in 29 markets, including many emerging and frontier markets in Eastern Europe. The ASE1 model covers approximately 21,600 stocks in 15 markets, including emerging and frontier
markets in the region.

When assigning investment mandates to asset managers, institutional asset owners often prescribe
investment restrictions for portfolio risk and tracking error that are measured, reported and monitored using Barra products. Our clients can use our portfolio analytics by installing our proprietary software applications and equity risk data in
their technology platforms, by accessing our software applications and risk data via the Internet, by integrating our equity risk data into their own applications or through third-party applications, like those provided by FactSet Research Systems
Inc. (“FactSet”), that have incorporated our equity risk data and analytics into their offerings.







Our primary portfolio analytics products are:



•Barra Aegis. Barra Aegis is our flagship equity risk management and analytics system. It is a sophisticated software application for equity risk
management and portfolio analysis that is powered by our proprietary equity risk data. It is deployed by the client as a desktop application. Barra Aegis is an integrated suite of equity investment analytics modules, specifically designed to help
clients actively manage their equity risk against their expected returns. It also enables clients to construct optimized portfolios based on client-specified expectations and constraints.

Barra Aegis also provides a factor-based performance attribution module which allows clients to analyze realized returns
relative to risk factors by sectors, styles, currencies and regions. Barra Aegis tools also help clients identify returns attributable to stock selection skills. Additionally, using Barra Aegis’ advanced automation tools, clients can back-test
their portfolio construction strategies over time.



•Barra Portfolio Manager. Barra Portfolio Manager is an integrated risk and performance platform that is designed to help fund managers and their
teams gain additional portfolio insight, manage a more systematic investment process and make faster, more informed investment decisions. The web-based interactive user interface allows users to quickly and easily analyze risk and return,
monitor portfolios and conduct pre-trade what-if analysis across a number of scenarios. The platform supports optional data management services that allow users to outsource the loading and reconciliation of their portfolio and other
proprietary data.



•Barra Equity Models Direct. Barra Equity Models Direct delivers our proprietary risk data to clients for integration into their own software
applications. The proprietary risk data in Barra Equity Models Direct is also available via third-party providers. We offer the proprietary risk data from global, regional and single country Barra risk models and most of these models are available
in short-term and long-term time horizons so that clients can select the risk data that best suits their investment processes.



•Barra Cosmos. Barra Cosmos enables global fixed income portfolio managers to manage risk and optimize return in a multi-currency, global bond
portfolio. This adaptable product integrates specific bond, derivative and currency strategies to reflect each user’s investment style, while monitoring the overall risk exposure of the portfolio. Barra Cosmos is deployed by the client as a
desktop application.

Risk Management Analytics Products

Our risk management analytics products offer a consistent risk assessment framework for managing and monitoring investments in a variety
of asset classes across an organization. The products are based on our proprietary integrated fundamental multi-factor risk models, value-at-risk methodologies and asset valuation models. They enable clients to identify, monitor, report and manage
potential market risks from equities, fixed income, derivatives contracts and alternative investments, and to analyze portfolios and systematically analyze risk and return across multiple asset classes, including equities, bonds, commodities,
foreign exchange, futures, options, derivatives, structured products, interest-rate products and credit products. Using these tools, clients can identify the drivers of market and credit risk across their investments, produce daily risk reports, run
pre-trade analysis, perform what-if stress-tests and simulation analysis and optimizations, evaluate and monitor multiple asset managers and investment teams and access correlations across a group of selected assets or portfolios.

We have two major products in this area, BarraOne and RiskManager:



•BarraOne. BarraOne, powered by the Barra Integrated Model, provides clients with global, multi-asset class risk analysis using Barra fundamental
factor technology. BarraOne also includes VaR simulation, stress testing, optimization and performance attribution modules that enable clients to manage multi-asset class portfolios, carry out risk allocation budgeting, manager monitoring,
performance attribution and regulatory risk reporting. The product is accessed by clients via a secure, interactive web-based session, web services or on an outsourced basis.







•RiskManager. RiskManager is an industry leader in VaR simulation and stress testing. Clients use RiskManager for daily analyzing, measuring and
monitoring of market risk at fund and firm level, for sensitivity and stress testing, and interactive what-if analysis. RiskManager is a highly scalable platform accessed by clients via a license to a secure, interactive web-based application
service, as an outsourced risk reporting service or as a web service in which a client’s systems access RiskMetrics core risk elements by connecting directly to our systems. RiskManager includes, among other modules, the CounterParty Risk
Reporting module that provides clients with counterparty exposures and is offered as either a web service or a managed service in which our staff oversee the production of CounterParty Risk reports on behalf of our clients.

In addition, we offer:



•Hedge Fund Risk Transparency Solutions. HedgePlatform, a reporting service, and InterSight, an interactive web-based reporting service, allow
clients that invest in hedge funds, including funds of funds, pension funds and endowments, to measure, evaluate and monitor the risk of their hedge fund investments across multiple hedge fund strategies. We collect position-level information from
hedge funds on a monthly basis and provide our clients with a risk report for each individual hedge fund in which they invest as well as an aggregate risk report for their overall portfolio of hedge funds. Our clients who use RiskManager to measure
the risk of their own holdings can further integrate the positions collected via our HedgePlatform and Intersight services to allow computation of risk across their entire portfolio, while the confidential and proprietary nature of the underlying
hedge fund holdings is maintained. HedgePlatform and InterSight reports include statistics such as exposure (long, short, net and gross), sensitivities, scenario analysis, stress tests and VAR analysis.



•DataMetrics.DataMetrics is a data service that allows clients to access the market data embedded in RiskManager for use in their own
proprietary or other third-party systems. In addition to direct access to market data time series, DataMetrics can provide clients with customized data processing services.



•WealthBench.WealthBench is an investment planning platform for private banks, financial advisors, brokerages and trust companies. WealthBench
delivers fully-informed, tailored investment planning proposals for high net worth individuals reflecting their needs, goals and risk tolerances while remaining consistent with firm-driven investment and risk-based policies. WealthBench incorporates
robust analytics, market-consistent inputs and transparent methodologies.



•CreditManager. Our CreditManager product is a portfolio credit risk management system used primarily by banks to calculate economic capital and
credit scores, facilitate risk-based pricing and measure risk concentrations. The application is designed to consolidate and compare risks and opportunities across multiple credit exposures including bonds, credit derivatives and traditional
lending.

Energy and Commodity Analytics Products

Our Energy and Commodity Analytics products are software applications that offer a variety of quantitative analytics tools for valuing,
modeling and facilitating the hedging of physical assets and derivatives across a number of market segments including energy and commodity assets. These products are used by investors, traders and those hedging investments in these asset classes.
The software applications are not provided with any market data or proprietary index or risk data. These products are typically branded “FEA” and include products such as FEA@Energy, FEA VaRworks and FEA StructureTool.

Governance Segment

Our Governance business is a leading provider of corporate governance and financial research and analysis services to institutional investors and corporations around the world. We categorize our
Governance business







into three distinct categories: (i) Proxy Research and Voting, Global Proxy Distribution (“GPD”) and Securities Class Action Services (“SCAS”), (ii) ISS Corporate
Services and (iii) Financial Research and Analysis (“FR&A”). The pricing model for our Governance business’ products and services is primarily subscription-based and varies depending on the product or service purchased.

Proxy Research and Voting, GPD and SCAS

Our Proxy Research and Voting, GPD and SCAS products are designed to provide proxy services, including proxy voting and in-depth research
and analysis to help inform voting decisions and assess issuer-specific risk, to institutional investors globally. ISS is the largest proxy advisory firm that offers a fully-integrated, end-to-end proxy voting service, including policy creation,
comprehensive research, vote recommendations, vote execution and reporting and analytical tools. During fiscal year 2010, Proxy Research and Voting, GPD and SCAS accounted for approximately 72.3% of revenues attributable to our Governance business.

Our primary product categories are:



•Proxy Research and Voting. Through its ProxyExchange platform, ISS provides clients with vote recommendations, comprehensive analyses and online
voting capabilities that enable users to make informed decisions about how to vote on all items with respect to each shareholder meeting agenda that is covered, execute their votes and monitor and track their votes for reporting purposes.

ISS’ proxy voting services include notifying clients of upcoming shareholder meetings, receiving proxy ballots from third-party proxy distributors, generating consolidated proxy ballots and
instructions across its clients’ portfolios, executing and tabulating its clients’ votes in accordance with their instructions, maintaining voting records and providing comprehensive vote reporting.



•Global Proxy Distribution Services (“GPD”). Our GPD service offers a complete global proxy distribution solution to custodian
banks for non-U.S. securities through a single independent platform. GPD provides for the efficient distribution and voting of proxies giving clients the ability to review and download detailed meeting information and individualized account
information. GPD also provides online access to customized record-keeping and reporting across all custodians and sub-custodians.



•Securities Class Action Services (“SCAS”). We deliver a complete class action monitoring and claims filing service to institutional
investors who have potential recovery rights in class action lawsuits. We







provide an extensive securities litigation database, including up-to-date case information and detailed historical class action data, and provide fully-outsourced notification, tracking and
claims filing services to our institutional clients. Our arrangements with claims administrators and law firms around the world enable us to advise on new developments in global markets and streamline the filing process.

SCAS offers more detailed portfolio specific views of cases and settlements with an online report library
that allows clients to keep track of the complete securities class action lifecycle from when a case is first identified until payment is disbursed. Securities class action data provided to our clients include class periods, settlement dates, status
reports, award amounts, claim deadline dates, claims administrator details and pertinent related data.

ISS Corporate
Services

Our ISS Corporate Services products and services are designed to help clients reduce risk and build
shareholder value through strong governance programs by leveraging our expertise in the areas of executive compensation, governance ratings, capital structure, voting trends and corporate governance research. ISS Corporate Services tools and
advisory services help clients to design, manage and measure their corporate governance programs. The majority of ISS Corporate Services’ revenues are one-time, non-recurring. During fiscal year 2010, ISS Corporate Services products and
services accounted for approximately 18.4% of revenues attributable to our Governance business.

Our primary ISS Corporate
Services products and services include:



•Compensation and Corporate Advisory Services. We provide a set of turnkey products and services that enable compensation professionals and board
committee members to optimize compensation plan design by modeling, analyzing and benchmarking executive compensation. Our Compensation and Corporate Advisory Services provide access to experienced and dedicated compensation plan analysts and
support to our clients in modeling the cost of equity compensation plans and determining optimal compensation plan design. Alternatively, we provide a web-based compensation modeling tool, Compass, that measures the cost of equity-based incentive
plans using a binomial option pricing model.



•Governance Exchange. Governance Exchange provides a high-quality online discussion forum to facilitate constructive dialogue on corporate
governance issues between those involved in corporate governance, including institutional investors, board directors and corporate executives. Members of Governance Exchange also have access to a diverse range of corporate governance viewpoints and
research through webcasts, white papers, surveys, and expert analysis.



•Proxy Research and Publications. Proxy Research and Publications offers a searchable database of publications, research articles and online
reports designed to help corporate secretaries, investor relations professionals, executives, directors and other professionals track ISS recommendations and analysis. Through an alerts service, users of Proxy Research also receive the latest proxy
research reports released for their company or for peer companies, and can opt to be alerted when proxy research reports containing specific proposal types are released.

Financial Research and Analysis

Our FR&A products and services are designed to assess the overall financial health of companies by analyzing the investment implications of companies’ accounting policies, legal and regulatory
exposure, environmental, social and governance practices, mergers and acquisitions initiatives and compensation plans. Our FR&A product and service offerings are provided primarily to portfolio managers for investment analysis, to corporations
to monitor compliance with corporate governance practices and to professional services organizations to support due diligence efforts. These offerings are either bundled with other services or sold on an individual basis and allow investors to add
specialized, qualitative analysis to more traditional research used in the investment decision-making process. During fiscal year 2010, FR&A accounted for approximately 9.3% of revenues attributable to our Governance business.







CFRA Forensic Accounting Research. Through a rigorous and proprietary research
process, our global team of analysts assesses the reported financial results of over 10,000 companies worldwide. We focus on providing our clients with timely and actionable risk analysis reports regarding earnings and cash flow quality and
sustainability, legal and regulatory risk and overall business health. Our clients rely on our continuous analysis and objective perspective. Accounting Lens, our largest product, is a leading forensic accounting risk research report offering for
investors, providing early warning signals for companies showing signs of operational or financial distress. The reports consist of in-depth company research, educational and industry research, access to our proprietary earnings quality database and
research analyst contact. In addition, CFRA’s Legal Edge product is focused on identifying and analyzing hidden legal and regulatory risks. CFRA also provides customized research services for client-defined projects.

Growth Strategy

We have
experienced growth in recent years with operating revenues and operating income increasing by 49.7% and 36.5%, respectively, for the year ended November 30, 2010 compared to the year ended November 30, 2009, and by 2.8% and 11.2%,
respectively, for the year ended November 30, 2009 compared to the year ended November 30, 2008. Excluding the impact of the RiskMetrics and Measurisk acquisitions, our operating revenues and operating income increased by 14.3% and 22.5%,
respectively, for the year ended November 30, 2010 compared to the year ended November 30, 2009.

We believe we are
well-positioned for significant growth over time and have a multi-faceted growth strategy that builds on our strong client relationships, products, brands and integral role in the investment process. Most of our clients are in the financial services
industry. In 2008 and 2009, stock market volatility and lack of available credit led to increased budgetary pressures at a number of our clients and the closure or consolidation of a number of our clients, which negatively impacted our financial
results for those periods. Although our Retention Rates and new sales growth have generally improved in 2010 compared to the last two years, we expect to see continued improvement over time. Additionally, we believe that our acquisition of
RiskMetrics meaningfully advances each of the growth strategies that we have identified and pursued over the last three years. Set forth below are the principal elements of our strategy to grow our Company and meet the increasing needs of our
clients for investment decision support tools:



•Client Growth. We believe there are significant opportunities to increase the number of users and locations and the number of products we
license to existing client organizations, and to obtain new clients in both existing and new geographic markets and client types worldwide. We intend to:



•Increase product subscriptions and users within our current client base.Many of our clients use only one or a limited number of our products,
and we believe there are substantial opportunities to cross sell our other investment decision support tools as we have expanded our suite of equity index, ESG, risk, governance and research products. For example, we will continue to seek
opportunities to sell risk and portfolio analytics products to our existing index only clients. In addition, we will continue to focus on adding new users, new locations and new modules for current products with existing clients. In the year ended
November 30, 2010, approximately 75.4% of our new sales resulted from sales to existing clients.



•Expand client base in current client types.We plan to add new clients by leveraging our brand strength, our products, our broad access to the
global investment community and our strong knowledge of the investment process. This includes client types in which we already have a strong penetration for our flagship global equity index, risk management analytics, portfolio analytics and
governance products.



•Increase licensing of indices for ETFs. During the year ended November 30, 2010, increases in the assets in ETFs linked to MSCI indices
reflected in the table below contributed significantly to revenue growth in the Index and ESG product category. We believe that there is potential for







continued growth and expansion in this market in the future and we will continue to increase licensing of our indices for index-linked investment products to capitalize on their growth in number
and variety.

Assets in ETFs Linked to MSCI Indices



As of November 30,MSCI Equity Index201020092008(in billions)Emerging Markets$102.7$63.3$22.6EAFE39.439.629.6US Broad Market15.612.98.2Brazil12.812.93.9Europe8.07.94.0Japan7.87.48.0Subtotal186.3144.076.3Other Indices124.790.242.7Total$311.0$234.2$119.0



Source:
Bloomberg & MSCI.

Number of Primary Exchange Listings of ETFs Linked to MSCI Equity Indices



As of November 30,Region201020092008Americas1309376EMEA25316585Asia20106Total403268167



•Expand licensing of other index based financial products. We believe that additional opportunities exist to expand the licensing of our index
products as the basis of derivatives.



•Build a dedicated sales team and provide services tied to regulatory changes.We believe that increased regulation in Europe such as the
U.K.’s Stewardship Code will increase the market size and opportunity for ISS as the market leader. In the U.S. we believe regulation tied to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) will
increase requirements for financial services firms to disclose and report proxy voting and create new sales opportunities as the market for proxy services grows. Additionally, we are building a dedicated sales team for the ISS business that will
allow us to better capture these opportunities and compete for market share.



•Expand the use of ESG in the traditional investment process.We plan to leverage MSCI’s non-ESG client relationships to sell MSCI ESG
Research to investment analysts and portfolio managers who may not have previously used it. We believe that portfolio managers and analysts will increasingly utilize MSCI ESG Research to provide additional insight into investment risks and
opportunities. Furthermore, in October 2010, MSCI became a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (“PRI”), which is a global initiative supporting the integration of ESG factors into institutional investing practices. By
joining many of our clients as signatories to the PRI, we are demonstrating our commitment to provide critical investment tools to the growing number of asset owners and investment managers that are integrating ESG factors into their investment
decisions.







•Managed services offering in Risk and Portfolio Management products. We plan to expand our fully-outsourced or managed service offering in which
our staff oversee the production of risk and performance reports on behalf of our clients.



•Expand into client types in which we are underrepresented.We plan to expand into client types in which we do not currently have a leading
presence. In particular, we intend to focus on increasing the number of pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, hedge fund managers, fund-of-fund managers, banks, brokers and endowments using our products. For example, many pension funds are familiar
with us and our Global Equity Indices because the performance of their equity asset managers is measured in relation to our indices. We believe that our equity and multi-asset class portfolio analytics products would be useful to pension funds
managing their investment risk. With the acquisition of RiskMetrics, we have expanded our presence with sell-side institutions, banks and hedge funds.



•Expand global presence.We have a strong presence in many developed markets. While we have established a presence in selected emerging market
countries, there is potential for further penetration and growth in these markets. We intend to leverage our strong brands, reputation, products and existing presence to continue to expand in these markets and gain more clients. We believe that the
international market for governance products and service is growing, and that we will be able to capitalize on increased demand by leveraging our globally-recognized ISS brand, international presence and sales force.



•Product Growth. We plan to develop new product offerings and continue to enhance our existing products through internal product development.



•Create innovative new product offerings and enhancements.In order to maintain and enhance our leadership position, we plan to introduce
innovative new products and enhancements to existing products. We maintain an active dialogue with our clients in order to understand their needs and anticipate market developments. In fiscal year 2011, we anticipate significant further innovation
with the integration of HedgePlatform and Measurisk, new developments in equity factor models, multi-asset class performance attribution, tail risk modeling and instrument valuation, and major changes to the Barra Integrated Model which will both
extend global coverage, including significant upgrades to our fixed-income models and provide numerous modeling advancements.



•Expand our capacity to design and produce new products. We intend to increase our investments in new model research, data production systems and
software application design to enable us to design and produce new products more quickly and cost-effectively. Increasing our ability to process additional models and data, and design and code software applications more effectively, will allow us to
respond faster to client needs and bring new products and product enhancements to the market more quickly.



•Expand our presence across all asset classes.We will continue to extend the market and instrument coverage offered in our multi-asset class
risk products. Our investments include expanded data sets and models for emerging and frontier markets, private asset classes, including private real estate and private equity, and pricing models for instruments with complex payoff structures.



•Expand our collection of proprietary governance data to increase product subscriptions and expand the reporting functionality of ProxyExchange to
take advantage of regulatory changes.We plan to increase our data collection capabilities in the area of executive compensation allowing us to target new sales opportunities. We will also expand the reporting functionality of ProxyExchange to
offer clients more custom reporting opportunities and deliver compliance reporting services associated with the changing regulatory landscape.



•Growth through acquisitions. We intend to continue to actively seek to acquire products, technologies and companies that will enhance,
complement or expand our product offerings and







client base, as well as increase our ability to provide investment decision support tools to equity, fixed income and multi-asset class investment institutions. In fiscal year 2010, we acquired
RiskMetrics and Measurisk.

Competitive Advantages

We believe our competitive advantages include the following:



•Strong brand recognition. Our Global Equity Indices and ESG products and services are marketed under the MSCI brand, our portfolio risk and
performance analytics covering global equity and fixed income are marketed under the Barra brand, our market and credit risk analytics are marketed under the RiskMetrics and Barra brands, our energy and commodity asset valuation analytics are
marketed under the FEA brand and our corporate governance products and services are marketed under the ISS brand. These brands are well-established and recognized throughout the investment community worldwide. Our brand strength reflects the
longstanding quality and widespread use of our products. We believe our products are well-positioned to be the tools of choice for investment institutions increasingly looking to third-party products and services for help with benchmarking,
index-linked product creation and portfolio risk management.



•Strong client relationships and deep understanding of their needs.Our consultative approach to product development, dedication to client
support and range of products have helped us build strong relationships with investment institutions around the world. We believe the skills, knowledge and experience of our research, software engineering, data management and production and product
management teams enable us to develop and enhance our models, methodologies, data and software applications in accordance with client demands and needs. We consult with our clients and other market participants during the product development and
construction process to take into account their actual investment process requirements.



•Client reliance on our products. Many of our clients have come to rely on our products in their investment management processes, integrating our
products into their performance measurement and risk management processes, where they become an integral part of their daily portfolio management functions. In certain cases, our clients are requested by their customers to report using our tools or
data. Consequently, we believe that certain of our clients may experience business disruption and additional costs if they chose to cease using or replace our products. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, many of our clients became
increasingly subject to budgeting constraints in fiscal years 2009 and 2010. We believe that our levels of new sales and improved Aggregate and Core Retention Rates for fiscal year 2010, despite these budgeting constraints, evidences the extent to
which our clients rely on our products.



•Sophisticated models with practical application. We have invested significant time and resources for more than three decades in developing
highly sophisticated and practical index methodologies and risk models that combine financial theory and investment practice. We enhance our existing models to reflect the evolution of markets and to incorporate methodological advances in risk
forecasting. New models and major enhancements to existing models are reviewed by our model review committee.



•Open architecture and transparency. We have an open architecture philosophy. Clients can access our data through our software applications,
third-party applications or their own applications. We also recognize that the marketplace is complex and that a competitor in one context may be a supplier or distributor in another context. For example, Standard & Poor’s competes
with us in index products, supplies index data that we distribute in our portfolio analytics software products and jointly developed and maintains GICS and GICS Direct with us. In order to provide transparency, we document and disclose many
details of our models and methodologies to our clients so that they can better understand and utilize the tools we offer. We strongly believe this open architecture approach benefits us and our clients.







•Scalable application platforms. We continue to make significant investments in our data centers and software services to provide highly scalable
solutions for the processing of large volumes of assets/portfolios. In doing so, we are able to offer clients computing grid capacity that they would otherwise not be able to economically access through internal development.



•Global products and operations. Our products cover most major investment markets throughout the world. For example, as of November 30,
2010, our MSCI Global Equity Indices included 76 countries, including, among others, those in our developed, emerging and frontier market categories; and we produced equity risk data for 45 single country models, models covering 29 European
countries and 14 Asia Pacific countries, and an integrated multi-asset class risk model that covered 59 equity markets and 48 fixed income markets. As of November 30, 2010, our clients were located in 78 countries and many of them have a
presence in multiple locations around the world. As of November 30, 2010, our employees were located in 19 countries in order to maintain close contact with our clients and the international markets we follow. We believe our global presence and
focus allow us to serve our clients well and capitalize on a great number of business opportunities in many countries and regions of the world.



•Highly skilled employees. Our workforce is highly skilled, technical and, in some instances, specialized. In particular, our research and
software application development departments include experts in advanced mathematics, statistics, finance, portfolio investment and software engineering, who combine strong academic credentials with market experience. As of November 30, 2010,
over 20 of our employees held doctorate degrees. Over 130 employees in our diverse global client coverage group held MBAs or other Masters degrees. Our employees’ experience and knowledge gives us access to, and allows us to add value at, the
highest levels of our clients’ organizations.



•Extensive historical databases. We have accumulated comprehensive databases of historical global market data, proprietary equity index and risk
data and governance data. We believe our substantial and valuable databases of proprietary index and risk data, including over 40 years of certain index data history, over 30 years of certain risk data history and over 15 years of certain historical
governance data, would be difficult and costly for another party to replicate. The information is not available from any single source and would require intensive data checking and quality assurance testing that we have performed over our many years
of accumulating this data. Historical data is a critical component of our clients’ investment processes, allowing them to research and back-test investment strategies and analyze portfolios over many investment and business cycles and under a
variety of historical situations and market environments.

Clients







and Core Retention Rates, see “Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Financial Metrics and Drivers—Retention
Rate.”

Revenues from our ten largest clients contributed a total of 27.4%, 27.3% and 28.6% of our total revenues for the
years ended November 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

In the years ended November 30, 2010 and 2009, our
largest client organization by revenue, BlackRock and its affiliates (“BlackRock”), accounted for 9.9% of our operating revenues. For the years ended November 30, 2010 and 2009, approximately 82.9% and 87.5% of our revenues from
BlackRock were attributable to fees based on the assets of ETFs linked to MSCI equity indices. On December 1, 2009, BlackRock, Inc. and Barclays PLC announced the completion of the merger between BlackRock, Inc. and Barclays Global Investors,
the Barclays PLC investment unit that includes the iShares exchange traded funds business. For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to revenues for the fiscal year 2009 attributable to BlackRock include revenues generated from
Barclays Plc and the Barclays Global Investors iShares exchange traded funds business.

Marketing

We market our products to investment institutions and service providers worldwide. See “—Clients” above. Our research and
product management teams seek to understand our clients’ investment process and their needs and design tools that help clients address them. Because of the sophisticated nature of our products, our main means of marketing is through
face-to-face meetings and 24-hour client support, as described in “—Sales and Client Support” below. These marketing and support efforts are supplemented by our website, our email newsletters, our client seminars, our participation in
industry conferences, our ongoing product consultations and research papers, and our public relations efforts.

Members of our
research team and other employees regularly speak at industry conferences, as well as at our own seminars. We hosted over 270 seminars, webinars, conferences and workshops in various locations across the globe in fiscal 2010. These seminars,
webinars, conferences and workshops bring our staff and our clients together, expose those clients to our latest research and product enhancements and give our staff an opportunity to gain insight into our clients’ needs. Our marketing
communications professionals also arrange interviews for our sales people in prominent industry journals and issue press releases on product developments and releases. We also communicate directly with both clients and prospective clients through
our email newsletters which deliver research, company news and product specific news to currently over 10,000 recipients who have opted to receive them. Our strategic marketing department collaborates with our product specialists to analyze our
clients’ use of our products and to analyze the competitive landscape for our products.

Sales and Client Support

As of November 30, 2010, our client coverage offices included approximately 270 sales people and 200 client support people worldwide.
Of these, over 90 were located in our New York headquarters and over 75 were located in our London office. In the last few years we have expanded our sales effort in two ways. We have opened client coverage offices in Budapest, Dubai, Mumbai,
Shanghai, Monterrey, Mexico and Boston, Chicago and Stamford. We have also created more teams dedicated solely to the needs of certain client types such as hedge funds, asset owners and broker dealers. In total, our sales and client support staff
was based in 32 offices around the world enabling us to provide valuable face-to-face client service.

Our sales people
service established clients and develop new ones. Our client support team provides 24-hour support five days a week to our clients as needed. We believe that the size, quality, knowledge and experience of our sales and client support staff, as well
as their proximity to clients, differentiate us from our competitors. Almost all of our sales and client support staff now operate in teams based on both client and product specialization. Our goal is to do this in all markets where we have
sufficient scale of business to permit it. Because of the sophisticated nature of our products and their uses, our sales and client support staff have strong







academic and financial backgrounds. Our sales people are compensated under a salary and bonus system and do not receive commissions, except that sales employees of RiskMetrics, including those in
the Governance business, prior to the acquisition who were compensated on a salary and commission basis continued to be so compensated for the year ended November 30, 2010.

The sales cycle for new clients varies based on the product. Because of the sophisticated nature of our products, most new sales require
several face-to-face meetings with the prospective client. Once the sales group has obtained a new client, the client is introduced to our client support team. For Barra and RiskMetrics-branded products, sales and client support personnel are
available to provide intensive on-site training in the use of the models, data and software application underlying each product. They also provide continuing support, which may include on-site visits, telephone support and routine client support
needed in connection with the use of the product, all of which are included in the recurring subscription fee.

Product Development and
Production

We take a coordinated team approach to product development and production. Our product management, research,
data operations and technology and software engineering departments are at the center of this process. Despite the challenging market environment, we remained committed to our product development and production efforts and, in some cases, increased
these efforts.

Utilizing a deep understanding of the investment process worldwide, our research department develops, reviews
and enhances our various methodologies and models. Our global data operations and technology team designs and manages our processes and systems for market data procurement, proprietary data production and quality control. Our software engineering
team builds our sophisticated software applications. As part of our product development process, we also commonly undertake extensive consultations with our clients and other market participants to understand their specific needs and investment
process requirements. Our product management team facilitates this collaborative product development and production approach.





•



Research







As of November 30, 2010, our governance research department consisted of over 150
employees. ISS’ policy board works to ensure ISS’ voting policies are developed and applied within a framework of corporate governance best practices. Each year, through an annual policy survey of our institutional clients and other
forums, institutional investors are invited to share their ideas on corporate governance issues including board structure, executive compensation, mergers and acquisitions and corporate accountability to ensure that our standard voting policies are
aligned with the views of our institutional clients. We currently have governance research offices in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Germany, Japan, France, the Philippines, Singapore, the U.K. and the U.S.



•Data Operations and Technology.As of November 30, 2010, our data operations and technology team consisted of more than 400 people in
eleven countries, and involved a combination of information technology and operations specialists. We licensed a large volume and variety of market data for every major market in the world, including fundamental and return data, from more than 190
third party sources in 2010. We apply our models and methodologies to this market data to produce our proprietary index and risk data. Our data operations and technology team oversees this complex process. Our experienced information technology
staff builds internal systems and proprietary software and databases that house all of the data we license or produce in order for our data operations and technology teams to perform data quality checks and run our data production systems. This data
factory produces our proprietary index data such as end of day and real time equity indices, and our proprietary risk data such as daily and monthly equity risk forecasts. Our data operations and technology team also performs certain data collection
and analysis functions in support of our ESG and Governance businesses. We have data operations and technology offices in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia.



•Software Engineering.Certain of our proprietary risk data are made available to clients through our proprietary software applications, such as
Barra Aegis, Barra Cosmos, BarraOne, RiskManager, HedgePlatform and WealthBench. As of November 30, 2010, our software engineering team consisted of over 172 individuals, including 5 who held Ph.Ds, with significant experience in both the
finance and software industries. Our staff has an extensive skill set, including expertise in both the Java-based technologies used in our web-based, on-demand software application tool for multi-asset class risk analysis and reporting and the
Microsoft-based technologies used in our desktop equity and fixed income analytics software products. We also have extensive experience with database technologies, computational programming techniques, scalability and performance analysis and tuning
and quality assurance. We use a customized software development methodology that leverages best practices from the software industry, including agile programming, test-driven development, parallel tracking, iterative cycles, prototyping and beta
releases. We build our software applications by compiling multiple components, which enables us to reuse designs and codes in multiple products. Our software development projects involve extensive collaboration with our product management team and
directly with clients. We have software engineering offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.

Our Competition

Many industry participants compete directly with us by offering one or more similar products. Our principal competitors on
a global basis for our MSCI Global Equity Index products are FTSE International, Ltd (a joint venture between The Financial Times, and The London Stock Exchange), Russell Investment Group (a unit of Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Group) and
Standard & Poor’s (a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.).

Additionally, we compete with equity index
providers whose primary strength is in a local market or region. These include CME Group Index Services, LLC (a joint venture company owned 90% by CME Group Inc. and 10% by Dow Jones & Company), Russell Investment Group and
Standard & Poor’s in the U.S.; STOXX Ltd. and the CAC index published by NYSE Euronext in Europe; and Nikkei Inc., Russell Investment Group, Nomura Securities, Ltd. and Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. in Japan. There are also many smaller
companies that create custom indices primarily for use as the basis of ETFs.







The principal competitors for our portfolio analytics products are Applied Portfolio
Technologies (a unit of Sunguard), Axioma, Inc., Capital IQ’s ClariFI, a Standard & Poor’s business, FactSet, Northfield Information Services, Inc., and Wilshire Analytics. In addition, our risk management analytics products
compete with firms such as BlackRock Inc.’s BlackRock Solutions unit, DST Systems Inc., FactSet, Fimalac S.A.’s Algorithmics unit, Moody Corporation’s KMV unit, and SunGard Data Systems Inc.

Additionally, many of the larger broker-dealers have developed proprietary risk management analytics tools for their clients. Similarly,
many investment institutions, particularly the larger global organizations, have developed their own internal risk management analytics tools. ISS competes with firms such as Broadridge Financial Solutions (which provides proxy voting services) and
Glass, Lewis & Co. (which provides research, voting recommendation and voting execution services). ISS also competes with local niche proxy voting and research providers in certain international markets.

For our other products where our revenues are less significant, we also have a variety of other competitors.

Employees

As of
November 30, 2010, the number of employees increased 1,199 to 2,077 from 878 on November 30, 2009. Approximately 87.2% of the increase was attributable to employees who joined the Company as part of the RiskMetrics and Measurisk
acquisitions. As of November 30, 2010, approximately 30.0% of our employees were located in emerging market centers.

None of our employees are represented by a union. The employees in our Monterrey, Mexico office are protected by a standard common
collective bargaining agreement that we have entered into with an independent organization. This agreement was renewed in January 2011. We are current on all of our employee-related obligations under this agreement and have never
experienced a walkout or strike.

Government Regulation

ISS is a registered investment advisor and must comply with the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and related SEC regulations. Such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure
obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. A subsidiary of ISS in Australia is also registered as an investment advisor with the Australian Financial Services Authority and must
comply with its applicable requirements.

Available Information

Our corporate headquarters are located at One Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, New York 10005, and our telephone number is
(212) 804-3900. We maintain an Investor Relations website on the Internet at www.msci.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this website, our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these, click on the “SEC Filings” link found on our Investor Relations homepage.

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials
we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an
internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.







