Item 1.Business

Overview

We are a
leading global provider of investment decision support tools, including indexes, portfolio risk and performance analytics and corporate governance products and services. Our products and services address multiple markets, asset classes and
geographies and are sold to a diverse client base, including asset owners, such as pension funds, endowments, foundations, central banks, family offices and insurance companies; institutional and retail asset managers, such as managers of pension
assets, mutual funds, exchange traded funds (“ETFs”), real estate, hedge funds and private wealth; financial intermediaries, such as banks, broker-dealers, exchanges, custodians and investment consultants; and corporate clients. As of
December 31, 2013, we had approximately 8,300 clients across 84 countries. We had offices in 34 cities in 22 countries to help serve our diverse client base, with 52.6% of our revenue from clients in the Americas, 35.5% in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa (“EMEA”) and 11.9% in Asia and Australia, based on revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. See “—Clients” below for an explanation of how we calculate our number of clients.

The Company consists of two industry leading businesses: the Performance and Risk business and the Governance business. Together, these
businesses offer what we believe is the most comprehensive suite of performance, risk management and corporate governance products and services available in our industry. See “—Company History” below.

Our Performance and Risk business is a leading global provider of investment decision support tools, including equity indexes, real
estate indexes and benchmarks, portfolio risk and performance analytics, credit analytics and environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) products. Our Performance and Risk products are used in many areas of the investment process,
including portfolio construction and rebalancing, performance benchmarking and attribution, risk management, regulatory and client reporting, index-linked investment product creation, asset allocation, the assessment of corporate management of ESG
risks and opportunities, investment manager selection and investment research.







Our Governance business is a leading provider of corporate governance products and services
to institutional investors and corporations around the world. Among other things, the Governance business facilitates the voting of proxies by institutional investors and provides in-depth research and analysis to help inform voting decisions and
identify issuer-specific risk. The Governance business offers both global equity security coverage and fully integrated products and services, including proxy voting; policy creation, application and management; research; vote recommendations; vote
execution; post-vote disclosure and reporting; and data and analytical tools. It also provides securities class action monitoring and claims filing services to aid institutional investors in the recovery of funds from securities class action
settlements. Within a firewall designed to separate it from the rest of the Governance business, a unit of the Governance business also provides products and services to corporate clients who may use those products and services to learn about and
improve their governance and executive compensation practices.

On October 31, 2013, we announced that we had engaged
Morgan Stanley to explore strategic alternatives for the Governance business, including the potential divestiture or other separation of the entire business. There can be no assurance that the process of exploring these strategic alternatives will
result in a transaction or that any transaction will ultimately be consummated. In addition, an adverse outcome from the pursuit of the strategic alternatives could lead to potential future impairment charges.

Our principal sales model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products and services for use at specified locations,
often by a given number of users or for a certain volume of services, for an annual fee paid up-front. For the year ended December 31, 2013, $860.7 million, or 83.1%, of our revenues was attributable to annual, recurring subscriptions. An
additional $149.5 million of our revenues came from clients who use our indexes as the basis for index-linked investment products such as ETFs. We also derived revenues from certain institutional clients that used our indexes as the basis for
passively managed funds and separate accounts. These clients commonly pay us a license fee for the use of our intellectual property based on the investment product’s assets. We generated a limited amount of our revenues from certain exchanges
that used our indexes as the basis for futures and options contracts and paid us a license fee for the use of our intellectual property based on their volume of trades. We also received revenues from one-time fees related to implementation,
customized reports, advisory and consulting services, overages relating to proxy research and voting services, licenses of historical data, fees relating to recovery of securities class action settlements and from certain products and services that
are designed for one-time usage.

Company History

We were a pioneer in developing the market for global equity index products and began licensing our first equity index products in 1969. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1998 and until we became a
public company in November 2007 our only two shareholders were Morgan Stanley and Capital Group International, Inc. (“Capital Group International”).

In June 2004, we acquired Barra, LLC (formerly Barra, Inc., “Barra”), a provider of portfolio risk analytics tools that launched its first risk analytics products in 1975, broadening our product
range beyond index products.

In November 2007, we completed an initial public offering (“IPO”) of 16.1 million
shares of our class A common stock. In connection with the IPO, we reclassified our outstanding common stock into shares of class A common stock and class B common stock and immediately following the IPO, Morgan Stanley and Capital Group
International held 81.0 million and 2.9 million shares of our class B common stock, respectively. Morgan Stanley and Capital Group International converted and sold their remaining shares of our class B common stock in subsequent registered
secondary equity offerings from May 2008 through May 2009. Although we began the transition to an independent, stand-alone public company at the time of our IPO in November 2007, we became a fully independent, stand-alone public company following
the May 2009 secondary offering. At MSCI’s annual shareholders meeting held on May 2, 2012, the shareholders approved amendments to the MSCI Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to (i) eliminate our authorized class B
common stock, (ii) increase the total







number of authorized shares of class A common stock by the aggregate number of shares of class B common stock being eliminated, (iii) rename the Company’s class A common stock as
“common stock” and (iv) make certain other conforming changes.

In July 2010, we
acquired Measurisk, LLC (“Measurisk”), a provider of risk transparency and risk measurement tools for hedge fund investors, to aid us in developing a broad platform and setting the standard for analyzing and reporting hedge fund risk in
response to our clients’ demands for increasing levels of transparency from their hedge fund managers.

In November 2012,
we acquired real estate performance measurement group IPD Group Limited (“IPD”). Headquartered in London, England with 9 offices around the world, IPD is a leading provider of real estate performance analysis for funds, investors,
managers, lenders and occupiers and offers a wide range of services that include research, reporting, benchmarking and indexes. The acquisition of IPD expands MSCI’s multi-asset class offering by facilitating the integration of private real
estate assets into our models, as well as adding a family of real estate indexes to MSCI’s family of equity indexes. Revenues attributable to IPD’s product offerings are included in our index and ESG products category.

In January 2013, we acquired Investor Force Holdings, Inc. (“InvestorForce”), a leading provider of performance reporting
solutions to the institutional investment community in the U.S., providing investment consultants with an integrated solution for daily monitoring, analysis of and reporting on institutional assets. Revenues attributable to InvestorForce’s
product offerings are included in our risk management analytics products category.

Over the course of more than 40 years, we
believe our organization has accumulated an in-depth understanding of the investment process worldwide. Based on this wealth of knowledge, we have created and continue to develop, enhance and refine sophisticated tools to meet the growing, complex
and diverse needs of our clients’ investment and governance processes. Our models and methodologies are the intellectual foundation of our business and include the innovative algorithms, formulas and analytical and quantitative techniques that
we use, together with market data, to produce our products. Our long history has allowed us to build extensive databases of proprietary index, risk and governance data, as well as accumulate valuable historical market data, which we believe would be
difficult to replicate and which provides us with a substantial competitive advantage.

Our revenues and the number of our
employees have grown significantly, both organically and through acquisitions, such as those described above. As we have grown, we have increased our operations outside of the United States. We currently have branches or subsidiaries located in the
following countries: Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Cayman Islands, Chile, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan,







Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, United Arab Emirates, the U.K. and the U.S.

Business Segments, Products and Services

We divide our business operations into two segments: the Performance and Risk business and the Governance business. Business segment revenue, segment income from operations and assets attributable to
foreign and domestic operations are set forth in Note 14, “Segment Information,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.

Performance and Risk Business Segment

Index and ESG Products

Our MSCI-branded global equity indexes are designed to measure returns available to investors across a wide variety of equity markets (e.g., Europe, Japan or emerging markets), sizes (e.g.,
small capitalization or large capitalization), styles (e.g., growth or value), industries (e.g., banks or media), strategies (e.g., factors) and themes (e.g.,economic exposure). Our IPD benchmarks are designed to measure
the performance and risk indicators of our clients against their peers. Our MSCI-branded ESG indexes are designed to help clients incorporate ESG factors into their investment processes. As of December 31, 2013, we calculated over 160,000
indexes daily.

In addition to delivering our products directly to our clients, as of December 31, 2013, there were more
than 65 third-party financial information and analytics software providers that distributed our various equity index products worldwide. The performance of our equity indexes is also frequently referenced when selecting investment managers,
assigning return benchmarks in mandates, comparing performance and providing market and academic commentary. The performance of certain of our equity indexes is reported on a daily basis in the financial media.

Our primary equity index products include:



•MSCI Global Equity Indexes. The MSCI Global Equity Indexes are our flagship index products. They are designed to measure returns available to
global investors across a variety of public equity markets.







As of December 31, 2013, the MSCI Global Equity Indexes provided broad equity market coverage for over 75 countries in our developed, emerging and frontier market categories, as well as
various regional and composite indexes built from the component country indexes, including the MSCI EAFE, MSCI World, MSCI ACWI IMI and MSCI Emerging Market Indexes. In addition, the MSCI Global Equity Indexes include industry indexes, value and
growth style indexes and large-, mid-, small- and micro-capitalization size segment indexes.

We believe that
the MSCI Global Equity Indexes are the most widely used benchmarks for cross-border equity funds. Various pension plans have announced their adoption of one of our broadest equity indexes, MSCI ACWI IMI, as the policy benchmark for their equity
portfolios. We also continue to enhance and expand successful product offerings as evidenced by the launch of new indexes (e.g., MSCI EM beyond BRIC Index and MSCI All Colombia Index) to be used as the basis for financial products such as
ETFs.



•MSCI Factor Indexes.The MSCI Factor Indexes (formerly Risk Premia) seek to address an emerging trend among institutional investors whose asset
allocation processes are gradually shifting from asset classes to risk groupings such as growth, income, inflation, volatility and liquidity. The MSCI Factor Indexes reflect the many equity return components that were once considered added value, or
alpha, but that can be attributed to sources of systematic return such as value, size, volatility, or momentum. Today, MSCI offers a wide array of such factor or alternative beta indexes, including the MSCI Minimum Volatility, Risk Weighted, Value
Weighted, Quality and Momentum Indexes as well as combinations of factor indexes, or multi-factor indexes such as the award-winning MSCI Quality Mix Indexes.



•MSCI Economic Exposure Products and Indexes.MSCI recently launched economic exposure data modules to provide clients with a systematic
framework for measuring global sources of revenue for each security across a portfolio or equity opportunity set. The economic exposure of companies can serve as a complementary or alternative definition of the country factor and can bring a new
dimension to enhance and support the construction, evaluation and risk management of global equity portfolios. Also, the MSCI Economic Exposure Indexes, which reflect the performance of companies with significant economic exposure to specific
regions or countries, may be relevant benchmarks for investors that face direct investment restrictions in certain markets or wish to increase their indirect allocations to targeted markets.



•MSCI Custom Indexes. In recent years we have significantly expanded our capabilities for calculating custom indexes. We currently calculate
approximately 6,500 custom indexes, which apply a client’s customization criteria to an existing MSCI index. Examples of customization criteria include currency, hedging, stock exclusions or special weighting. Custom indexes can reflect
specific investment criteria, such as socially responsible investment requirements or regulatory constraints; they can be used for back-testing strategies or developing specialized investment products, minimizing portfolio tracking error and
constructing index-linked products.



•MSCI ESG Indexes. The MSCI ESG Indexes allow clients to effectively benchmark ESG investment performance and manage, measure and report on their
compliance with ESG mandates, as well as to issue index-based ESG investment products. The MSCI ESG Indexes include Best-in-Class Indexes that integrate sustainability analysis into the investment process, Socially Responsible Indexes that take into
account certain values, norms or ethical standards, Environmental Indexes that focus on alternative energy or clean technology and Custom Indexes based on client ESG requirements.



•Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS®). GICS was
developed and is maintained jointly by MSCI and Standard & Poor’s Financial Services, LLC, a subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“Standard & Poor’s”). This classification system was designed to
respond to our clients’ needs for a comprehensive, consistent and accurate framework for classifying companies into industries. GICS is widely accepted as an industry analysis framework for investment research, portfolio management and asset
allocation. Our equity index products classify constituent securities according to GICS.







We also offer GICS Direct, a joint product of MSCI and Standard & Poor’s. GICS
Direct is a database of more than 43,400 active companies and more than 51,300 securities classified by sector, industry group, industry and sub-industry in accordance with proprietary GICS methodology.

Our primary ESG and IPD products are:



•MSCI ESG Research Products.MSCI ESG Research products and services help investors integrate ESG factors into their investment decisions.
Investors integrate ESG factors to better understand investment risk and opportunities and/or to align investment with a set of ESG values.

MSCI ESG Research products include screening and modeling tools that allow institutional investors and asset managers to: align investments with a set of ESG values such as perceptions of certain business
activities, religious views or international norms; generate buy/restricted lists of companies that meet those criteria; understand the implications of restrictions on portfolios; and examine company specific profiles. The tools also include the
ability to monitor a company’s adherence to internationally recognized norms and principles.

MSCI ESG Research products
also provide ESG ratings and analysis on thousands of companies worldwide. These industry based research reports are designed to identify and analyze key ESG issues for the industry, which may include the intersection of a corporations’ major
social and environmental impacts with its core business operations, thereby identifying potential risks and opportunities for the company and its investors.



•IPD Products.The IPD Portfolio Analysis Service (“PAS”) analyzes the strengths and weaknesses of a real estate portfolio’s
performance relative to its benchmark. We also offer income, management, fund level and cost benchmarking services. IPD market publications provide key real estate market analysis on countries, regions and sectors.

Risk Management Analytics Products

Our risk management analytics products offer a risk assessment framework for managing and monitoring investments in a variety of asset classes across an organization. The products are based on our
proprietary integrated fundamental multi-factor risk models, value-at-risk (“VaR”) methodologies and asset valuation models. They enable clients to identify, monitor, report and manage potential market risks, and to analyze portfolios and
systematically analyze risk and return across multiple asset classes, including equities, bonds, commodities, foreign exchange, futures, options, derivatives, alternative and private asset classes, structured products, interest-rate products and
credit products. Using these tools, clients can identify the drivers of market and credit risk across their investments, produce daily risk reports, run pre-trade analysis, perform what-if stress tests and simulation analysis and optimizations,
evaluate and monitor multiple asset managers and investment teams and assess correlations across a group of selected assets or portfolios.

We offer the following products in this area:



•RiskManager. RiskManager is an industry leader in VaR simulation and stress testing. Clients use RiskManager for daily analyzing, measuring and
monitoring of market risk at fund and firm levels, sensitivity and stress testing, interactive what-if analysis, and counterparty credit exposure. RiskManager is a highly scalable platform accessed by clients via a license to a secure, interactive
web-based application service, as an outsourced risk reporting service or as a web service in which a client’s systems access RiskMetrics’ core risk elements by connecting directly to our systems.



•BarraOne. BarraOne, powered by the Barra Integrated Model (“BIM”), provides clients with global, multi-asset class risk analysis using
Barra’s fundamental factor methodology. BarraOne also includes VaR simulation, stress testing, optimization and performance attribution modules that enable clients to manage multi-asset class portfolios, carry out risk allocation budgeting,
manager monitoring,







performance attribution and regulatory risk reporting. The product is accessed by clients via a secure, interactive web-based session, web services or on an outsourced basis.



•Hedge Fund Risk Transparency Solutions. HedgePlatform, a reporting service, and InterSight, an interactive web-based reporting service, allow
clients that invest in hedge funds, including funds of funds, pension funds and endowments, to measure, evaluate and monitor the risk of their hedge fund investments across multiple hedge fund strategies. We collect position-level information from
hedge funds on a monthly basis and provide our clients with risk information for each individual hedge fund in which they invest as well as aggregate risk information for their overall portfolio of hedge funds. Our clients who use RiskManager to
measure the risk of their own holdings can further integrate the positions collected via our HedgePlatform and InterSight services to allow computation of risk across their entire portfolio, while the confidential and proprietary nature of the
underlying hedge fund holdings is maintained. HedgePlatform and InterSight reports include statistics such as exposure (e.g., long, short, net and gross), sensitivities, scenario analysis, stress tests and VaR analysis.



•DataMetrics.DataMetrics is a data service that allows clients to access the market data embedded in RiskManager for use in their own
proprietary or other third-party systems. In addition to direct access to market data, DataMetrics can provide clients with customized data processing services.



•WealthBench.WealthBench is an investment planning platform for private banks, financial advisors, brokerages and trust companies. WealthBench
assists users in delivering informed, tailored investment planning proposals for high net worth individuals reflecting their needs, goals and risk tolerances while remaining consistent with firm-driven investment and risk-based policies. WealthBench
incorporates robust analytics, market-consistent inputs and transparent methodologies.



•InvestorForce. Our InvestorForce products offer performance reporting solutions to the institutional investment community in the U.S. by
providing investment consultants with an integrated solution for daily monitoring, analysis of and reporting on institutional assets. InvestorForce products also offer clients access via a web portal to their rich database of information including
portfolio analytics and transaction and holdings information, which is updated in real time as data is collected from custodial banks and fund managers.



•CreditManager. Our CreditManager product is a portfolio credit risk management system used primarily by banks to calculate economic capital,
facilitate risk-based pricing and measure credit risk concentrations. The application is designed to consolidate and compare risks and opportunities across multiple credit exposures including bonds, credit derivatives and traditional lending.

Portfolio Management Analytics Products

Our Barra-branded equity portfolio management analytics products are designed to assist investment professionals in analyzing and managing
risks and returns for equities at both the asset and portfolio level in developed, emerging and frontier equity markets. Barra equity models identify and analyze the factors that influence equity asset returns and risk. Our most widely used Barra
equity products utilize our fundamental multi-factor equity risk model data to help our clients construct, analyze, optimize and manage portfolios. Our multi-factor models identify factors that influence stock price movements, such as industry and
style characteristics, based on market and fundamental data. The proprietary risk data available in our products identify an asset’s or a portfolio’s sensitivities to these factors. In 2013, we introduced an innovative approach to risk
modeling, Systematic Equity Strategies (“SES”), a rules-based implementation of investment strategies and anomalies. When used as a complement to traditional equity risk factors in risk models, SES can help better explain sources of risk
and return.

Our global equity models include the following:



•Barra Global Equity Model (“GEM3”).GEM3 is a multi-factor risk model designed for use in global equity portfolio management and
construction. It uses a set of factors that explain the sources of global equity risk and returns.







•BIM.BIM provides a detailed view of risk across markets and asset classes, including currencies, equities, fixed income assets, commodities,
mutual fund assets and hedge fund assets. It begins by identifying the factors that affect the returns of many asset classes, including equity and fixed income securities and currencies. These factors are then combined into a single global model
that can forecast the risk of multi-asset class global portfolios.

Our single country and regional risk
models include the following:



•Barra Single Country Equity Models.Our single country equity models identify a set of factors to explain sources of risk and return of
portfolios in that country. Examples include the Barra US Equity Model (“USE4”) which models risk for U.S. equity assets and portfolios and the Barra UK Equity Model (“UKE7”) which models risk for United Kingdom equity assets and
portfolios.



•Barra Regional Equity Models. We produce two regional equity models, the Europe Equity Model (“EUE4”) and the Asia-Pacific Equity
Model (“ASE1”). These models are designed to be used across a broad range of applications and are available in different versions to reflect local and regional commonalities, as well as short-term and long-term investment horizons.

When assigning investment mandates to asset managers, institutional asset owners often prescribe investment
restrictions for portfolio risk and tracking error that are measured, reported and monitored using Barra products. Our clients can use our portfolio analytics by installing our proprietary software applications and equity risk data in their
technology platforms, by accessing our software applications and risk data via the Internet, by integrating our equity risk data into their own applications or through third-party applications, like those provided by FactSet Research Systems Inc.
(“FactSet”), which have incorporated our equity risk data and analytics into their offerings.

Our primary portfolio
analytics products are:



•Barra Aegis. Barra Aegis is a sophisticated software application for equity risk management and portfolio analysis that is powered by our
proprietary equity risk data. It is deployed by the client as a desktop application. Barra Aegis is an integrated suite of equity investment analytics modules, specifically designed to help clients actively manage their equity risk against their
expected returns. It also enables clients to construct optimized portfolios based on client-specified expectations and constraints.

Barra Aegis also provides a factor-based performance attribution module which allows clients to analyze realized returns relative to risk factors by sectors, styles, currencies and regions. Barra
Aegis’s tools also help clients identify returns attributable to stock selection skills. Additionally, using Barra Aegis’s advanced automation tools, clients can back-test their portfolio construction strategies over time.



•Barra Portfolio Manager. Barra Portfolio Manager is an integrated risk and performance platform that is designed to help fund managers and their
teams gain additional portfolio insight, manage a more systematic investment process and make faster, more informed investment decisions. The hosted interactive user interface allows users to construct portfolios and back-test their strategies
using the Barra Optimizer. It also allows users to decompose the risk and attribute the return of their portfolios according to Barra models. The platform supports optional data management services that allow users to outsource the loading and
reconciliation of their portfolio and other proprietary data.



•Barra Equity Models Direct. Barra Equity Models Direct delivers our proprietary risk data to clients for integration into their own software
applications. The proprietary risk data in Barra Equity Models Direct is also available via third-party providers. We offer the proprietary risk data from global, regional and single country Barra risk models and most of these models are available
in short-term and long-term time horizons so that clients can select the risk data that best suits their investment processes.







Energy and Commodity Analytics Products

Our Energy and Commodity Analytics products are software applications that offer a variety of quantitative analytics tools for valuing,
modeling and facilitating the hedging of physical assets and derivatives across a number of market segments including energy and commodity assets. These products are used by investors, traders and those hedging investments in these asset classes.
The software applications are not provided with any market data or proprietary index or risk data. These products are typically branded “FEA” and include products such as FEA@Energy, FEA VaRworks and FEA StructureTool.

Governance Segment

Our Governance business is a leading provider of corporate governance products and services to institutional investors and corporations around the world. Following the disposition of our Financial
Research and Analysis (“FR&A”) product line on March 31, 2013, we categorized our Governance business into two distinct categories: (i) Proxy Research and Voting, Data & Analytics, Global Proxy Distribution
(“GPD”) and Securities Class Action Services (“SCAS”) and (ii) ISS Corporate Services. The pricing model for our Governance business’ products and services is primarily subscription-based and varies depending on the
product or service purchased.

Proxy Research and Voting, Data & Analytics, GPD and SCAS

Our Proxy Research and Voting, Data & Analytics, GPD and SCAS products are designed to provide proxy services, including data,
proxy voting and in-depth research and analysis to help inform voting decisions and assess issuer-specific risk, to institutional investors globally. ISS is the largest proxy advisory firm that offers a fully-integrated, end-to-end proxy voting
service, including policy creation, comprehensive research, vote recommendations, vote execution and reporting and analytical tools. During 2013, Proxy Research and Voting, Data & Analytics, GPD and SCAS accounted for 68.8% of revenues
attributable to our Governance business.

Our primary product categories are:



•Proxy Research and Voting. Through its ProxyExchange platform, ISS provides clients with vote recommendations, comprehensive analyses and online
voting capabilities that enable users to make informed decisions about how to vote on all items with respect to each shareholder meeting agenda related to their portfolio holdings, execute their votes and monitor and track their votes for reporting
purposes. Built on the ProxyExchange platform and launched late in 2013, ISS’s Policy Engine application provides clients with tools for enhancing the transparency of voting policies and improving control over the design and application of
their own voting policies.

Research coverage is currently provided on approximately 5,700 U.S.-based
companies and more than 33,000 non-U.S. companies. ISS’s research and recommendations are based on benchmark, specialized and client-specific custom policies. ISS’s benchmark policies are designed to serve as an industry standard and best
practice guide to corporate governance and are developed with the input of institutional clients and industry professionals around the world. In addition to our benchmark policies, we recognize that the philosophies and policies used to make proxy
voting decisions range widely among different types of investors. By understanding the diverse needs of our clients, we are able to create policies that meet their requirements through a number of specialized policies such as SRI policies based on
environmentally and socially responsible guidelines and ISS’s Taft-Hartley policy which is based on guidelines of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations. For many institutional investors with highly
specialized or unique needs for proxy research and policy guidelines, we frequently provide custom proxy advisory services in which we work with our clients to develop and refine governance policy guidelines that match their particular views and are
unique to them. Additionally, ISS’s M&A Edge research service provides independent, in-depth research analysis that focuses specifically on proposed merger and acquisition deals and proxy







contests to inform institutional investors. It also delivers ongoing deal notes that keep users abreast of key events as the deal or contest evolves and analyzes key aspects of a transaction,
including strategic rationale, corporate governance and shareholder rights issues.

ISS’s proxy voting services include
notifying clients of upcoming shareholder meetings, receiving proxy ballots from third-party proxy distributors, generating consolidated proxy ballots and vote instructions across its clients’ portfolios, executing its clients’ votes in
accordance with their instructions, maintaining voting records and providing comprehensive vote reporting.



•Data & Analytics.As governance plays a heightened role in investment decision-making, investors are increasingly using ISS data and
analytics to support their analysis. Accordingly, in February of 2013, ISS introduced Governance QuickScore, the first in a series of ISS QuickScore products intended to identify risk within portfolio companies. ISS Governance QuickScore provides
high-level scoring and individual datapoints on corporate audit, board and compensation practices and shareholder rights, which is used by both the institutional investor and corporate communities as a yardstick for measuring governance.



•Global Proxy Distribution Services (“GPD”). Our GPD service offers a complete global proxy distribution solution to custodian
banks for non-U.S. securities through a single independent platform. GPD provides for the efficient distribution and voting of proxies giving clients the ability to review and download detailed meeting information and individualized account
information. GPD also provides online access to customized record-keeping and reporting across all custodians and sub-custodians.



•Securities Class Action Services (“SCAS”). We deliver a complete securities class action monitoring and claims filing service to
institutional investors who have potential recovery rights in securities class action lawsuits. We provide an extensive securities litigation database, including historical and current case information, and provide fully-outsourced notification,
tracking and claims filing services to our institutional clients. Our relationships with claims administrators and law firms around the world enable us to inform clients of new cases in global markets. Combined with our global operations, SCAS
offers a streamlined, cost-effective research and filing solution for our clients.

SCAS offers more detailed
portfolio specific views of cases and settlements with an online database that allows clients to keep track of the complete securities class action lifecycle, from when a case is first identified until payment is disbursed. Securities class action
data provided to our clients through our RecoverMax platform include class periods, settlement dates, status reports, award amounts, claim deadline dates, claims administrator details and pertinent related data.

ISS Corporate Services

Our ISS Corporate Services products and services are designed to help clients reduce risk and build shareholder value through strong governance programs by leveraging our expertise in the areas of
executive compensation, governance-related risk identification, capital structure, voting trends and corporate governance research. ISS Corporate Services tools, data and advisory services help clients to design, manage and measure their corporate
governance programs. During 2013, revenues related to our ISS Corporate Services products and services represented 29.2% of our Governance business total revenues.

Our primary ISS Corporate Services products and services include:



•Compensation Data and Analytics. We provide a set of turnkey products and services that enable compensation and governance professionals to
enhance compensation plan design and communication of compensation programs by modeling, analyzing and benchmarking executive compensation and equity plans. Our ExecComp Analytics product provides historical data, benchmarking and analytics on
executive compensation and pay for performance. Compass is a web-based tool enabling clients to







model the cost of equity compensation plans and determine optimal equity plan design. Our flagship product is the ExecComp Suite, which includes our ExecComp Analytics product and ongoing
benchmarking of equity plan value transfer, burn rates, and dilution. It also provides access to experienced and dedicated compensation plan analysts and support in modeling the cost of equity compensation plans and determining optimal compensation
plan design.



•Governance Suite. The Governance Suite provides online analytics to enable governance professionals to more effectively manage their corporate
governance programs by utilizing governance benchmarking tools, databases of shareholder meeting results and mutual fund proxy voting records, and accessing ISS governance research and publications. Subscribers of Governance Suite also have access
to Governance Exchange, which provides a diverse range of corporate governance viewpoints and research through webcasts, white papers, surveys and expert analysis. Governance Suite also provides access to experienced and dedicated governance
analysts and support in benchmarking governance practices and understanding trends and best practices.



•Proxy Research and Publications. Proxy Research and Publications offers a searchable database of publications, research articles and online
reports designed to help corporate secretaries, investor relations professionals, executives, directors and other professionals access ISS research reports and other corporate governance-related information. Through an alerts service, users of Proxy
Research and Publications also receive the latest proxy research reports released for their company or peer companies, and can opt to be alerted when proxy research reports containing specific proposal types are released.

On October 31, 2013, we announced that we had engaged Morgan Stanley to explore strategic alternatives
for the Governance business, including the potential divestiture or other separation of the entire business. There can be no assurance that the process of exploring these strategic alternatives will result in a transaction or that any transaction
will ultimately be consummated. In addition, an adverse outcome from the pursuit of the strategic alternatives could lead to potential future impairment charges.

Growth Strategy

We have grown in recent years with operating revenues and
operating income increasing by 9.0% and 7.1%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012, and by 5.5% and 7.7%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the
year ended December 31, 2011.

We believe we are well-positioned for growth over time and have a multi-faceted growth
strategy that builds on our strong client relationships, products, brands and integral role in the investment process. Set forth below are the principal elements of our strategy to grow our Company and meet the increasing needs of our clients for
investment decision support tools:



•Client Growth. We believe there are opportunities to increase the number of users and locations and the number of products we license to
existing client organizations, and to obtain new clients in both existing and new geographic markets and client types worldwide. We intend to:



•Increase product subscriptions within our current client base.Many of our clients use only one or a limited number of our products, and we
believe there are opportunities to sell new modules and capabilities to our existing clients. We believe our deep knowledge of our clients and our familiarity with their investment processes enable us to license these additional products to our
clients. In 2013, 76.3% of our sales consisted of upsells to our existing clients.



•Expand client base.We seek to add new clients by expanding our sales efforts and by increasing our marketing investment. We are also expanding
our geographic presence to take advantage of the liberalization of markets in additional countries. In recent years, for







example, we have opened new sales and client coverage offices in Seoul, Korea and Taipei, Taiwan and expanded our sales presence in China and the Middle East. In 2013, we also significantly
increased the number of client coverage and sales people in Canada, the Philippines and the U.S., and in 2014 we have opened a sales office in Santiago, Chile. We believe that these new sales efforts will enable us to leverage our brand
strength, product reach and access to the global investment community to attract new clients.

We are also
making investments that will enable us to target new client segments, including smaller asset managers and hedge funds, financial advisors and insurance firms by expanding our dedicated sales efforts with respect to these client segments and
developing new products designed to meet their needs.



•Increase licensing of indexes for ETFs and other exchange traded investment products. We believe that there is potential for continued growth
and expansion in the ETF market in the future, and we will continue to pursue opportunities to increase licensing of our indexes for index-linked investment products to capitalize on their growth in number and variety. The MSCI brand continues to
play an important role in the choice of index provider. In a 2013 report by Greenwich Associates (“Institutional Investors’ Relationship with ETFs Deepens”, May 2013), we were named the “benchmark of choice” for
international equity ETFs. The table below illustrates the growth trend with respect to the number of exchange listings of ETFs linked to MSCI equity indexes.

Number of Exchange Listings of ETFs Linked to MSCI Equity Indexes



As ofRegionDecember 31,2013December 31,2012December 31,2011Americas190186150EMEA381365348Asia363026Total607581524

Historical values of the assets in ETFs linked to our indexes are set forth in a table under the section
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Results of Operations—Year Ended December 31, 2013 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012—Operating Revenues” below.



•Product Development. We plan to develop new product offerings and continue to enhance our existing products. Much of our product development is
based on an ongoing and active dialogue with clients, which helps us to understand their needs and anticipate market developments.



•Create innovative new product offerings and enhancements.In order to maintain and enhance our leadership position, we plan to introduce
innovative new products and enhancements to existing products. We believe that the integration of product platforms, research, including the development of new models, enhanced client customization capabilities, and the introduction of new ESG and
governance products will increase the competitiveness of our Company. For example, the addition of IPD’s database of real estate information has the potential to enhance MSCI’s risk and performance management analytics products.



•Expand our capacity to design and develop new products. We intend to increase our investment in product development teams, new model research,
data production systems, technology infrastructure and software application design to enable us to design and develop







new products more quickly and cost-effectively. Increasing our ability to process additional models and data, and design and code software applications more effectively, will allow us to respond
faster to client needs and bring new products and product enhancements to the market more quickly.



•Growth through acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek to acquire products, technologies and companies, such as IPD and InvestorForce, that
will enhance, complement or expand our product offerings and client base, as well as increase our ability to provide investment decision support tools to equity, fixed income and multi-asset class investment institutions, and the financial
intermediaries that service such institutions.

Competitive Advantages

We believe our competitive advantages include the following:



•Strong client relationships and deep understanding of client needs.Our consultative approach to product development, dedication to client
support and our range of products have helped us build strong relationships with investment institutions around the world. We believe the skills, knowledge and experience of our research, applications development, global sales, data management and
production and product management teams enable us to develop and enhance our models, methodologies, data and software applications in accordance with client demands and needs. We consult with our clients and other market participants during the
product development process to take into account their actual investment process requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we had an Aggregate Retention Rate of 91.3%. See Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Financial Metrics and Drivers—Operating Metrics—Retention Rates” for the definition of Aggregate Retention Rate and more detailed retention rate data.



•Client reliance on our products. Many of our clients have come to rely on our products in their investment management processes, integrating our
products into their performance measurement and risk management processes, where they become an integral part of their daily portfolio management functions. In certain cases, our clients are requested by their customers to report using our tools or
data. Additionally, our tools can help clients comply with local regulations or client reporting requirements. Consequently, we believe that certain of our clients may experience business disruption and additional costs if they choose to cease using
or replace our products.



•Strong brand recognition. Our global equity indexes and ESG products and services are marketed under the MSCI and MSCI ESG Research brands; our
portfolio risk and performance analytics covering global equity and fixed income are marketed under the Barra brand; our multi-asset class, market and credit risk analytics are marketed under the RiskMetrics and Barra brands; our performance
reporting products and services offered to the investment consultant community are marketed under the InvestorForce brand; our energy and commodity asset valuation analytics are marketed under the FEA brand; our private real estate benchmarks are
marketed under the IPD brand; and our corporate governance products and services are marketed under the ISS brand. These brands are well-established and recognized throughout the investment community worldwide. Our brand strength reflects the
longstanding quality and widespread use of our products. We believe our products are well-positioned to be the tools of choice for investment institutions increasingly looking to third-party products and services for help with benchmarking,
index-linked product creation and portfolio risk management and for corporate clients for help with governance practices.



•Global products and operations. Our products cover most major investment markets throughout the world. For example, our MSCI Global Equity
Indexes provide broad equity market coverage for over 75 countries in our developed, emerging and frontier market categories; and we produce equity risk data for single country models, regional equity models and an integrated multi-asset







class risk model covering equity markets and fixed income markets. As of December 31, 2013, our clients were located in 84 countries and many of them have a presence in multiple locations
around the world. As of December 31, 2013, our employees were located in 22 countries in order to maintain close contact with our clients and the international markets we follow. We believe our global presence and focus allow us to serve our
clients well and capitalize on a great number of business opportunities in many countries and regions of the world.



•Sophisticated models with practical application. We have invested significant time and resources for more than three decades in developing
highly sophisticated and practical index methodologies and risk models that combine financial theory and investment practice. We enhance our existing models to reflect the evolution of markets and to incorporate methodological advances in risk
forecasting. New models and major enhancements to existing models are reviewed by our model review committee.



•Open architecture and transparency. We have an open architecture philosophy. Clients can access our data through our software applications,
third-party applications or their own applications. We also recognize that the marketplace is complex and that a competitor in one context may be a supplier or distributor in another context. For example, Standard & Poor’s competes
with us in index products, supplies index data that we distribute in our portfolio analytics software products and jointly developed and maintains GICS and GICS Direct with us. In order to provide transparency, we document and disclose many
details of our models and methodologies to our clients so that they can better understand and utilize the tools we offer. We believe this open architecture approach benefits us and our clients.



•Scalable application platforms. We continue to make significant investments in our data centers, technology platform and software products to
provide highly scalable solutions for the processing of large volumes of asset and portfolio data. In doing so, we are able to offer clients computing capacity that they would otherwise not be able to economically access through internal
development.



•Highly skilled employees. Our workforce is highly skilled, technical and, in some instances, specialized. In particular, our research and
software application development departments include experts in advanced mathematics, statistics, finance, portfolio investment and application development, who combine strong academic credentials with market experience. Our employees’
experience and knowledge give us access to, and allow us to add value at, the highest levels of our clients’ organizations.



•Extensive historical databases. We have accumulated extensive databases of historical global market data, proprietary equity index data, private
real estate benchmark data, risk data, ESG data and governance data. We believe our substantial and valuable databases of proprietary index and risk data, including over 40 years of certain index data history, nearly 40 years of certain risk data
history and over 15 years of certain historical governance data, would be difficult and costly for another party to replicate. The information is not available from any single source and would require intensive data checking and quality assurance
testing that we have performed over our many years of accumulating this data. Historical data is a critical component of our clients’ investment processes, allowing them to research and back-test investment strategies and analyze portfolios
over many investment and business cycles and under a variety of historical situations and market environments.

Clients

For the year ended December 31, 2013, we served approximately 8,300 clients across 84 countries worldwide with 52.6%
of revenue from our client base in the Americas, 35.5% in EMEA and 11.9% in Asia and Australia. Our clients include asset owners such as pension funds, endowments, foundations, central banks, family offices and insurance companies; institutional and
retail asset managers, such as managers of pension







assets, mutual funds, ETFs, real estate, hedge funds and private wealth; and financial intermediaries such as banks, broker-dealers, exchanges, custodians and investment consultants. To calculate
the number of clients, we may count certain affiliates and business units within a single organization as separate clients. For example, the asset management and broker-dealer units of a diversified financial services firm may be treated as
separate clients, even though the financial services firm is the only party to the applicable subscriptions or licenses.

Our Aggregate Retention Rates were 91.3% and 89.7% for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our Core Retention
Rates were 91.6% and 90.4% for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. For a description of the calculation of our Aggregate and Core Retention Rates, see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Financial Metrics and Drivers—Operating Metrics—Retention Rates.”

Revenues from our ten largest clients contributed a total of 23.5%, 25.0% and 25.8% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 respectively.

In the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, our largest client organization by revenue, BlackRock, Inc. and its
affiliates (“BlackRock”), accounted for 8.8%, 7.6% and 8.1% of our operating revenues, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 87.0%, 81.7% and 83.9% of our revenues from BlackRock were attributable to fees
based on the assets of ETFs linked to MSCI equity indexes, including its iShares ETF business.

Marketing

We market our products to investment institutions, financial service providers, financial advisors and corporations worldwide. See
“—Clients” above. Our research and product management teams seek to understand our clients’ investment and governance processes and their needs and to design tools that help clients effectively and efficiently address them.
Because of the sophisticated nature of our products, our main means of marketing is through face-to-face meetings, hosted events, targeted campaigns and 24-hour client support, as described in “—Sales and Client Support” below. These
marketing and support efforts are supplemented by our website, our email newsletters, our client events, our participation in industry conferences, our ongoing product consultations and research papers, and our public relations efforts. Our
strategic marketing department collaborates with our product specialists to analyze our clients’ use of our products and to analyze the competitive landscape for our products.

Members of our research team and other employees regularly speak at industry conferences, as well as at our own events. For example, we
hosted over 500 seminars, webinars, conferences and workshops in various locations across the globe in fiscal 2013. These seminars, webinars, conferences and workshops bring our staff and our clients together, expose those clients to our latest
research and product enhancements and give our staff an opportunity to gain insight into our clients’ needs. Our marketing communications professionals also arrange interviews for our industry and product experts in prominent financial and
trade media and issue press releases from time to time on client wins, new research and product developments. We also communicate directly with both clients and prospective clients through our email newsletters which deliver research, company news
and product specific news. Our strategic marketing department collaborates with our product specialists to analyze our clients’ use of our products and to analyze the competitive landscape for our products. We also supplement these direct
marketing efforts with targeted online advertising and co-branding initiatives with some of our major clients.

Sales and Client Support

As of December 31, 2013, our client coverage offices included nearly 235 sales people and over 250 client support
people worldwide. Of these, over 85 were located in our New York offices and over 65 were located in our London office. In the last few years we have expanded our sales efforts to grow our revenues and our client







service efforts to ensure client satisfaction and develop client loyalty. In recent years, for example, we have opened new sales and client coverage offices in Seoul, Korea and Taipei, Taiwan and
expanded our sales presence in China and the Middle East. In 2013, we also significantly increased the number of client coverage and sales people in Canada, the Philippines and the U.S., and in 2014 we have opened a sales office in
Santiago, Chile. We have also created more specialized sales and client support teams to increase our impact in each client segment, namely hedge funds, asset owners, financial advisors, private wealth managers and broker dealers. In the
Americas, we also increased our focus on smaller asset managers and hedge funds, financial advisors and insurance firms. Our sales and client support staff are based in 29 offices around the world enabling us to provide valuable face-to-face client
service and focus efforts on developing new clients in more locations.

The sophisticated nature of our products and their
uses demand a sales and client support staff with strong academic and financial backgrounds. Most new sales require several face-to-face meetings with the prospective client and the sales process for large and complex sales is likely to involve
a team from sales, client support, product management and research. For Barra and RiskMetrics branded products, sales and client support personnel are available to onboard new clients and new users, which includes, providing intensive on-site
training in the use of the models, data and software applications underlying each product. Client support also provides ongoing support, which may include on-site visits, telephone and e-mail support 24 hours, five days a week and routine client
support needed in connection with the use of the product or how it can help clients improve their process, all of which are included in the recurring subscription fee. We believe that the size, quality, knowledge and experience of our sales and
client support staff, as well as their proximity to clients, differentiate us from our competitors.

Product Development and Production

We take a coordinated team approach to product development and production. Our product management, research, data
operations and technology and application development departments are at the center of this process. Despite the challenging market environment, we remained committed to our product development and production efforts and, in some cases, increased
these efforts.

Utilizing a deep understanding of the investment process worldwide, our research department develops, reviews
and enhances our various methodologies and models. Our global data operations and technology team designs and manages our processes and systems for market data procurement, proprietary data production and quality control. Our application development
team builds our sophisticated software applications. As part of our product development process, we also commonly undertake extensive consultations with our clients and other market participants to understand their specific needs and investment
process requirements. Our product management team facilitates this collaborative product development and production approach.



•Research.Our models are developed by a cross-functional research team of mathematicians, economists, statisticians, financial engineers and
investment industry experts. Our index and risk and analytics research departments combine extensive academic credentials with broad financial and investment industry experience. They work on both developing new models and methodologies and
enhancing existing ones. We monitor investment trends and their drivers globally, as well as analyze product-specific needs in areas such as capitalization-weighted, factor and specialized indexes, as well as instrument valuation, risk modeling,
portfolio construction, asset allocation and value-at-risk simulation. An important way we monitor global investment trends and their implications for our business is through the forum provided by our Editorial Advisory Board (“EAB”). Our
EAB, which was established in 1999, meets twice a year and is comprised of senior investment professionals from around the world and senior members of our performance and risk research team. In 2013, our index and risk and analytics researchers
participated in numerous industry events and conferences, and their papers have been published in leading academic and industry journals. In 2013, we hosted the MSCI Client Summits, annual investment and risk management conferences, which took place
in New York, London, Sacramento and Bangkok, where our researchers presented their current work, research papers







and projects to senior professionals from client organizations. They also play a leading role in many of the seminars, workshops and webinars we host throughout the year, presenting and
discussing their latest research findings with both clients and prospective clients.

Within the governance
research department, ISS’s policy board works to ensure ISS’s voting policies are developed and applied within a framework of corporate governance best practices. Each year, ISS solicits broad feedback from multiple constituencies,
including through an annual policy survey of our institutional clients and other investors, corporations, and other market participants, to assess opinions on emerging topics and practices. Direct outreach with institutional investors, corporate
board members, and executives is then done through multiple and geographically diverse channels, including in-person and telephonic roundtables. Participants are invited to share their perspectives on corporate governance issues, including board
structure, executive compensation, mergers and acquisitions and corporate accountability to ensure that our standard voting policies are aligned with the views of our institutional clients. Those discussions result in the creation of draft policies
for the coming year, which are then published for public comment before being finalized. ISS’s engagement with key governance stakeholders continues year round through in-person meetings, speaking engagements and other channels.



•Data Operations and Information Technology.Our data operations and technology teams consist of a combination of operations and information
technology specialists. We licensed a large volume and variety of market data for every major market in the world, including fundamental and return data, from more than 200 third party sources in 2013. We apply our models and methodologies to this
market data to produce our proprietary risk and index data. Our data operations team oversees this complex process. Our experienced information technology staff builds proprietary software and databases that house all of the data we license or
produce in order for our data operations team to perform data quality checks and run our data production systems. This data factory produces our proprietary index data such as end of day and real time equity indexes, ESG indexes, real estate
benchmarks, and our proprietary risk data such as daily and monthly equity risk forecasts, IPD performance and risk reporting and MSCI ESG Research reports. We have data operations and technology offices in North America, Europe and Asia.



•Application Development.Certain of our proprietary risk data are made available to clients through our proprietary software applications, such
as Barra Aegis, BarraOne, RiskManager, HedgePlatform, WealthBench, Credit Manager and ESG Manager. Our application development team consists of individuals with significant experience in both the finance and software industries. Our staff has an
extensive skill set, including expertise in both the Java-based technologies used in our web-based, on-demand software application tool for multi-asset class risk analysis and reporting and Microsoft-based technologies used in our desktop equity and
fixed income analytics software products. We also have extensive experience with database technologies, computational programming techniques, scalability and performance analysis and quality assurance. We use a customized software development
methodology that leverages best practices from the software industry, including agile programming, test-driven development, parallel tracking, iterative cycles, prototyping and beta releases. We build our software applications by compiling multiple
components, which enables us to reuse designs and codes in multiple products. Our software development projects involve extensive collaboration with our product management team and directly with clients. We have application development offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.

Our Competition

Many industry participants compete directly with us by offering one or more similar products. Our principal competitors on a global basis for our MSCI Global Equity Index products are FTSE International,
Ltd. (a subsidiary of The London Stock Exchange), Russell Investment Group (a unit of Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Group) and S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC (a joint venture company owned 24.4% by CME Group through its affiliates, 2.6%
indirectly by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. and 73.0% by The McGraw-Hill







Companies, Inc.) (“S&P Dow Jones”). Additionally, we compete with equity index providers whose primary strength is in a local market or region. These include S&P Dow Jones,
Russell Investment Group and the Center for Research in Securities Prices (CRSP) in the U.S.; S&P/TSX index published by S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC in Canada, the CAC index published by NYSE Euronext, the DAX and STOXX Ltd. in Europe; the
Bovespa Index in Brazil; the Korea Stock Exchange Kospi Index in Korea; China Securities Index Co., Ltd. in China; the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong; a strategic partnership between CME Group and Singapore Exchange Limited in Singapore; and Nikkei
Inc., Nomura Securities, Ltd., Russell Investment Group, and Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. in Japan. There are also many smaller companies that create indexes primarily for use as the basis of ETFs.

The principal competitors for our portfolio analytics products are Advanced Portfolio Technologies (a unit of SunGard), Axioma, Inc.,
Bloomberg Finance L.P., Capital IQ’s ClariFI (a Standard & Poor’s business), FactSet, Northfield Information Services, Inc., Style Research Inc. and Wilshire Analytics.

Our risk management analytics products compete with firms such as Algorithmics (a unit of IBM), Barclays Capital, BlackRock Solutions (a
unit of BlackRock), FactSet, Imagine Software, KMV (a unit of Moody’s Corporation) and SunGard Data Systems Inc. Additionally, many of the larger broker-dealers have developed proprietary risk management analytics tools for their clients.
Similarly, many investment institutions, particularly the larger global organizations, have developed their own internal risk management analytics tools.

ISS’s institutional business competes with firms such as Glass, Lewis & Co. in proxy research and voting, as well as Broadridge Investor Communications Solutions, Inc.
(“Broadridge”) in proxy distribution. ISS also competes with local proxy voting and research providers in certain international markets. ISS Corporate Services competes with Equilar, Inc.

For our other products where our revenues are less significant, we also have a variety of other competitors.

Intellectual Property and other Proprietary Rights

We consider many aspects of our products, processes and services to be proprietary. We have registered, among others, “MSCI”, “Barra”, “FEA”, “InvestorForce”,
“IPD” and “RiskMetrics” as trademarks or service marks in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries. We will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks, service marks and copyrights as appropriate. From time
to time, we also file patent applications to protect our proprietary rights. We currently hold 21 U.S. and foreign patents and have five U.S. and foreign patents pending. Additionally, many of our products, processes and services require the use of
intellectual property obtained from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, processes and services.

Although we believe the ownership of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, the implementation of certain measures to
protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and our ability to obtain the rights to use intellectual property of third parties are important to our business and contribute in part to our overall success, we do not believe we are
dependent on any one of our intellectual property rights or any one license to use third party intellectual property. For a discussion of the risks associated with legal protection of our intellectual property and other rights, infringement claims
and the ability to obtain or renew licenses for third party intellectual property see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors—Legal Protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect
our competitive advantages. Third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights.”

Employees

As of
December 31, 2013, the number of our employees increased by 502 to 3,261 from 2,759 on December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2013, 46.6% of our employees were located in emerging market centers.







Government Regulation

The Company is subject to reporting, disclosure and recordkeeping obligations pursuant to SEC requirements. ISS and MSCI ESG Research Inc. are registered investment advisers and must comply with the
requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and related SEC regulations. Such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud
prohibitions. A subsidiary of ISS in Australia is also registered as an investment adviser with the Australian Financial Services Authority and must comply with its applicable requirements. MSCI is registered with the State Council Information
Office of the Ministry of Commerce and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce in China as a foreign institution supplying financial information services in China.

Available Information

Our corporate headquarters are located at 7 World
Trade Center, 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, 10007, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. We maintain a website on the Internet atwww.msci.com. The contents of our website are not a part of or incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other
information with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov. We also make available free of
charge, on or through this website, these reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these, click on the “SEC
Filings” link found on our Investor Relations homepage.

We also use our website (http://ir.msci.com/) and
corporate Twitter account (@MSCI_Inc) as channels of distribution of Company information. The information we post through these channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press
releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about us when you enroll your email address by visiting the “Email Alert Subscription” section athttp://ir.msci.com/alerts.cfm?. The contents of our website and social media channels are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

