Item 1. Business



General



Amphenol Corporation (“Amphenol” or the “Company”) is one of the world’s
largest designers, manufacturers and marketers of electrical, electronic and
fiber optic connectors, interconnect systems and coaxial and high-speed
specialty cable. The Company was incorporated in 1987. Certain predecessor
businesses, which now constitute part of the Company, have been in business
since 1932. The primary end markets for the Company’s products are:



·communication systems for the converging
technologies of voice, video and data communications;



·a broad range of industrial applications
including factory automation and motion control systems, medical and industrial
instrumentation, mass transportation, alternative energy, natural resource
exploration and traditional and hybrid- electrical automotive applications; and



·commercial aerospace and military
applications.



The Company’s strategy is to provide its customers with comprehensive
design capabilities, a broad selection of products and a high level of service
on a worldwide basis while maintaining continuing programs of productivity
improvement and cost control. For 2009, the Company reported net sales,
operating income and net income attributable to Amphenol Corporation of
$2,820.1 million, $488.9 million and $317.8 million, respectively. The table
below summarizes information regarding the Company’s primary markets and end
applications for the Company’s products:



Information Technology &CommunicationsIndustrial/AutomotiveCommercial Aerospace& MilitaryPercentage of Sales61%16%23%Primary End ApplicationsWireless Communication Systems·wireless handsets and personal communication
  devices·wireless infrastructure equipment·base stations·cell sitesBroadband Networks·cable television networks·set top converters·high-speed data kits·cable modems·network switching equipmentFactory
  automationInstrumentationAutomobile
  safetysystems andon-board electronicsHybrid-electrical
  vehicles Mass transportationOil
  explorationOff-road
  constructionMedical
  equipmentSatellite
  radio systemsGeophysicalAlternative
  energyMilitary
  and CommercialAircraft·avionics·engine controls·flight controls·passenger related systemsMissile
  systemsMilitary communications
  systemsSatellite
  and space programsRadar
  systemsMilitary
  vehiclesOrdnanceTelecommunications andData Communications·servers and storage systems·computers, personal computers and related
  peripherals·data networking equipment·routers and switches











The Company designs and manufactures connectors and interconnect
systems, which are used primarily to conduct electrical and optical signals for
a wide range of sophisticated electronic applications. The Company believes,
based primarily on published market research, that it is the second largest
connector and interconnect product manufacturer in the world. The Company has
developed a broad range of connector and interconnect products for the
information technology and communications equipment applications including the
converging voice, video and data communications markets. The Company offers a
broad range of interconnect products for factory automation and motion control
systems, machine tools, instrumentation and medical systems, mass
transportation applications and automotive applications, including airbags,
seatbelt pretensioners and other on-board automotive electronics. In addition,
the Company is the leading supplier of high performance,
military-specification, circular environmental connectors that require superior
reliability and performance under conditions of stress and in hostile
environments. These conditions are frequently encountered in commercial and
military aerospace applications and other demanding industrial applications
such as solar and wind power generation, oil exploration, medical equipment,
hybrid-electrical vehicles and off-road construction.



The Company is a global manufacturer employing advanced manufacturing
processes. The Company designs, manufactures and assembles its products at
facilities in the Americas, Europe, Asia and Africa. The Company sells its
products through its own global sales force, independent manufacturers’
representatives and a global network of electronics distributors to thousands
of Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) in approximately 60 countries
throughout the world. The Company also sells certain products to electronic
manufacturing services (“EMS”), to original design manufacturing (“ODM”)
companies and to communication network operators.  For 2009, approximately 39% of the Company’s
net sales were in North America, 19% were in Europe and 42% were in Asia and
other countries.



The Company generally implements its product development strategy
through product design teams and collaboration arrangements with customers
which result in the Company obtaining approved vendor status for its customers’
new products and programs. The Company seeks to have its products become widely
accepted within the industry for similar applications and products manufactured
by other potential customers, which the Company believes will provide
additional sources of future revenue. By developing application specific
products, the Company has decreased its exposure to standard products which
generally experience greater pricing pressure. In addition to product design
teams and customer collaboration arrangements, the Company uses key account
managers to manage customer relationships on a global basis such that it can
bring to bear its total resources to meet the worldwide needs of its
multinational customers.



The
Company and industry analysts estimate that the worldwide sales of interconnect
products were approximately $35 billion in 2009. The Company believes that the
worldwide industry for interconnect products and systems is highly fragmented
with over 2,000 producers of connectors and interconnect systems worldwide, of
which the 10 largest, including Amphenol, accounted for a combined market share
of approximately 49% in 2009.



The Company’s acquisition strategy is focused on the consolidation of
this highly fragmented industry.  The
Company targets acquisitions on a global basis in high growth segments that
have complementary capabilities to the Company from a product, customer and/or
geographic standpoint.  The Company looks
to add value to smaller companies through its global capabilities and generally
expects acquisitions to be accretive to performance in the first year.  In 2009, the Company invested approximately
$280 million on acquisitions, including payments for performance-based
additional cash consideration. A significant portion of this investment was
made on two acquisitions in target markets, including the military aerospace,
wireless infrastructure and telecommunications and data communications markets,
which broadened and enhanced its product offerings in these areas.








Table of
Contents



Business Segments



The following table sets forth the dollar amounts of the Company’s net
trade sales for its business segments. For a discussion of factors affecting
changes in sales by business segment and additional segment financial data, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”



200920082007(dollars in thousands)Net trade sales by business segment:Interconnect Products and Assemblies$2,566,578$2,950,570$2,569,281Cable Products253,487285,901281,760$2,820,065$3,236,471$2,851,041Net trade sales by geographic area (1):United States$1,001,742$1,159,349$1,155,846China611,877557,243382,489Other International locations1,206,4461,519,8791,312,706$2,820,065$3,236,471$2,851,041





(1)Based on
customer location to which product is shipped.



Interconnect Products and Assemblies.










Table of
Contents



Cable Products.The Company designs, manufactures and markets coaxial cable primarily
for use in the cable television industry. 
The Company’s Times Fiber Communications subsidiary is the world’s
second largest producer of coaxial cable for the cable television market. The
Company believes that its Times Fiber Communications unit is one of the lowest
cost producers of coaxial cable for cable television.  The Company’s coaxial cable and connector
products are used in cable television systems including full service cable television/telecommunication
systems being installed by cable operators and telecommunication companies
offering video, voice and data services. 
The Company is also a major supplier of coaxial cable to the international
cable television market.  The Company
manufactures two primary types of coaxial cable: semi-flexible, which has an
aluminum tubular shield, and flexible, which has one or more braided metallic
shields. Semi-flexible coaxial cable is used in the trunk and feeder
distribution portion of cable television systems, and flexible cable (also
known as drop cable) is used primarily for hookups from the feeder cable to the
cable television subscriber’s residence. 
Flexible cable is also used in other communication applications.  The Company has also developed a broad line
of radio frequency and fiber optic interconnect components for full service
cable television/ telecommunication networks.



The Company is also a leading producer of high speed data cables and
specialty cables, which are used to connect internal components in systems with
space and component configuration limitations. 
Such products are used in computer and office equipment applications as
well as in a variety of telecommunication applications.



International Operations



The Company believes that its global presence is an important
competitive advantage, as it allows the Company to provide quality products on
a timely and worldwide basis to its multinational customers.  Approximately 64% of the Company’s sales for
the year ended December 31, 2009 were outside the United States and
approximately 22% of the Company’s sales were sold to customers in China. The
Company has international manufacturing and assembly facilities in China,
Taiwan, Korea, India, Japan, Malaysia, Europe, Canada, Latin America, Africa
and Australia.  European operations
include manufacturing and assembly facilities in the United Kingdom, Germany,
France, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Estonia and sales offices in most
European markets. The Company’s international manufacturing and assembly
facilities generally serve the respective local markets and coordinate product
design and manufacturing responsibility with the Company’s other operations
around the world.  The Company has low
cost manufacturing and assembly facilities in China, Malaysia, Mexico, India,
Eastern Europe and Africa to serve regional and world markets.



Customers



The Company’s products are used in a wide variety of applications by
numerous customers, the largest of which accounted for approximately 7% of net
sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company sells its products
to over 10,000 customer locations worldwide. The Company’s products are sold
directly to OEMs, contract manufacturers, cable system operators,
telecommunication companies and through manufacturers’ representatives and
distributors. There has been a trend on the part of OEM customers to
consolidate their lists of qualified suppliers to companies that have a broad
portfolio of leading technology solutions, design capability, global presence,
can meet quality and delivery standards and have competitive prices.



The Company has focused its global resources to position itself to
compete effectively in this environment. The Company has concentrated its
efforts on service and productivity improvements including advanced computer
aided design and manufacturing systems, statistical process controls and
just-in-time inventory programs to increase product quality and shorten product
delivery schedules. The Company’s strategy is to provide comprehensive design
capabilities, a broad selection of products and a high level of service in the
areas in which it competes. The Company has achieved a preferred supplier
designation from many of its customers.



The
Company’s sales to distributors represented approximately 13% of the Company’s
2009 sales. The Company’s recognized brand names, including “Amphenol,” “Times
Fiber,” “Tuchel,” “Socapex,” “Sine,” “Spectra-Strip,” “Pyle-National,” “Matrix,”
“Kai Jack” and others, together with the Company’s strong connector design-in
position (products that are specified in customer drawings), enhance its
ability to reach the secondary market through its network of distributors.



Manufacturing



The
Company employs advanced manufacturing processes including molding, stamping,
plating, turning, extruding, die casting and assembly operations as well as
proprietary process technology for specialty and coaxial cable production. The
Company’s manufacturing facilities are generally vertically integrated
operations from the initial design stage through final design and manufacturing.
Outsourcing of certain fabrication processes is used when cost-effective.
Substantially all of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are certified to
the ISO9000 series of quality standards, and many of the Company’s
manufacturing facilities are certified to








Table of
Contents



other
quality standards, including QS9000, ISO14000 and TS16469.



The Company employs a global manufacturing strategy to lower its
production costs and to improve service to customers. The Company sources its
products on a worldwide basis with manufacturing and assembly operations in the
Americas, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. To better serve certain high
volume customers, the Company has established just-in-time facilities near
these major customers.



The Company’s policy is to maintain strong cost controls in its
manufacturing and assembly operations. The Company is continually evaluating
and adjusting its expense levels and workforce to reflect current business
conditions and maximize the return on capital investments.



The Company purchases a wide variety of raw materials for the manufacture
of its products, including precious metals such as gold and silver used in
plating, aluminum, brass, steel, copper and bimetallic products used for cable,
contacts and connector shells, and plastic materials used for cable and
connector bodies and inserts. Such raw materials are generally available
throughout the world and are purchased locally from a variety of suppliers. The
Company is generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials, or if
one source is used the Company attempts to protect itself through long-term
supply agreements.



Research and Development



The Company’s research and development expense for the creation of new
and improved products and processes was $64.0 million, $68.1 million and
$62.4 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s
research and development activities focus on selected product areas and are
performed by individual operating divisions. Generally, the operating divisions
work closely with OEM customers to develop highly-engineered products and
systems that meet specific customer needs. The Company focuses its research and
development efforts primarily on those product areas that it believes have the
potential for broad market applications and significant sales within a
one-to-three year period.



Trademarks and Patents



The Company owns a number of active patents worldwide. The Company also
regards its trademarks “Amphenol,” “Times Fiber,” “Tuchel,” “Socapex” and “Spectra-Strip”
to be of material value in its businesses. The Company has exclusive rights in
all its major markets to use these registered trademarks. The Company has
rights to other registered and unregistered trademarks which it believes to be
of value to its businesses. While the Company considers its patents and
trademarks to be valuable assets, the Company does not believe that its
competitive position is dependent on patent or trademark protection or that its
operations are dependent on any individual patent or trademark.



Competition



The Company encounters competition in substantially all areas of its
business. The Company competes primarily on the basis of technology innovation,
product quality, price, customer service and delivery time. Competitors include
large, diversified companies, some of which have substantially greater assets
and financial resources than the Company, as well as medium to small companies.
In the area of coaxial cable for cable television, the Company believes that it
and CommScope are the primary world providers of such cable; however, CommScope
is larger than the Company in this market. In addition, the Company faces
competition from other companies that have concentrated their efforts in one or
more areas of the coaxial cable market.



Backlog



The Company estimates that its backlog of unfilled orders was $534 million
and $505 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Orders
typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on customer demand and
general business conditions. Unfilled orders may be cancelled prior to shipment
of goods. It is expected that all or a substantial portion of the backlog will
be filled within the next 12 months. Significant elements of the Company’s
business, such as sales to the communications related markets (including
wireless communications, telecom & data communications and broadband
communications) and sales to distributors, generally have short lead times.
Therefore, backlog may not be indicative of future demand.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately 32,200
full-time employees worldwide of which approximately 24,800 were located in low
cost regions. Of these employees, approximately 26,400 were hourly employees
and the remainder were











salaried
employees. The Company believes that it has a good relationship with its
unionized and non-unionized employees.



Environmental Matters



Certain operations of the Company are subject to environmental laws and
regulations which govern the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, as
well as the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. The Company
believes that its operations are currently in substantial compliance with
applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of continuing
compliance will not have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition
or results of operations.







Since 1987, the Company has not been identified nor has it been named
as a potentially responsible party with respect to any other significant
on-site or off-site hazardous waste matters. In addition, the Company believes
that its manufacturing activities and disposal practices since 1987 have been
in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Nonetheless, it is possible that the Company will be named as a potentially
responsible party in the future with respect to additional Superfund or other
sites. Although the Company is unable to predict with any reasonable certainty
the extent of its ultimate liability with respect to any pending or future
environmental matters, the Company believes, based upon information currently
known by management about the Company’s manufacturing activities, disposal
practices and estimates of liability with respect to known environmental
matters, that any such liability will not be material to its financial
condition or results of operations.



Other



The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K and all other SEC filings
are available, without charge, on the Company’s web site, www.amphenol.com, as
soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the
SEC. Copies are also available without charge, from Amphenol Corporation,
Investor Relations, 358 Hall Avenue, Wallingford, CT 06492.



Cautionary Information for Purposes
of Forward Looking Statements



Statements made by the Company in written or oral form to various
persons, including statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K and
other filings with the SEC, that are not strictly historical facts are “forward
looking” statements. Such statements should be considered as subject to
uncertainties that exist in the Company’s operations and business environment.
Certain of the risk








Table
of Contents



factors, assumptions or uncertainties that could cause the Company to
fail to conform with expectations and predictions are described below under the
caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item IA and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Should one or more of these risks or
uncertainties occur, or should our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results
may vary materially from those described in this Form 10-K as anticipated,
believed, estimated or expected.  We do
not intend to update these forward looking statements.



