Item 1. Business



General



Amphenol Corporation (“Amphenol” or the “Company”) is one of the world’s largest designers, manufacturers and marketers of electrical, electronic and fiber optic connectors, interconnect systems and coaxial and high-speed specialty cable. The Company was incorporated in 1987. Certain predecessor businesses, which now constitute part of the Company, have been in business since 1932. The primary end markets for the Company’s products are:



·communication systems for the converging technologies of voice, video and data communications;



·a broad range of industrial applications including factory automation and motion control systems, medical and industrial instrumentation, mass transportation, alternative and traditional energy generation, natural resource exploration and traditional and hybrid- electrical automotive applications; and



·commercial aerospace and military applications.



The Company’s strategy is to provide its customers with comprehensive design capabilities, a broad selection of products and a high level of service on a worldwide basis while maintaining continuing programs of productivity improvement and cost control. For 2010, the Company reported net sales, operating income and net income attributable to Amphenol Corporation of $3,554.1 million, $700.4 million and $496.4 million, respectively. The table below summarizes information regarding the Company’s primary markets and end applications for the Company’s products in 2010:



Information Technology &CommunicationsIndustrial/AutomotiveCommercial Aerospace& MilitaryPercentage   of Sales(approximate)60%18%22%Primary   End ApplicationsBroadband   Networks·cable modems·cable television   networks·high-speed   internet·network switching   equipment·set top   convertersTelecommunications   and Data Communications·computers, personal computers   and related peripherals·data networking   equipment·routers and   switches·servers and   storage systemsWireless Communication Systems·base stations·cell sites·smart mobile   devices, including tablets·wireless handsets·wireless   infrastructure equipmentAlternative and traditional energy generationAutomobile on-board electronics and safety systemsFactory   automationGeophysicalHeavy   equipmentHigh   speed and traditional railHybrid-electrical   vehiclesInstrumentationMass   transportationMedical   equipmentNatural   resource explorationMilitary   and Commercial Aircraft·avionics·engine controls·flight controls·passenger related   systems·unmanned aerial vehiclesMilitary communications systemsMissile   systemsOrdnanceRadar   systemsSatellite   and space programs











The Company designs and manufactures connectors and interconnect systems, which are used primarily to conduct electrical and optical signals for a wide range of sophisticated electronic applications. The Company believes, based primarily on published market research, that it is the second largest connector and interconnect product manufacturer in the world. The Company has developed a broad range of connector and interconnect products for information technology and communications equipment applications including the converging voice, video and data communications markets. The Company offers a broad range of interconnect products for factory automation and motion control systems, machine tools, instrumentation and medical systems, mass transportation applications and automotive applications, including airbags, seatbelt pretensioners and other on-board automotive electronics. 
In addition, the Company is the leading supplier of high performance, military-specification, circular environmental connectors that require superior reliability and performance under conditions of stress and in hostile environments. These conditions are frequently encountered in commercial and military aerospace applications and other demanding industrial applications such as solar and wind power generation, oil exploration, medical equipment, hybrid-electrical vehicles and off-road construction.



The Company is a global manufacturer employing advanced manufacturing processes. The Company designs, manufactures and assembles its products at facilities in the Americas, Europe, Asia and Africa. The Company sells its products through its own global sales force, independent manufacturers’ representatives and a global network of electronics distributors to thousands of Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) in approximately 70 countries throughout the world. The Company also sells certain products to Electronic Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) companies, to Original Design Manufacturing (“ODM”) companies and to communication network operators.  For 2010, approximately 39% of the Company’s net sales were in North America, 17% were in Europe and 44% were in Asia and other countries.



The Company generally implements its product development strategy through product design teams and collaboration arrangements with customers which result in the Company obtaining approved vendor status for its customers’ new products and programs. The Company seeks to have its products become widely accepted within the industry for similar applications and products manufactured by other potential customers, which the Company believes will provide additional sources of future revenue. By developing application specific products, the Company has decreased its exposure to standard products which generally experience greater pricing pressure. In addition to product design teams and customer collaboration arrangements, the Company uses key account managers to manage customer relationships on a global basis such that it can bring to bear its total resources to meet the worldw
ide needs of its multinational customers.



The Company and industry analysts estimate that the worldwide sales of interconnect products were approximately $44 billion in 2010. The Company believes that the worldwide industry for interconnect products and systems is highly fragmented with over 2,000 producers of connectors and interconnect systems worldwide, of which the 10 largest, including Amphenol, accounted for a combined market share of approximately 61% in 2010.



The Company’s acquisition strategy is focused on the consolidation of this highly fragmented industry.  The Company targets acquisitions on a global basis in high growth segments that have complementary capabilities to the Company from a product, customer and/or geographic standpoint.  The Company looks to add value to smaller companies through its global capabilities and generally expects acquisitions to be accretive to performance in the first year.  In 2010, the Company invested approximately $180 million on acquisitions. A significant portion of this investment was made on two acquisitions in target markets, including the military aerospace and industrial markets, which broadened and enhanced the Company’s product offerings in these areas.











Business Segments



The following table sets forth the dollar amounts of the Company’s net trade sales by business segment and geographic area. For a discussion of factors affecting changes in sales by business segment and additional financial data by business segment and geographic area, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 herein.



201020092008(dollars in thousands)Net trade sales by business segment:Interconnect Products and Assemblies$3,293,119$2,566,578$2,950,570Cable Products260,982253,487285,901$3,554,101$2,820,065$3,236,471Net trade sales by geographic area (1):United States$1,258,167$1,001,742$1,159,349China851,626611,877557,243Other International Locations1,444,3081,206,4461,519,879$3,554,101$2,820,065$3,236,471





(1)Based on customer location to which product is shipped.



Interconnect Products and Assemblies.













Cable Products.The Company designs, manufactures and markets coaxial cable primarily for use in the cable television industry.  The Company’s Times Fiber Communications subsidiary is the world’s second largest producer of coaxial cable for the cable television market. The Company believes that its Times Fiber Communications unit is one of the lowest cost producers of coaxial cable for cable television.  The Company’s coaxial cable and connector products are used in cable television systems including full service cable television/telecommunication systems being installed by cable operators and telecommunication companies offering video, voice and data services.  The Company is also a major supplier of coaxial cable to the international cable television market.  T
he Company manufactures two primary types of coaxial cable: semi-flexible, which has an aluminum tubular shield, and flexible, which has one or more braided metallic shields. Semi-flexible coaxial cable is used in the trunk and feeder distribution portion of cable television systems, and flexible cable (also known as drop cable) is used primarily for hookups from the feeder cable to the cable television subscriber’s residence.  Flexible cable is also used in other communication applications.  The Company has also developed a broad line of radio frequency and fiber optic interconnect components for full service cable television/ telecommunication networks.



The Company is also a leading producer of high speed data cables and specialty cables, which are used to connect internal components in systems with space and component configuration limitations.  Such products are used in computer and office equipment applications as well as in a variety of telecommunication applications.



International Operations



The Company believes that its global presence is an important competitive advantage, as it allows the Company to provide quality products on a timely and worldwide basis to its multinational customers.  Approximately 65% of the Company’s sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 were outside the United States and approximately 24% of the Company’s sales were sold to customers in China. The Company has international manufacturing and assembly facilities in China, Taiwan, Korea, India, Japan, Malaysia, Europe, Canada, Latin America, Africa and Australia.  European operations include manufacturing and assembly facilities in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Estonia and sales offices in most European markets. The Company’s international manufacturing and assembly facilities generally serve the respective loc
al markets and coordinate product design and manufacturing responsibility with the Company’s other operations around the world.  The Company has low cost manufacturing and assembly facilities in China, Malaysia, Mexico, India, Eastern Europe and Africa to serve regional and world markets.  For a discussion of risks attendant to the Company’s foreign operations, see the risk factor titled “The Company is subject to the risks of political, economic and military instability in countries outside the United States” in Part I, Item 1A herein.



Customers



The Company’s products are used in a wide variety of applications by numerous customers, the largest of which accounted for approximately 6% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company sells its products to over 10,000 customer locations worldwide. The Company’s products are sold directly to OEMs, EMSs, ODMs, cable system operators, telecommunication companies and through manufacturers’ representatives and distributors. There has been a trend on the part of OEM customers to consolidate their lists of qualified suppliers to companies that have a broad portfolio of leading technology solutions, design capability, global presence, and the ability to meet quality and delivery standards while maintaining competitive prices.



The Company has focused its global resources to position itself to compete effectively in this environment. The Company has concentrated its efforts on service and productivity improvements including advanced computer aided design and manufacturing systems, statistical process controls and just-in-time inventory programs to increase product quality and shorten product delivery schedules. The Company’s strategy is to provide comprehensive design capabilities, a broad selection of products and a high level of service in the areas in which it competes. The Company has achieved a preferred supplier designation from many of its customers.



The Company’s sales to distributors represented approximately 14% of the Company’s 2010 sales. The Company’s recognized brand names, including “Amphenol,” “Times Fiber,” “Tuchel,” “Socapex,” “Sine,” “Spectra-Strip,” “Pyle-National,” “Matrix,” “Kai Jack” and others, together with the Company’s strong connector design-in position (products that are specified in customer drawings), enhance its ability to reach the secondary market through its network of distributors.



Manufacturing



The Company employs advanced manufacturing processes including molding, stamping, plating, turning, extruding, die casting and assembly operations as well as proprietary process technology for specialty and coaxial cable production. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are generally vertically integrated operations from the initial design stage through final design and manufacturing.











Outsourcing of certain fabrication processes is used when cost-effective. Substantially all of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are certified to the ISO9000 series of quality standards, and many of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are certified to other quality standards, including QS9000, ISO14000 and TS16469.



The Company employs a global manufacturing strategy to lower its production costs and to improve service to customers. The Company sources its products on a worldwide basis with manufacturing and assembly operations in the Americas, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. To better serve certain high volume customers, the Company has established just-in-time facilities near these major customers.



The Company’s policy is to maintain strong cost controls in its manufacturing and assembly operations. The Company is continually evaluating and adjusting its expense levels and workforce to reflect current business conditions and maximize the return on capital investments.



The Company purchases a wide variety of raw materials for the manufacture of its products, including precious metals such as gold and silver used in plating, aluminum, brass, steel, copper and bimetallic products used for cable, contacts and connector shells, and plastic materials used for cable and connector bodies and inserts. Such raw materials are generally available throughout the world and are purchased locally from a variety of suppliers. The Company is generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials, or if one source is used the Company attempts to protect itself through long-term supply agreements.



Research and Development



The Company’s research and development expense for the creation of new and improved products and processes was $77.6 million, $64.0 million and $68.1 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company’s research and development activities focus on selected product areas and are performed by individual operating divisions. Generally, the operating divisions work closely with OEM customers to develop highly-engineered products and systems that meet specific customer needs. The Company focuses its research and development efforts primarily on those product areas that it believes have the potential for broad market applications and significant sales within a one-to-three year period.



Trademarks and Patents



The Company owns a number of active patents worldwide. The Company also regards its trademarks “Amphenol,” “Times Fiber,” “Tuchel,” “Socapex” and “Spectra-Strip” to be of material value in its businesses. The Company has exclusive rights in all its major markets to use these registered trademarks. The Company has rights to other registered and unregistered trademarks which it believes to be of value to its businesses. While the Company considers its patents and trademarks to be valuable assets, the Company does not believe that its competitive position is dependent on patent or trademark protection or that its operations are dependent on any individual patent or trademark.



Competition



The Company encounters competition in substantially all areas of its business. The Company competes primarily on the basis of technology innovation, product quality, price, customer service and delivery time. Competitors include large, diversified companies, some of which have substantially greater assets and financial resources than the Company, as well as medium to small companies. In the area of coaxial cable for cable television, the Company believes that it and CommScope, Inc. are the primary world providers of such cable; however, CommScope, Inc. is larger than the Company in this market. In addition, the Company faces competition from other companies that have concentrated their efforts in one or more areas of the coaxial cable market.



Backlog



The Company estimates that its backlog of unfilled orders was $680 million and $534 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Orders typically fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on customer demand and general business conditions. Unfilled orders may be cancelled prior to shipment of goods. It is expected that all or a substantial portion of the backlog will be filled within the next 12 months. Significant elements of the Company’s business, such as sales to the communications related markets (including wireless communications, telecom & data communications and broadband communications) and sales to distributors, generally have short lead times. Therefore, backlog may not be indicative of future demand.











Employees



As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately 39,100  employees worldwide of which approximately 31,000 were located in low cost regions. Of these employees, approximately 32,700 were hourly employees and the remainder were salaried employees. The Company believes that it has a good relationship with its unionized and non-unionized employees.



Environmental Matters



Certain operations of the Company are subject to environmental laws and regulations which govern the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, as well as the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. The Company believes that its operations are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and that the costs of continuing compliance will not have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.





Subsequent to the acquisition of Amphenol from Allied Signal Corporation (“Allied Signal”) in 1987 (Allied Signal merged with Honeywell International Inc. in December 1999 (“Honeywell”)), the Company and Honeywell were named jointly and severally liable as potentially responsible parties in connection with several environmental cleanup sites. The Company and Honeywell jointly consented to perform certain investigations and remediation and monitoring activities at the Route 8 landfill and the Richardson Hill Road landfill, and they were jointly ordered to perform work at the Sidney landfill, all as referred to above. All of the costs incurred relating to these three sites are currently reimbursed by Honeywell based on an agreement (the “Honeywell Agreement”) entered into in connection with the acquisition in 1987. Management does not be
lieve that the costs associated with resolution of these or any other environmental matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The environmental investigation, remediation and monitoring activities identified by the Company, including those referred to above, are covered under the Honeywell Agreement.



Since 1987, the Company has not been identified nor has it been named as a potentially responsible party with respect to any other significant on-site or off-site hazardous waste matters. In addition, the Company believes that its manufacturing activities and disposal practices since 1987 have been in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Nonetheless, it is possible that the Company will be named as a potentially responsible party in the future with respect to additional Superfund or other sites. Although the Company is unable to predict with any reasonable certainty the extent of its ultimate liability with respect to any pending or future environmental matters, the Company believes, based upon information currently known by management about the Company’s manufacturing activities, disposal practices and estimates of liability with resp
ect to known environmental matters, that any such liability will not be material to its financial condition or results of operations.



Other



The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K and all of the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are available, without charge, on the Company’s web site, www.amphenol.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Copies are also available without charge, from Amphenol Corporation, Investor Relations, 358 Hall Avenue, Wallingford, CT 06492.











Cautionary Information for Purposes of Forward Looking Statements



Statements made by the Company in written or oral form to various persons, including statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC, that are not strictly historical facts are “forward looking” statements. Such statements should be considered as subject to uncertainties that exist in the Company’s operations and business environment. Certain of the risk factors, assumptions or uncertainties that could cause the Company to fail to conform with expectations and predictions are described below under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item IA and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K.  Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or should the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this annual report on Form&n
bsp;10-K as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected.  We do not intend to update these forward looking statements.



