Item 1.Business



Regions Financial Corporation is a financial holding company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, which operates in the South, Midwest and Texas. The terms "Regions," "the Company", "we", "us" and "our" mean Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation and its subsidiaries, when appropriate. Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. AtDecember 31, 2013, Regions had total consolidated assets of approximately$117.4 billion, total consolidated deposits of approximately$92.5 billionand total consolidated stockholders’ equity of approximately$15.8 billion.

Regions is a Delaware corporation and on July 1, 2004, became the successor by merger to Union Planters Corporation and the former Regions Financial Corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203, and its telephone number at that address is (800) 734-4667.

Banking Operations

Regions conducts its banking operations through Regions Bank, an Alabama chartered commercial bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. AtDecember 31, 2013, Regions operated 2,029 ATMs and 1,705 banking offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.

The following chart reflects the distribution of branch locations in each of the states in which Regions conducts its banking operations.



BranchesAlabama241Arkansas97Florida372Georgia137Illinois64Indiana63Iowa13Kentucky16Louisiana114Mississippi143Missouri67North Carolina6South Carolina30Tennessee258Texas82Virginia2Total1,705

Other Financial Services Operations

In addition to its banking operations, Regions provides additional financial services through the following subsidiaries:

Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, is an insurance broker that offers insurance products through its subsidiaries Regions Insurance, Inc., headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, and Regions Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. Through its insurance brokerage operations in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas, Regions Insurance, Inc. offers insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. Regions Insurance Services, Inc. offers various insurance products, such as title, mortgage, crop, term life, accidental death and dismemberment, and environmental insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Regions Insurance Group, Inc. is one of the thirty largest insurance brokers in the United States based on annual revenues.











Regions has several subsidiaries and affiliates that are agents or reinsurers of debt cancellation products and credit life insurance products relating to the activities of certain affiliates of Regions Bank.In addition, Regions Equipment Finance Corporation and Regions Commercial Equipment Finance, LLC, provide equipment financing products, focusing on commercial clients.

Regions Investment Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank, offers investments and insurance products to Regions Bank customers, provided by licensed insurance agents. In addition, Regions Bank and Regions Investment Services, Inc. also maintain an agreement with Cetera Investment Services, LLC to offer securities, insurance, and advisory services to Regions Bank customers through dually employed financial consultants.

Acquisition Program

A substantial portion of the growth of Regions from its inception as a bank holding company in 1971 has been through the acquisition of other financial institutions, including commercial banks and thrift institutions, and the assets and deposits of those financial institutions. As part of its ongoing strategic plan, Regions periodically evaluates business combination opportunities. Any future business combination or series of business combinations that Regions might undertake may be material to Regions’ financial condition, in terms of assets acquired or liabilities assumed. Historically, business combinations in the financial services industry have typically involved the payment of a premium over book and market values of assets and liabilities acquired. This practice could result in dilution of book value and net income per share for the acquirer.

Segment Information

Reference is made to Note 22 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information required by this item.

Supervision and Regulation

Regions is subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. This framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (“FDIC”) Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) and the banking system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of stockholders or other investors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to Regions. These descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Overview

Regions is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) as a bank holding company and has elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHC Act”). As such, Regions and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Federal Reserve.

Generally, the BHC Act provides for “umbrella” regulation of financial holding companies by the Federal Reserve and functional regulation of holding company subsidiaries by applicable regulatory agencies. The BHC Act, however, requires the Federal Reserve to examine any subsidiary of a bank holding company, other than a depository institution, engaged in activities permissible for a depository institution. The Federal Reserve is also granted the authority, in certain circumstances, to require reports of, examine and adopt rules applicable to any holding company subsidiary.











Regions is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Regions’ common stock and depository shares each representing a 1/40thinterest in a share of its 6.375% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, are each listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). Consequently, Regions is also subject to NYSE’s rules for listed companies.

Regions Bank is a member of the FDIC, and, as such, its deposits are insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law. Regions Bank is an Alabama state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System. It is generally subject to supervision and examination by both the Federal Reserve and the Alabama Banking Department. The Federal Reserve and the Alabama Banking Department regularly examine the operations of Regions Bank and are given authority to approve or disapprove mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. The federal and state banking regulators also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. Regions Bank is subject to numerous statutes and regulations that affect its business activities and operations, including various consumer protection laws and regulations. Regions Bank and its affiliates are also subject to supervision, regulation, and examination and enforcement by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations. Some of Regions’ non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies.

Permissible Activities under the BHC Act

In general, the BHC Act limits the activities permissible for bank holding companies to the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and such other activities as the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be properly incident thereto. A bank holding company electing to be treated as a financial holding company, like Regions, may also engage in a range of activities that are (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. These activities include securities dealing, underwriting and market making, insurance underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking and insurance company portfolio investments.

The BHC Act does not place territorial restrictions on permissible non-banking activities of bank holding companies. The Federal Reserve has the power to order any bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company.

Volcker Rule.  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds. The statutory provision is commonly called the “Volcker Rule.” In December 2013, federal regulators adopted final rules to implement the Volcker Rule. The final rules also require that large bank holding companies, such as Regions, design and implement compliance programs to ensure adherence to the Volcker Rule’s prohibitions. Development and monitoring of the required compliance program may require the expenditure of resources and management attention.We are continuing to evaluate the effects of the final rules, but we do not currently anticipate that the Volcker Rule will have a material effect on our operations.

Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards

Stress Testing.  As part of the enhanced prudential requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions, the Federal Reserve conducts annual analyses of bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets to determine whether the companies have sufficient capital on a consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses in three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve:  baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios.  The Federal Reserve makes its methodologies and data for upcoming analyses available no later than November 15 of each year.  Regions is also required to conduct its own semi-annual stress analysis (together with the Federal Reserve’s stress analysis, the “stress tests”) to assess the potential impact on Regions of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserve’s annual stress analysis. The Federal











Reserve may also use, and require companies to use, additional components in the adverse and severely adverse scenarios or additional or more complex scenarios designed to capture salient risks to specific business groups. Regions Bank is also required to conduct annual stress testing using the same economic and financial scenarios as Regions and report the results to the Federal Reserve.  A summary of results of the Federal Reserve’s analysis under the adverse and severely adverse stress scenarios will be publicly disclosed, and the bank holding companies subject to the rules, including Regions, must disclose a summary of the company-run severely adverse stress test results. Regions is required to include in its disclosure a summary of the severely adverse scenario stress test conducted by Regions Bank.

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review

In September 2013, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule amending its capital plan and stress test rules to clarify how bank holding companies with over $50 billion in total consolidated assets should incorporate the recently adopted Basel III Capital Rule (as defined below) for the 2014 CCAR process and the supervisory and company run stress tests. Under the Federal Reserve’s interim final rule, such bank holding companies must both (i) project its regulatory capital ratios and meet the required minimums under the Basel III Capital Rules for each quarter of the nine-quarter planning horizon in accordance with the minimum capital requirements that are in effect during that quarter, and subject to appropriate phase-ins/phase-outs under the new rules and (ii) continue to meet the minimum 5% Tier 1 common equity ratio as calculated under the previously generally applicable risk-based capital rules.  Regions submitted its 2014 CCAR capital plan to the Federal Reserve on January 6, 2014.

Living Will Requirement.  On December 19, 2013, we filed our initial plan for the rapid and orderly resolution under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material distress or failure. Under rules adopted by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to update this plan annually and may be required to update it upon the occurrence of material changes in our business, structure or operations. This resolution planning requirement  may, as a practical matter, present additional constraints on our structure, operations and business strategy, and on transactions and business arrangements between our bank and non-bank subsidiaries, because we must consider the impact of these matters on our ability to prepare and submit a resolution plan that demonstrates that we may be resolved under the Bankruptcy Code in a rapid and orderly manner. Additionally, if the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that our plan is not credible and we do not cure the deficiencies, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations of the Company.

Orderly Liquidation Authority













The FDIC has developed a strategy under OLA, referred to as the “single point of entry” or “SPOE” strategy, under which the FDIC would resolve a failed financial holding company by transferring its assets (including shares of its operating subsidiaries) and, potentially, very limited liabilities to a “bridge” holding company; utilize the resources of the failed financial holding company to recapitalize the operating subsidiaries; and satisfy the claims of unsecured creditors of the failed financial holding company and other claimants in the receivership by delivering securities of one or more new financial companies that would emerge from the bridge holding company. Under this strategy, management of the failed financial holding company would be replaced and shareholders and creditors of the failed financial holding company would bear the losses resulting from the failure. The FDIC issued a notice in December 2013 describing some elements of the SPOE strategy, and seeking public comment to further develop the strategy.

U.S. Department of Treasury’s Assessment Fee Program.The U.S. Treasury issued a rule implementing Section 155 of the Dodd-Frank Act to establish an assessment schedule for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to cover expenses associated with the Office of Financial Research, the FSOC and implementation of OLA by the FDIC. We believe the assessment will not be material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Additional Proposed SIFI Rules

.  In December 2011, the Federal Reserve introduced a new proposal aimed at minimizing risks associated with systemically important financial institutions.  The Federal Reserve’s proposal includes, among other things,  risk-based capital and leverage requirements, liquidity requirements, stress tests, single-counterparty credit limits and overall risk management requirements, early remediation requirements and resolution planning and credit exposure reporting. The proposed rules would address a wide, diverse array of regulatory areas, each of which is highly complex. In some cases they would implement financial regulatory requirements being proposed for the first time, and in others overlap with other regulatory reforms. The proposed rules also address the Dodd-Frank Act’s early remediation requirements applicable to bank holding companies that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The proposed remediation rules are modeled after the prompt corrective action regime, described under “-Safety and Soundness Standards” below, but are designed to require action beginning in the earlier stages of a company’s financial distress by mandating action on the basis of arranged triggers, including capital and leverage, stress test results, liquidity, and risk management.  On February 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule implementing its December 2011 proposal. Both the text and the full impact of the final rule on our business are still being analyzed.

Capital Requirements

Regions and Regions Bank are each required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve. The current risk-based capital standards applicable to Regions and Regions Bank (the “general risk-based capital rules”) are based on the 1988 Capital Accord, known as Basel I, of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). However, the Federal Reserve has recently adopted rules establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for banks and bank holding companies.



General Risk-Based Capital Rules.    The general risk-based capital rules are intended to make regulatory capital requirements sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to weighted risk categories.  Capital is classified as Tier 1 (or core) capital or Tier 2 (or supplementary) capital depending on its characteristics.  Under the general risk-based capital rules, Tier 1 capital includes common equity, retained earnings, qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), non-controlling interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, and a limited amount of certain restricted core capital elements, less goodwill,  most intangible assets and certain other assets, and Tier 2 capital includes qualifying subordinated debt, qualifying mandatorily convertible debt securities, perpetual preferred stock not included in the definition of Tier 1 capital, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses.

Under the general risk-based capital rules, Regions and Regions Bank are each required to maintain Tier 1 capital and Total capital (that is, the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) equal to at least 4.0% and 8.0%, respectively, of total risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit).  The general risk-based capital rules also state that voting common stockholders’ equity should be the predominant element within Tier 1 capital, and that banks and bank holding companies should avoid over-reliance on non-common equity elements.



Advanced Approaches Risk-Based Capital Rules.  In 2004, the Basel Committee published a new set of risk-based capital standards, known as Basel II, to revise Basel I. Basel II provides three approaches for setting capital standards for credit risk-“foundation” and “advanced” internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual institutions’ circumstances, and a standardized approach that bases risk-weighting on external credit assessments to a much greater extent than permitted in Basel I or the general risk-based capital rules. Basel II also sets capital requirements for operational risk and refines the existing capital requirements for market risk exposures. The federal bank regulators only adopted Basel II’s advanced approaches, and only for banking organizations having $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposures











of $10 billion or more.  Regions and Regions Bank are not currently required to comply with the federal bank regulators’ rules implementing Basel II’s advanced approaches framework.



Basel III and the New Capital Rules.  In July 2013, the federal bank regulators approved final rules (the “New Capital Rules”) implementing the Basel Committee’s December 2010 final capital framework for strengthening international capital standards, known as Basel III, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The New Capital Rules also substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries, including Regions and Regions Bank, as compared to the general risk-based capital rules. The New Capital Rules revise the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in regulatory capital ratios.  The New Capital Rules also address asset risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing general risk-weighting approach based on Basel I with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized approach as part of Basel II. The New Capital Rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal bank regulators’ rules. The New Capital Rules are effective for Regions and Regions Bank on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period).



The New Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a new capital measure called “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”), (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting certain revised requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments to capital as compared to existing regulations.



Under the New Capital Rules, the minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2015 will be as follows:



•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;



•6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1plusAdditional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and



•8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capitalplusTier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets.



The New Capital Rules also introduce a new capital conservation buffer designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. The capital conservation buffer is composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. In addition, the New Capital Rules provide for a countercyclical capital buffer applicable only to certain covered institutions.  We do not expect the countercyclical capital buffer to be applicable to Regions or Regions Bank. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.



When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the New Capital Rules will require Regions and Regions Bank to maintain such additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%, and (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%. In addition, Regions is also subject to the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule and supervisory CCAR program, pursuant to which our ability to make capital distributions and repurchase or redeem capital securities may be limited unless we are able to demonstrate our ability to meet applicable minimum capital ratios and currently a 5% minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio, as well as other requirements, over a nine quarter planning horizon under a “severely adverse” macroeconomic scenario generated yearly by the federal bank regulators.  See “-Supervision and Regulation - Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards - Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review” for more information on these topics.”



The New Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1.  These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1.



Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 will begin on January 1, 2015 and will be phased-in over a 4-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and be phased in over a 4-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).



The New Capital Rules prescribe a new standardized approach for risk weightings that expands the risk-weighting categories from the current four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive











number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset classes.

In November 2011, the Basel Committee supplemented Basel III by issuing final provisions applying a new CET1 surcharge to certain global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”). In a companion release addressing progress on a variety of financial regulatory reforms relating to global systemically important financial institutions, the Financial Stability Board released a list of 29 such institutions and indicated that it used the G-SIB surcharge methodology in creating the list. The Company was not included on either the original or revised lists of G-SIBs released in November 2012 and November 2013. Under Basel III, banks found to be G-SIBs will be subject to a progressive CET1 surcharge ranging from 1% to 3.5% over the Basel III 7% CET1 requirement. While the New Capital Rules did not address the adoption of the surcharge on G-SIBs, the federal bank regulators noted that they plan to implement this surcharge for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, or some subset of such institutions, consistent with the Basel Committee’s G-SIB surcharge proposal. Regions is not currently subject to this CET1 surcharge. However, it is possible that we may be subject to CET1 or other surcharges in the future.

Leverage Requirements.    Bank holding companies and banks are also required to comply with minimum leverage ratio requirements. These requirements provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the “leverage ratio”), of 4.0% for all bank holding companies, with a lower 3.0% minimum for bank holding companies that meet certain specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating. The New Capital Rules remove the more permissive 3.0% leverage ratio currently available under the rules for certain highly rated banking organizations.

Liquidity Requirements.    Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity’s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25 percent of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon.  These requirements will incentivize banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities, Ginnie Mae securities, cash held at the Federal Reserve and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source.

In October 2013, the federal banking agencies proposed rules implementing the LCR for advanced approaches institutions and a modified version of the LCR for bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets that are not advanced approach institutions.  Regions is not an advanced approaches institution and would only be required to comply with the modified LCR, which as currently written, among other differences from the LCR, only uses a 21-day time horizon for calculating the level of required high-quality liquid assets under a stress scenario.  The proposed rule would be phased in over a two-year period beginning January 1, 2015, with 80% compliance required on January 1, 2015, 90% compliance on January 1, 2016 and 100% compliance on January 1, 2017.  Additionally, while the proposed rules do not implement the NSFR, the Federal Reserve has stated its intent to adopt a version of the NSFR as well.

The Federal Reserve’s proposed heightened prudential requirements for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of consolidated total assets also include enhanced liquidity standards, as discussed above under “-Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards.”

Safety and Soundness Standards

Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDIA”), establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. Additionally, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the FDIA. See “-Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” below. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties.











Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA

The FDIA requires the federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. The FDIA establishes five capital categories (“well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”), and the federal banking agencies must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions which are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized.

Currently, a depository institution generally is deemed to be well capitalized if it maintains a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6%, a total capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. As of the phase-in of the Basel III Capital Rules on January 1, 2015, a depository institution will be deemed to be well capitalized if it maintains a CET1 capital ratio of at least 6.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, a total capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5% and, for an advanced approaches depository institution, a supplementary leverage ratio of at least 3%.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, both Regions and Regions Bank were well capitalized with Tier 1 capital ratios of11.68%and12.46%, respectively, total capital ratios of14.73%and14.94%, respectively, and Tier 1 leverage ratios of10.03%and10.67%, respectively.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, Regions also had a CET1 ratio (non-GAAP) of10.58%calculated as if the New Capital Rules were fully phased-in as of the calculation date. See Table 2 "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. Regions Bank is not an advanced approaches institution.

An institution that is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels may be classified as adequately capitalized, and an institution that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon its capital levels may be treated as though it were undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized, respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment.

Payment of Dividends

Regions is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. The principal source of cash flow to Regions, including cash flow to pay dividends to its stockholders and principal and interest on any of its outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to Regions, as well as by Regions to its stockholders.

If, in the opinion of a federal bank regulatory agency, an institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the institution, could include the payment of dividends), such agency may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist from such practice. The federal bank regulatory agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete an institution’s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the FDIA, an insured institution may not pay a dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. See “-Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” above. Moreover, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings.

Payment of Dividends by Regions Bank.    Under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation H, Regions Bank may not, without approval of the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to Regions if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) Regions Bank’s net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock.











Under Alabama law, Regions Bank may not pay a dividend in excess of 90% of its net earnings until the bank’s surplus is equal to at least 20% of capital. Regions Bank is also required by Alabama law to seek the approval of the Alabama Superintendent of Banking prior to the payment of dividends if the total of all dividends declared by Regions Bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (a) Regions Bank’s net earnings for that year, plus (b) its retained net earnings for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. The statute defines net earnings as the remainder of all earnings from current operations plus actual recoveries on loans and investments and other assets, after deducting from the total thereof all current operating expenses, actual losses, accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, and all federal, state and local taxes. Regions Bank cannot, without approval from the Federal Reserve and the Alabama Superintendent of Banking, declare or pay a dividend to Regions unless Regions Bank is able to satisfy the criteria discussed above.

Payment of Dividends by Regions.  Regions’ payment of dividends is subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. In particular, the dividend policies and share repurchases of a large bank holding company, such as Regions, are reviewed by the Federal Reserve based on capital plans submitted as part of the CCAR process and stress tests as submitted by the bank holding company, and will be assessed against, among other things, the bank holding company’s ability to achieve the required capital ratios under the Basel III Capital Rules as they are phased in by U.S. regulators. See “-Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards” and “-Capital Requirements” above.

Support of Subsidiary Banks

Under longstanding Federal Reserve policy which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, Regions is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, its subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when Regions may not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Transactions with Affiliates

Deposit Insurance

Regions Bank accepts deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank’s federal regulatory agency.



Deposit Insurance Assessments.











include (i) a potential decrease of up to 5 basis points for certain long-term unsecured debt (“unsecured debt adjustment”) and (ii) (except for well-capitalized institutions with a CAMELS rating of 1 or 2) a potential increase of up to 10 basis points for brokered deposits in excess of 10% of domestic deposits (“brokered deposit adjustment”). As the DIF reserve ratio grows, the rate schedule will be adjusted downward. Additionally, the rule includes a new adjustment for depository institution debt whereby an institution will pay an additional premium equal to 50 basis points on every dollar (above 3% of an institution’s Tier 1 capital) of long-term, unsecured debt held that was issued by another insured depository institution, excluding debt guaranteed under the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The deposit insurance assessment base is calculated based on the average of consolidated total assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. During 2013, Regions Bank’s FDIC insurance expense was $125 million, a $37 million decrease from fiscal year 2012.

The FDIA establishes a minimum ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits, the designated reserve ratio (the “DRR”), of 1.15% prior to September 2020 and 1.35% thereafter. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule setting the DRR at 2%. The FDIC will, at least semi-annually, update its income and loss projections for the DIF and, if necessary, propose rules to further increase assessment rates. In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC announced that it would seek public comment on whether banks with compensation plans that encourage risky behavior should be charged higher deposit assessment rates than such banks would otherwise be charged. Comments were due February 18, 2010. As of February 2014, no rule has been adopted.



We cannot predict whether, as a result of an adverse change in economic conditions or other reasons, the FDIC will increase deposit insurance assessment levels in the future. For more information, see the “Deposit Administrative Fees” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

FICO Assessments.In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO will be in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. Regions Bank had a FICO assessment of approximately $7 million in FDIC deposit premiums in 2013, which was included in the $125 million in total FDIC insurance expense previously disclosed.

Acquisitions

The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. Bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion must (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain non-bank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Bank holding companies seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be well-capitalized and well-managed.

The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties’ performance under the CRA, both of which are discussed below. The Federal Reserve must also take into account the institutions’ effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHC Act was amended to require the Federal Reserve to, when evaluating a proposed transaction, consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system.

Depositor Preference

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver.











Incentive Compensation

Guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the FDIA prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder.

The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop. It cannot be determined at this time whether a final rule will be adopted and whether compliance with such a final rule will adversely affect the ability of Regions and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees.

Consumer Protection Laws

Regions is subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws, including laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their respective state law counterparts.

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new, independent federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which was granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes.  The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, their service providers and certain non-depository entities such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies.  The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products.  The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a “qualified mortgage” as defined by the CFPB.  The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations.

The CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules which impact nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage loan.  These rules implement the Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act.  Among other things, the rules adopted by the CFPB require banks to: (i) develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with a “reasonable ability to repay” test and identify whether a loan meets











a new definition for a “qualified mortgage,” in which case a rebuttable presumption exists that the creditor extending the loan has satisfied the reasonable ability to repay test; (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for originating and servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, pre-loan counseling, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation procedures for loans secured by a borrower's principal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan originator hiring and compensation; (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and certain financial products; and (v) maintain escrow accounts for higher-priced mortgage loans for a longer period of time. Regions is continuing to analyze the impact that such rules may have on its business.

Financial Privacy

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services.

Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA")

USA PATRIOT Act

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or











control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences.

Regulation of Insurers and Insurance Brokers

Regions’ operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Certain of Regions’ insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory supervision and to insurance laws and regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of capital, record keeping, reporting and examinations.

Competition

All aspects of Regions’ business are highly competitive. Regions’ subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions located in the states in which they operate and other adjoining states, as well as large banks in major financial centers and other financial intermediaries, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, Internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, mortgage companies and financial service operations of major commercial and retail corporations. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the sustained low interest rate and ongoing low-growth economic environment. Also, as banks in Regions' footprint act to attain compliance with the LCR, there is a chance deposit pricing, particularly long-term time deposits could become even more competitive .

Customers for banking services and other financial services offered by Regions’ subsidiaries are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, price of services and availability of products. Although Regions’ position varies in different markets, Regions believes that its affiliates effectively compete with other financial services companies in their relevant market areas.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013, Regions and its subsidiaries had 24,255 employees.

Available Information

Regions maintains a website atwww.regions.com. Regions makes available on its website free of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports which are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These documents are made available on Regions’ website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available on the website are Regions’ (i) Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, (iii) Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, and (iv) the charters of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Risk Committee.















