ITEM 1.   BUSINESS



GENERAL



Overview and Description of Subsidiaries



AEP was incorporated under the laws of the State of New York in 1906 and reorganized in 1925.  It is a public utility holding company that owns, directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding common stock of its public utility subsidiaries and varying percentages of other subsidiaries.



The service areas of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries cover portions of the states of Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia.  The generating and transmission facilities of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries are interconnected and their operations are coordinated.  Transmission networks are interconnected with extensive distribution facilities in the territories served.  The public utility subsidiaries of AEP have traditionally provided electric service, consisting of generation, transmission and distribution, on an integrated basis to their retail customers.  Restructuring legislation in Michigan, Ohio and the ERCOT area of Texas has caused AEP public utility subsidiaries in those states to unbundle previously integrated regulated rates for their retail customers.



The AEP System is an integrated electric utility system.  As a result, the member companies of the AEP System have contractual, financial and other business relationships with the other member companies, such as participation in the AEP System savings and retirement plans and tax returns, sales of electricity and transportation and handling of fuel.  The companies of the AEP System also obtain certain accounting, administrative, information systems, engineering, financial, legal, maintenance and other services at cost from a common provider, AEPSC.



At December 31, 2011, the subsidiaries of AEP had a total of 18,710 employees.  Because it is a holding company rather than an operating company, AEP has no employees.  The public utility subsidiaries of AEP are:



APCo



Organized in Virginia in 1926, APCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 960,000 retail customers in the southwestern portion of Virginia and southern West Virginia, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities and other market participants.  At December 31, 2011, APCo and its wholly owned subsidiaries had 2,176 employees.  Among the principal industries served by APCo are paper, rubber, coal mining, textile mill products and stone, clay and glass products.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, APCo is interconnected with the following nonaffiliated utility companies: Carolina Power & Light Company, Duke Carolina and Virginia Electric and Power Company.  APCo has several points of interconnection with TVA and has entered into agreements with TVA under which APCo and TVA interchange and transfer electric power over portions of their respective systems.  APCo is a member of PJM.



I&M



Organized in Indiana in 1907, I&M is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 582,000 retail customers in northern and eastern Indiana and southwestern Michigan, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and other market participants.  At December 31, 2011, I&M had 2,671 employees.  Among the principal industries served are primary metals, transportation equipment, electrical and electronic machinery, fabricated metal products, rubber and chemicals and allied products, rubber products and transportation equipment.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, I&M is interconnected with the following nonaffiliated utility companies: Central Illinois Public Service Company, Duke Ohio, Commonwealth Edison Company, Consumers Energy Company, Illinois Power Company, Indianapolis Power & Light Company, Louisville Gas and Electric Company, Northern Indiana Public Service Company, Duke Indiana and Richmond Power & Light Company.  I&M is a member of PJM.




KPCo



Organized in Kentucky in 1919, KPCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 173,000 retail customers in an area in eastern Kentucky, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities and other market participants.  At December 31, 2011, KPCo had 415 employees.  Among the principal industries served are petroleum refining, coal mining and chemical production.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, KPCo is interconnected with the following nonaffiliated utility companies: Kentucky Utilities Company and East Kentucky Power Cooperative Inc.  KPCo is also interconnected with TVA.  KPCo is a member of PJM.



KGPCo



Organized in Virginia in 1917, KGPCo provides electric service to approximately 47,000 retail customers in Kingsport and eight neighboring communities in northeastern Tennessee.  KGPCo does not own any generating facilities and is a member of PJM.  It purchases electric power from APCo for distribution to its customers.  At December 31, 2011, KGPCo had 50 employees.



OPCo



Organized in Ohio in 1907 and re-incorporated in 1924, OPCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 1,460,000 retail customers in Ohio, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities and other market participants.  At December 31, 2011, OPCo had 3,256 employees.  Among the principal industries served by OPCo are primary metals, chemicals and allied products, health services, electronic machinery, petroleum refining, and rubber and plastic products.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, OPCo is interconnected with the following nonaffiliated utility companies: Duke Ohio, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, Dayton Power and Light Company, Duquesne Light Company, Kentucky Utilities Company, Monongahela Power Company, Ohio Edison Company, The Toledo Edison Company and West Penn Power Company.  OPCo is a member of PJM.



On December 31, 2011, CSPCo merged with and into OPCo with OPCo being the surviving entity.  For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, all prior reported amounts have been recast as if the merger occurred on the first day of the earliest reporting period.  All contracts, subsidiaries and operations of CSPCo are now reflected as part of OPCo.



PSO



Organized in Oklahoma in 1913, PSO is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 532,000 retail customers in eastern and southwestern Oklahoma, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities, rural electric cooperatives and other market participants.  At December 31, 2011, PSO had 1,131 employees.  Among the principal industries served by PSO are paper manufacturing and timber products, natural gas and oil extraction, transportation, non-metallic mineral production, oil refining and steel processing.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, PSO is interconnected with Empire District Electric Company, Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, Southwestern Public Service Company and Westar Energy, Inc.  PSO is a member of SPP.



SWEPCo



Organized in Delaware in 1912, SWEPCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 521,000 retail customers in northeastern and panhandle of Texas, northwestern Louisiana and western Arkansas and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities, rural electric cooperatives and other market participants.  At December 31, 2011, SWEPCo had 1,462 employees.  Among the principal industries served by SWEPCo are natural gas and oil production, petroleum refining, manufacturing of pulp and paper, chemicals, food processing, and metal refining.  The territory served by SWEPCo also includes several military installations, colleges and universities.  SWEPCo also owns and operates a lignite coal mining operation.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, SWEPCo is interconnected with CLECO, Empire District Electric Company, Entergy Corp. and Oklahoma Gas & Electric Company.  SWEPCo is a member of SPP.






TCC



Organized in Texas in 1945, TCC is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 787,000 retail customers through REPs in southern Texas.  TCC has sold all of its generation assets.  At December 31, 2011, TCC had 997 employees.  Among the principal industries served by TCC are chemical and petroleum refining, chemicals and allied products, oil and gas extraction, food processing, metal refining, plastics and machinery equipment.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, TCC is a member of ERCOT.



TNC



Organized in Texas in 1927, TNC is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 186,000 retail customers through REPs in west and central Texas.  TNC’s generating capacity has been transferred to an affiliate at TNC’s cost pursuant to an agreement effective through 2027.  At December 31, 2011, TNC had 319 employees.  Among the principal industries served by TNC are petroleum refining, agriculture and the manufacturing or processing of cotton seed products, oil products, precision and consumer metal products, meat products and gypsum products.  The territory served by TNC also includes several military installations and correctional facilities.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, TNC is a member of ERCOT.



WPCo



Organized in West Virginia in 1883 and reincorporated in 1911, WPCo provides electric service to approximately 41,000 retail customers in northern West Virginia.  WPCo does not own any generating facilities.  WPCo is a member of PJM.  It purchases electric power from OPCo for distribution to its customers.  At December 31, 2011, WPCo had 52 employees.  In February 2012, WPCo filed an application with the FERC seeking authorization to merge with and into APCo.  The merger is expected to require the approval of the WVPSC and the Virginia SCC.



AEGCo



Organized in Ohio in 1982, AEGCo is an electric generating company.  AEGCo sells power at wholesale to OPCo, I&M and KPCo.  AEGCo has no employees.



Service Company Subsidiary



AEP also owns a service company subsidiary, AEPSC.  AEPSC provides accounting, administrative, information systems, engineering, financial, legal, maintenance and other services at cost to the AEP affiliated companies.  The executive officers of AEP and certain of its public utility subsidiaries are employees of AEPSC.  At December 31, 2011, AEPSC had 4,977 employees.






CLASSES OF SERVICE



The principal classes of service from which the public utility subsidiaries of AEP derive revenues and the amount of such revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011 are as follows:



DescriptionAEP System (a)APCoI&MOPCoPSOSWEPCo(in thousands)Utility OperationsRetail SalesResidential Sales$5,207,000$1,107,199$503,554$1,680,179$572,404$554,663Commercial Sales3,319,000535,040369,4711,077,742364,701411,652Industrial Sales2,953,000638,854412,562979,424241,026288,474PJM Net Charges(74,000)(23,696)(14,485)(30,768)--Provision for Rate Refund7,000-(461)6,035(158)1,604Other Retail Sales205,00064,7416,69317,71478,7228,118Total Retail11,617,0002,322,1381,277,3343,730,3261,256,6951,264,511WholesaleOff-System Sales2,067,000504,955499,291667,59342,241259,877Transmission187,000(19,723)(14,531)(26,697)31,90347,782Total Wholesale2,254,000485,232484,760640,89674,144307,659Other Electric Revenues161,00029,6498,35336,00814,71322,022Other Operating Revenues59,0009,94215,08618,3953,6442,019Sales to Affiliates-358,264429,2371,005,48614,19257,615Total Utility Operating Revenues14,091,0003,205,2252,214,7705,431,1111,363,3881,653,826Other1,025,000-----Total Revenues$15,116,000$3,205,225$2,214,770$5,431,111$1,363,388$1,653,826



(a)Includes revenues of other subsidiaries not shown.  Intercompany transactions have been eliminated for the year ended December 31, 2011.



FINANCING



General



Companies within the AEP System generally use short-term debt to finance working capital needs.  Short-term debt may also be used to finance acquisitions, construction and redemption or repurchase of outstanding securities until such needs can be financed with long-term debt.  In recent history, short-term funding needs have been provided for by cash on hand, borrowing under AEP's revolving credit agreements and AEP’s commercial paper program.  Funds are made available to subsidiaries under the AEP corporate borrowing program.  Certain public utility subsidiaries of AEP also sell accounts receivable to provide liquidity.  See “Financial Condition” section Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis, included in the 2011 Annual Reports, under the heading entitled Financial Condition for additional information concerning short-term funding and our access to bank lines of credit, commercial paper and capital markets.



AEP’s revolving credit agreements (which backstop the commercial paper program) include covenants and events of default typical for this type of facility, including a maximum debt/capital test and, for AEP and its significant subsidiaries, a $50 million cross-acceleration provision.  At December 31, 2011, AEP was in compliance with its debt covenants.  With the exception of a voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency, any event of default has either or both a cure period or notice requirement before termination of the agreements.  A voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency of AEP or one of its significant subsidiaries would be considered an immediate termination event.  See Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis, included in the 2011 Annual Reports, under the heading entitled Financial Condition for additional information with respect to AEP’s credit agreements.



AEP’s subsidiaries have also utilized, and expect to continue to utilize, additional financing arrangements, such as securitization financings, leasing arrangements, including the leasing of coal transportation equipment and facilities.






ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MATTERS



General



AEP’s subsidiaries are currently subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities with regard to air and water-quality control and other environmental matters, and are subject to zoning and other regulation by local authorities.  The environmental issues that we believe are potentially material to the AEP system are outlined below.



Clean Air Act Requirements



The CAA establishes a comprehensive program to protect and improve the nation’s air quality and control mobile and stationary sources of air emissions.  The major CAA programs affecting our power plants are described below.  The states implement and administer many of these programs and could impose additional or more stringent requirements.



The Acid Rain Program



The 1990 Amendments to the CAA include a cap-and-trade emission reduction program for SO2emissions from power plants.  By 2000, the program established a nationwide cap on power plant SO2emissions of 8.9 million tons per year.  The 1990 Amendments also contain requirements for power plants to reduce NOxemissions through the use of available combustion controls.



The success of the SO2cap-and-trade program encouraged the Federal EPA and the states to use it as a model for other emission reduction programs.  We continue to meet our obligations under the Acid Rain Program through the installation of controls, use of alternate fuels and participation in the emissions allowance markets.  Subsequent programs developed by the Federal EPA have imposed more stringent SO2and NOx emission reduction requirements than the Acid Rain Program on many of our facilities.  We have installed additional controls and taken other actions to achieve compliance with these programs.



National Ambient Air Quality Standards



The CAA requires the Federal EPA to review the available scientific data for criteria pollutants periodically and establish a concentration level in the ambient air for those substances that is adequate to protect the public health and welfare with an extra safety margin.  The Federal EPA also can list additional pollutants and develop concentration levels for them.  These concentration levels are known as national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS).



Each state identifies the areas within its boundaries that meet the NAAQS (attainment areas) and those that do not (nonattainment areas).  Each state must develop a state implementation plan (SIP) to bring nonattainment areas into compliance with the NAAQS and maintain good air quality in attainment areas.  All SIPs are submitted to the Federal EPA for approval.  If a state fails to develop adequate plans, the Federal EPA develops and implements a plan.  As the Federal EPA reviews the NAAQS and establishes new concentration levels, the attainment status of areas can change and states may be required to develop new SIPs.  In 2008, the Federal EPA issued revised NAAQS for both ozone and fine particulate matter (PM2.5).  The PM2.5standard was remanded by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, and a new standard is under development.  A new ozone standard is also under development and is expected to be finalized in 2013.  The Federal EPA also adopted a new short-term standard for SO2in 2010,a lower standard for NO2in 2010, and a lower standard for lead in 2008.  The existing standard for carbon monoxide was retained in 2011.  The states will develop new SIPs for these standards, which could result in additional emission reductions being required from our facilities.



In 2005, the Federal EPA issued the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which requires additional reductions in SO2and NOxemissions from power plants and assists states developing new SIPs to meet the NAAQS.  For additional information regarding CAIR, see Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis under the headings entitled Environmental Matters – Clean Air Act Requirements.  In August 2011, the Federal EPA issued a final rule to replace CAIR (the Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR)) that would impose new and more stringent requirements to control SO2and NOxemissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units in 27 states and the District of Columbia.  Petitions for review were filed with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia








Circuit, and CSAPR was stayed.  CAIR remains in effect until further order from the court.  For additional information regarding CSAPR, see Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis under the headings entitled Environmental Matters – Clean Air Act Requirements.



Hazardous Air Pollutants



As a result of the 1990 Amendments to the CAA, the Federal EPA investigated hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions from the electric utility sector and submitted a report to Congress, identifying mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants as warranting further study.  In 2011, the Federal EPA issued a final rule setting Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards for new and existing coal and oil-fired utility units and New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for emissions from new and modified power plants.  For additional information regarding the Utility MACT, see Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis under the headings entitled Environmental Matters – Clean Air Act Requirements.



Regional Haze



The CAA establishes visibility goals for certain federally designated areas, including national parks, and requires states to submit SIPs that will demonstrate reasonable progress toward preventing impairment of visibility in these areas (Regional Haze program).  In 2005, the Federal EPA issued its Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR), detailing how the CAA’s best available retrofit technology requirements will be applied to facilities built between 1962 and 1977 that emit more than 250 tons per year of certain pollutants in specific industrial categories, including power plants.  For additional information regarding CAVR, see Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis under the headings entitled Environmental Matters – Clean Air Act Requirements.



In December 2011, the Federal EPA issued a partial approval and partial disapproval of the Oklahoma SIP for Regional Haze, and a Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) for the SO2requirements that were disapproved.  The Federal EPA has also proposed to disapprove thebest available retrofit technologydeterminations for the coal-fired power plants in Arkansas, but has not proposed a FIP for these units.  The requirements of the FIP that apply to our Oklahoma units impose significantly greater costs than would have been incurred under the Oklahoma SIP.  We are unable to predict whether a FIP will be developed to satisfy CAVR in Arkansas or how it may affect our compliance obligations for the Regional Haze program.



Greenhouse Gas Emissions



In the absence of comprehensive climate change legislation, the Federal EPA has taken action to regulate CO2emissions under the existing requirements of the CAA.  Such actions are being legally challenged by numerous parties.  For additional information regarding the Federal EPA action taken to regulate CO2emissions, see Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis under the headings entitled Environmental Matters – Clean Air Act Requirements.



Our fossil fuel-fired generating units are large sources of CO2emissions.  If substantial CO2emission reductions are required, there will be significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs which would hasten the ultimate retirement of older, less-efficient, coal-fired units.  To the extent we install additional controls on our generating plants to limit CO2emissions and receive regulatory approvals to increase our rates, return on capital investment would have a positive effect on future earnings.  Prudently incurred capital investments made by our subsidiaries in rate-regulated jurisdictions to comply with legal requirements and benefit customers are generally included in rate base for recovery and earn a return on investment.  We would expect these principles to apply to investments made to address new environmental requirements.  However, requests for rate increases reflecting these costs can affect us adversely because our regulators could limit the amount or timing of increased costs that we would recover through higher rates.  To the extent our costs are relatively higher than our competitors’ costs, such as operators of nuclear generation, it could reduce our off-system sales or cause us to lose customers in jurisdictions that permit customers to choose their supplier of generation service.




Several states have adopted programs that directly regulate CO2emissions from power plants, but none of these programs are currently in effect in states where we have generating facilities.  Certain states, including Ohio, Michigan, Texas and Virginia, passed legislation establishing renewable energy, alternative energy and/or energy efficiency requirements.  We are taking steps to comply with these requirements primarily through entering into power supply agreements giving us access to power generated by wind turbines.



Clean Water Act Requirements



Our operations are also subject to the Federal Clean Water Act, which prohibits the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States except pursuant to appropriate permits, and regulates systems that withdraw surface water for use in our power plants.  In April 2011, the Federal EPA issued a proposed rule setting forth standards for existing power plants that will reduce mortality of aquatic organisms pinned against a plant’s cooling water intake screen (impingement) or entrained in the cooling water.  The proposed standards affect all plants withdrawing more than two million gallons of cooling water per day and establish specific intake design and intake velocity standards meant to allow fish to avoid or escape impingement.  Compliance with this standard is required within eight years of the effective date of the final rule.  The proposed standard for entrainment for existing facilities requires a site-specific evaluation of the available measures for reducing entrainment.  We submitted comments on the proposal in July and August 2011.



In July 2007, the Federal EPA affirmed the requirement that permitting agencies develop best professional judgment (BPJ) controls for existing facility cooling water intake structures that reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact.  The result is that the BPJ control standard for cooling water intake structures in effect prior to the rule is used as the applicable standard by permitting agencies pending finalization of revised rules by the Federal EPA.



In April 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision that allows the Federal EPA the discretion to rely on cost-benefit analysis in setting national performance standards and in providing for cost-benefit variances from those standards as part of the regulations.  We cannot predict if or how the Federal EPA will apply this decision to any revision of the regulations or what effect it may have on similar requirements adopted by the states.  We expect the Federal EPA to issue revised rules in 2012.



The Federal EPA is also engaged in rulemaking to update the technology-based standards that govern discharges from new and existing power plants under the Clean Water Act’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program.  These standards were last updated over 20 years ago, and the Federal EPA has issued two rounds of information collection requests to inform its rulemaking.  In October 2009, the Federal EPA issued a final report for the power plant sector and determined that revisions to its existing standards are necessary, but the Federal EPA has not yet proposed any specific requirements.  Until new standards are proposed, we cannot predict the outcome or impact of these rules on our operations.



Coal Ash Regulation






Greenhouse Gases – Position and Strategy



CO


CO


CO


CO


CO





For additional information on legislative and regulatory responses to greenhouse gases, including limitations onCO2emissions, see Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis under the headings entitled Environmental Matters – Global Warming.  Specific steps taken to reduceCO2emissions include the following:



Renewable Sources of Energy



Some of our states have laws or commission orders that establish requirements or goals for renewable and/or alternative energy (Louisiana, Ohio, Arkansas, Michigan, West Virginia, Texas, Indiana, Virginia and Oklahoma) and we are taking steps to comply with these rules in a timely fashion.  A key sustainability commitment we made was to increase renewable power by an additional 2,000 MW from 2007 levels by 2011, subject to regulatory approval.  By the end of 2011, AEP secured only 1,500 MW of renewable power through power purchase agreements.



End User Energy Efficiency



Energy efficiency is a high priority for AEP because it can be a cost-effective way to reduce energy demand and potentially delay the need for new power plants. We work collaboratively with regulators, technical experts, environmental groups and others to develop and implement efficiency and demand response programs.  From 2008 through 2011, we have achieved approximately 716 MW and 1,972,000 MWH of demand and energy reductions, respectively.  We have an internal goal to reduce 1,000 MW of demand and 2,250,000 MWH of energy consumption by year-end 2012. We expect to surpass our energy reduction goal subject to regulatory approvals, appropriate cost recovery, and continued customer demand for programs.  In 2011, we invested over $115 million throughout most of our service territory in energy efficiency and demand response initiatives.








gridSMART®



AEP’sgridSMART®initiative is designed to demonstrate the potential benefits of the smart grid by integrating advanced grid technologies into existing electric networks.  AEP is deploying smart grid technologies in several jurisdictions with regulatory support.



·AEP Ohio is deploying a comprehensive suite of smart grid technologies in an innovative demonstration project with 110,000 customers.  The $150 million project is being funded through a $75 million federal grant, PUCO cost recovery support and vendor in-kind contributions.

·AEP Texas is deploying a one million meter smart grid network, along with $1 million in energy use display devices for low income customers.  The $308 million project is targeted for completion by the end of 2013.  We are recovering the costs through an 11-year surcharge.

·I&M has deployed a smart grid network to 10,000 customers.  The $7 million project was funded pursuant to a settlement agreement approved by the IURC.

·PSO is deploying a smart meter network and grid management technologies to approximately 14,000 customers.  The project is being financed through an $8.75 million American Reinvestment and Recovery Act low-interest loan from the Oklahoma Department of Commerce with $2 million annual revenues for cost recovery approved by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission.



Current and Projected CO2Emission



Our total CO2emissions in 2010 (including our ownership in the Kyger Creek and Clifty Creek plants) were approximately 140 million metric tons.  Our 2011 emissions remained flat at approximately 141 million metric tons.  We expect overall increases in CO2emissions during the next few years to be small, if any, as our sales and generation rebound somewhat from recession lows in 2009.  However, over much of the remainder of the decade we expect emissions to decline as modest sales growth is offset by retirements of older, less efficient coal-fired units and increased utilization of natural gas.



Corporate Governance



Our Board of Directors continually reviews the risks posed by and our actions in response to environmental issues and in connection with its assessment of our strategic plan.  The Board of Directors is frequently informed of any new material environmental issues, including changes to regulations and proposed legislation.  The Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance oversees the company’s annual Corporate Accountability Report, which includes information on environmental issues.



Other Environmental Issues and Matters



·Litigation with the federal and/or certain state governments and certain special interest groups regarding regulated air emissions and/or whether emissions from coal-fired generating plants cause or contribute to global warming.  See Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis under the heading entitled Litigation – Environmental Litigation and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies, included in the 2011 Annual Reports, for further information.

·CERCLA, which imposes costs for environmental remediation upon owners and previous owners of sites, as well as transporters and generators of hazardous material disposed of at such sites.  See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies, included in the 2011 Annual Reports, under the heading entitled The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund) and State Remediation for further information.



Environmental Investments



Investments related to improving AEP System plants’ environmental performance and compliance with air and water quality standards during 2009, 2010 and 2011 and the current estimates for 2012, 2013 and 2014 are shown below, in each case excluding equity AFUDC and capitalized interest.  Estimated construction expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental regulations, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends and the ability to access




capital.  AEP expects to make substantial investments in future years in addition to the amounts set forth below in connection with the modification and addition of facilities at generating plants for environmental quality controls.  Such future investments are needed in order to comply with air and water quality standards that have been adopted and have deadlines for compliance after 2011 or have been proposed and may be adopted.  Future investments could be significantly greater if emissions reduction requirements are accelerated or otherwise become more onerous or if CO2becomes regulated.  While we expect to recover our expenditures for pollution control technologies, replacement generation and associated operating costs from customers through regulated rates (in regulated jurisdictions) or market prices, without such recovery those costs could adversely affect future results of operations and cash flows, and possibly financial condition.  The cost of complying with applicable environmental laws, regulations and rules is expected to be material to the AEP System.  See Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis under the heading entitled Environmental Matters and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies, included in the 2011 Annual Reports, for more information regarding environmental expenditures in general.



Historical and Projected Environmental Investments200920102011201220132014ActualActualActualEstimateEstimateEstimate(in thousands)Total AEP System (a)$457,200$303,800$186,800$510,700$999,000$1,100,000APCo191,900202,70068,90077,60077,70080,300I&M19,6008,1005,90089,800148,200148,000OPCo224,80097,40063,000122,800187,300128,700PSO1,0001,2006,50043,400134,600164,600SWEPCo (b)10,700(10,500)11,00075,700230,500288,100



(a)Includes expenditures of the subsidiaries shown and other subsidiaries not shown.  The figures reflect construction expenditures, not equity investments in subsidiary companies.  Excludes discontinued operations.

(b)SWEPCo 2010 actual environmental cost includes reclassifications of project costs for suspended capital projects.



Electric and Magnetic Fields



EMF are found everywhere there is electricity.  Electric fields are created by the presence of electric charges.  Magnetic fields are produced by the flow of those charges.  This means that EMF are created by electricity flowing in transmission and distribution lines, electrical equipment, household wiring and appliances.  A number of studies in the past have examined the possibility of adverse health effects from EMF.  While some of the epidemiological studies have indicated some association between exposure to EMF and health effects, none has produced any conclusive evidence that EMF does or does not cause adverse health effects.



Management cannot predict the ultimate impact of the question of EMF exposure and adverse health effects.  If further research shows that EMF exposure contributes to increased risk of cancer or other health problems, or if the courts conclude that EMF exposure harms individuals and that utilities are liable for damages, or if states limit the strength of magnetic fields to such a level that the current electricity delivery system must be significantly changed, then the results of operations and financial condition of AEP and its operating subsidiaries could be materially adversely affected unless these costs can be recovered from customers.



UTILITY OPERATIONS



GENERAL



Utility operations constitute most of AEP’s business operations.  Utility operations include (a) the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to retail customers and (b) the supplying and marketing of electric power at wholesale (through the electric generation function) to other electric utility companies, municipalities and other market participants.  AEPSC, as agent for AEP’s public utility subsidiaries, performs marketing, generation dispatch, fuel procurement and power-related risk management and trading activities.






ELECTRIC GENERATION



Facilities



As of December 31, 2011, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries owned or leased approximately 37,000 MW of domestic generation.  See Item 2 – Properties for more information regarding AEP’s generation capacity.



AEP Power Pool





PeakDemandMember-Load Ratio(MWs)(%)APCo7,24830.5I&M4,83720.4KPCo1,5226.4OPCo10,14842.7



APCo, I&M, KPCo and OPCo are parties to the AEP System Interim Allowance Agreement (Allowance Agreement), which has been approved by the FERC and provides, among other things, for the transfer of SO2emission allowances associated with transactions under the Interconnection Agreement.  The following table shows the net (credits) or charges allocated among the parties under the Interconnection Agreement during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:



201120102009(in thousands)APCo$632,100$757,900$668,700I&M(183,700)(236,900)(100,900)KPCo48,40049,40031,600OPCo(496,800)(570,400)(599,400)








Notification of Termination of the AEP Power Pool



The regulatory landscape and business environment have changed extensively since the Interconnection Agreement was originally executed in 1951.  These changes include:



·Evolving environmental regulations.·The introduction of “open access” to transmission facilities.·The implementation of RTOs, including PJM, which is a robust generation power pool that has generating capacity of over 167,000 MWs.·Movement towards industry deregulation.·The planned separation of OPCo’s generation and power marketing businesses from its transmission and distribution businesses.·Increased competition in wholesale generation markets.·The effects of these changes on such things as costs, load and the array of supply and demand-side resources available to the AEP-East operating companies today.



Consequently, in December 2010, each AEP Power Pool member gave written notice to the other members, and AEPSC, the Pool’s agent, of its decision to terminate the Interconnection Agreement, effective January 1, 2014 or such other date as approved by FERC, subject to state regulatory input.  The Pool Agreement members unanimously have agreed to waive the full three-year notice provision.  Because the Interconnection Agreement is a rate schedule on file at FERC, its termination will not be effective until accepted for filing by FERC.  Final resolution could involve bilateral contracts or sales of generating assets from surplus members to deficit members.



Additionally, the AEP East companies have decided to terminate the Allowance Agreement.



CSW Operating Agreement



PSO, SWEPCo and AEPSC are parties to the CSW Operating Agreement, which has been approved by the FERC.  The CSW Operating Agreement requires these public utility subsidiaries to maintain adequate annual planning reserve margins and requires the subsidiaries that have capacity in excess of the required margins to make such capacity available for sale to other public utility subsidiary parties as capacity commitments.  Parties are compensated for energy delivered to the recipients based upon the deliverer’s incremental cost plus a portion of the recipient’s savings realized by the purchaser that avoids the use of more costly alternatives.  Revenues and costs arising from third party sales in their region are generally shared based on the amount of energy each west zone public utility subsidiary contributes that is sold to third parties.



The following table shows the net (credits) or charges allocated among the parties under the CSW Operating Agreement during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:



201120102009(in thousands)PSO$33,091$20,222$(22,762)SWEPCo(33,091)(20,222)22,762



Power generated by or allocated or provided under the Interconnection Agreement or CSW Operating Agreement to any public utility subsidiary is primarily sold to customers by such public utility subsidiary at rates approved by the public utility commission in the jurisdiction of sale.  See Regulation – Rates under Item 1, Utility Operations.



Under both the Interconnection Agreement and CSW Operating Agreement, power that is not needed to serve the native load of our public utility subsidiaries is sold in the wholesale market by AEPSC on behalf of those subsidiaries.  See Risk Management and Trading, below, for a discussion of the trading and marketing of such power.AEP’s System Integration Agreement provides for the integration and coordination of AEP’s East companies, PSO and SWEPCo.  This includes joint dispatch of generation within the AEP System and the distribution, between the two zones, of costs and benefits associated with the transfers of power between the two zones (including sales to








third parties and risk management and trading activities).  It is designed to function as an umbrella agreement in addition to the Interconnection Agreement and the CSW Operating Agreement, each of which controls the distribution of costs and benefits for activities within each zone.



Risk Management and Trading



As agent for AEP’s public utility subsidiaries, AEPSC sells excess power into the market and engages in power, natural gas, coal and emissions allowances risk management and trading activities focused in regions in which AEP traditionally operates and in adjacent regions.  These activities primarily involve the purchase and sale of electricity (and to a lesser extent, natural gas, coal and emissions allowances) under physical forward contracts at fixed and variable prices.  These contracts include physical transactions, over-the-counter swaps and exchange-traded futures and options.  The majority of physical forward contracts are typically settled by netting into offsetting contracts.  These transactions are executed with numerous counterparties or on exchanges.  Counterparties and exchanges may require cash or cash related instruments to be deposited on these transactions as margin against open positions.  As of December 31, 2011, counterparties have posted approximately $16 million in cash, cash equivalents or letters of credit with AEPSC for the benefit of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries (while, as of that date, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries had posted approximately$171 million with counterparties and exchanges).  Since open trading contracts are valued based on market prices of various commodities, exposures change daily.

See Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis, included in the 2011 Annual Reports, under the heading entitled Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Risk Management Activities for additional information.



Fuel Supply



The following table shows the sources of fuel used by the AEP System:



Years Ended December 31,201120102009Coal and Lignite78%82%88%Natural Gas11%8%6%Nuclear10%9%5%Hydroelectric and other<1%<1%1%



Price increases in one or more fuel sources relative to other fuels may result in increased use of other fuels.  The decreased generation of nuclear power in 2009 is primarily related to a 2008 forced outage caused by a low pressure turbine blade failure event and the impacted unit coming back on line in 2010.



Coal and Lignite



AEP’s public utility subsidiaries procure coal and lignite under a combination of purchasing arrangements including long-term contracts, affiliate operations and spot agreements with various producers and coal trading firms.  Coal consumption was in line with the projected fuel usage in 2011 and coal inventories ended 2011 near target levels.



Management believes that AEP’s public utility subsidiaries will be able to secure and transport coal and lignite of adequate quality and in adequate quantities to operate their coal and lignite-fired units.  Through its public utility subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2011, AEP owned, leased or controlled more than 7,600 railcars, 634 barges, 16 towboats and a coal handling terminal with 18 million tons of annual capacity to move and store coal for use in our generating facilities.  See AEP River Operations for a discussion of AEP’s for-profit coal and other dry-bulk commodity transportation operations that are not part of AEP’s Utility Operations segment.



Spot market prices for certain coals utilized by AEP fluctuated in a fairly narrow band throughout much of the year, but softened noticeably in the fourth quarter.  The general increase in spot coal prices seen over the past few years has been supported by higher international demand for U.S. coals, and increased mining costs related to regulatory and permitting issues.  Most of the coal purchased by AEP is procured through term contracts.  The price paid under a number of these contracts is often lower than the spot market price for similar coal.  As term contracts expire they are replaced with new agreements, often at higher prices.  The price paid for coal delivered in 2011 increased from the prior year, reflective of market price trending.




The following table shows the amount of coal and lignite delivered to the AEP System plants during the past three years and the average delivered price of coal purchased by AEP System companies:



Years Ended December 31,201120102009Total Coal Delivered to AEP System Plants (thousands of tons)62,95664,61475,909Average Price per Ton of Purchased Coal$46.76$44.82$49.54



The coal supplies at AEP System plants vary from time to time depending on various factors, including, but not limited to, demand for electric power, unit outages, transportation infrastructure limitations, space limitations, plant coal consumption rates, availability of acceptable coals, labor issues and weather conditions which may interrupt production or deliveries.  At December 31, 2011, the System’s coal inventory was approximately 39 days of full load burn.



In cases of emergency or shortage, AEP has developed programs to conserve coal supplies at its plants.  Such programs have been filed and reviewed with federally approved electric reliability organizations.  In some cases, the relevant state regulatory agency has prescribed actions to be taken under specified circumstances by System companies, subject to the jurisdiction of such agency.



The FERC has adopted regulations relating, among other things, to the circumstances under which, in the event of fuel emergencies or shortages, it might order electric utilities to generate and transmit electric power to other regions or systems experiencing fuel shortages, and to ratemaking principles by which such electric utilities would be compensated.  In addition, the federal government is authorized, under prescribed conditions, to reallocate coal and to require the transportation thereof, for the use at power plants or major fuel-burning installations experiencing fuel shortages.



Natural Gas



Through its public utility subsidiaries, AEP consumed nearly 167 billion cubic feet of natural gas during 2011 for generating power.  This represents an increase of 25% from 2010 and continues a trend that began in 2010 when AEP’s natural gas consumption increased 40% above the 2009 level.  The increased natural gas consumption is primarily due to the addition of the Stall natural gas combined cycle unit at SWEPCo in June 2010, along with increased operation of the Lawrenceburg and Waterford combined cycle units in the East.  APCo’s Dresden Plant, a new 580 MW combined-cycle natural gas generating unit in Ohio, was completed and placed in service in January 2012.  The efficient heat rates of these units coupled with sustained lower natural gas prices have supported the increased operation of AEP’s combined cycle natural gas units during 2011.  Increased production from shale gas development continues to place downward pressure on natural gas prices as a result of more abundant supplies, making power generated from these units more economic.  Many of the natural gas-fired power plants are connected to at least two pipelines, which allows greater access to competitive supplies and improves delivery reliability.  A portfolio of term, monthly, seasonal firm and daily peaking purchase and transportation agreements (that are entered into on a competitive basis and based on market prices) supplies natural gas requirements for each plant, as appropriate.



The following table shows the amount of natural gas delivered to the AEP System plants during the past three years and the average delivered price of natural gas purchased by AEP System companies:Years Ended December 31,201120102009Total Natural Gas Delivered to AEP System Plants (BCFs)166.8133.695.7Average Price per MMBtu of Purchased Natural Gas$4.48$4.80$4.17


Nuclear



I&M has made commitments to meet the current nuclear fuel requirements of the Cook Plant.  I&M has made and will make purchases of uranium in various forms in the spot, short-term, and mid-term markets.  I&M also continues to lease a portion of its nuclear fuel.



For purposes of the storage of high-level radioactive waste in the form of spent nuclear fuel, I&M completed modifications to its spent nuclear fuel storage pool more than 10 years ago.  I&M anticipates that the Cook Plant has sufficient storage capacity for its spent nuclear fuel to permit normal operations through 2013.  I&M has entered into an agreement to provide for onsite dry cask storage.  Initial loading of spent nuclear fuel into the dry casks is scheduled to begin in 2012.



Nuclear Waste and Decommissioning



As the owner of the Cook Plant, I&M has a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and decommission and decontaminate the plant safely.  The cost to decommission a nuclear plant is affected by NRC regulations and the spent nuclear fuel disposal program.  In 2009, when the most recent study was done, the estimated cost of decommissioning and disposal of low-level radioactive waste for the Cook Plant ranged from $831 million to $1.5 billion in 2009 non-discounted dollars.  At December 31, 2011, the total decommissioning trust fund balance for the Cook Plant was approximately $1.3 billion.  The balance of funds available to decommission Cook Plant will differ based on contributions and investment returns.  The ultimate cost of retiring the Cook Plant may be materially different from estimates and funding targets as a result of the:



·Type of decommissioning plan selected.

·Escalation of various cost elements (including, but not limited to, general inflation and the cost of energy).

·Further development of regulatory requirements governing decommissioning.

·Technology available at the time of decommissioning differing significantly from that assumed in studies.

·Availability of nuclear waste disposal facilities.

·Availability of a DOE facility for permanent storage of spent nuclear fuel.



Accordingly, management is unable to provide assurance that the ultimate cost of decommissioning the Cook Plant will not be significantly different than current projections.  We will seek recovery from customers through our regulated rates if actual decommissioning costs exceed our projections.  See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies under the heading Nuclear Contingencies, included in the 2011 Annual Reports, for information with respect to nuclear waste and decommissioning.



Low-Level Radioactive Waste



The LLWPA mandates that the responsibility for the disposal of low-level radioactive waste rests with the individual states.  Low-level radioactive waste consists largely of ordinary refuse and other items that have come in contact with radioactive materials.  Michigan does not currently have a disposal site for such waste available.  I&M cannot predict when such a site may be available, but Utah licenses a low-level radioactive waste disposal site which currently accepts low-level radioactive waste from Michigan.  I&M ships some of its low level waste to a facility in Utah.  There is currently no set date limiting I&M’s access to the Utah facility.  I&M stores the remaining type of low-level waste onsite.  In order to have capacity for the duration of its licensed operation of Cook Plant for onsite storage of waste not shipped to Utah, I&M will have to modify its existing facilities sometime in the next ten to fifteen years.



Structured Arrangements Involving Capacity, Energy and Ancillary ServicesIn January 2000, OPCo and NPC, an affiliate of Buckeye, entered into an agreement relating to the construction and operation of a 510 MW gas-fired electric generating peaking facility to be owned by NPC, called the Mone Plant.  OPCo is entitled to 100% of the power generated by the Mone Plant, and is responsible for the fuel and other costs of the facility through May 2012, as extended.  Following that, NPC and OPCo will be entitled to 80% and 20%, respectively, of the power of the Mone Plant, and both parties will generally be responsible for their allocable portion of the fuel and other costs of the facility.






Certain Power Agreements



I&M



The Unit Power Agreement between AEGCo and I&M, dated March 31, 1982, provides for the sale by AEGCo to I&M of all the capacity (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo at the Rockport Plant.  Whether or not power is available from AEGCo, I&M is obligated to pay a demand charge for the right to receive such power (and an energy charge for any associated energy taken by I&M).  The agreement will continue in effect until the last of the lease terms of Unit 2 of the Rockport Plant has expired (currently December 2022) unless extended in specified circumstances.



Pursuant to an assignment between I&M and KPCo, and a unit power agreement between KPCo and AEGCo, AEGCo sells KPCo 30% of the capacity (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo from both units of the Rockport Plant.  KPCo has agreed to pay to AEGCo the amounts that I&M would have paid AEGCo under the terms of the Unit Power Agreement between AEGCo and I&M for such entitlement.  The KPCo unit power agreement expires in December 2022.



OPCo



The Unit Power Agreement between AEGCo and OPCo dated March 15, 2007, provides for the sale by AEGCo to OPCo of all the capacity and associated unit contingent energy and ancillary services available to OPCo from the Lawrenceburg Plant.  OPCo is obligated to pay a capacity charge (whether or not power is available from the Lawrenceburg Plant), and the fuel, operating and maintenance charges associated with the energy dispatched by OPCo, and to reimburse AEGCo for other costs associated with the operation and ownership of the Lawrenceburg Plant.  The agreement will continue in effect until December 31, 2017 unless extended as set forth in the agreement.



OVEC










ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION



General



AEP’s public utility subsidiaries (other than AEGCo) own and operate transmission and distribution lines and other facilities to deliver electric power.  See Item 2 – Properties for more information regarding the transmission and distribution lines.  Most of the transmission and distribution services are sold, in combination with electric power, to retail customers of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries in their service territories.  These sales are made at rates approved by the state utility commissions of the states in which they operate, and in some instances, approved by the FERC.  See Item 1 – Utility Operations – Regulation – Rates.  The FERC regulates and approves the rates for wholesale transmission transactions.  See Item 1 – Utility Operations – Regulation – FERC.  As discussed below, some transmission services also are separately sold to non-affiliated companies.



AEP’s public utility subsidiaries (other than AEGCo) hold franchises or other rights to provide electric service in various municipalities and regions in their service areas.  In some cases, these franchises provide the utility with the exclusive right to provide electric service.  These franchises have varying provisions and expiration dates.  In general, the operating companies consider their franchises to be adequate for the conduct of their business.  For a discussion of competition in the sale of power, see Item 1 – Utility Operations – Competition.



The use and the recovery of costs associated with the transmission assets of the AEP East companies, including WPCo and KGPCo, are subject to the rules, protocols and agreements in place with PJM and as approved by the FERC.



Transmission Coordination Agreement, OATT, and ERCOT Protocols



PSO, SWEPCo and AEPSC are parties to the TCA.  Under the TCA, a coordinating committee is charged with the responsibility of (a) overseeing the coordinated planning of the transmission facilities of the parties to the agreement, including the performance of transmission planning studies, (b) the interaction of such subsidiaries with independent system operators and other regional bodies interested in transmission planning and (c) compliance with the terms of the OATT filed with the FERC and the rules of the FERC relating to such tariff.  Pursuant to the TCA, AEPSC has responsibility for monitoring the reliability of their transmission systems and administering the OATT on behalf of the other parties to the agreement.  The TCA also provides for the allocation among the parties of revenues collected for transmission and ancillary services provided under the OATT.  These allocations have been determined by the FERC-approved OATT for the SPP (with respect to PSO and SWEPCo) and PUCT-approved protocols for ERCOT (with respect to TCC and TNC).



The following table shows the net (credits) or charges allocated pursuant to the TCA, SPP OATT and ERCOT protocols as described above for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:



Years Ended December 31,201120102009(in thousands)PSO$9,000$10,500$11,000SWEPCo(9,000)(10,500)(11,000)TCC2,1002,1001,700TNC(2,100)(2,100)(1,700)



Transmission Services for Non-Affiliates



In addition to providing transmission services in connection with their own power sales, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries through RTOs also provide transmission services for non-affiliated companies.  See Item 1 – Utility Operations – Electric Transmission and Distribution – Regional Transmission Organizations, below.  Transmission of electric power by AEP’s public utility subsidiaries is regulated by the FERC.


Coordination of East and West Zone Transmission



AEP’s System Transmission Integration Agreement provides for the integration and coordination of the planning, operation and maintenance of the transmission facilities of AEP East and AEP West companies.  The System Transmission Integration Agreement functions as an umbrella agreement in addition to the TA and the TCA.  AEP’s System Transmission Integration Agreement contains two service schedules that govern:



·The allocation of transmission costs and revenues.

·The allocation of third-party transmission costs and revenues and System dispatch costs.



The System Transmission Integration Agreement contemplates that additional service schedules may be added as circumstances warrant.



Regional Transmission Organizations



The AEP East Companies are members of PJM, and SWEPCo and PSO are members of the SPP (both FERC-approved RTOs).  RTOs operate, plan and control utility transmission assets in a manner designed to provide open access to such assets in a way that prevents discrimination between participants owning transmission assets and those that do not.  The remaining AEP West companies (TCC and TNC) are members of ERCOT.



REGULATION



General



Except for transmission and/or retail generation sales in certain of its jurisdictions, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries’ retail rates and certain other matters are subject to traditional cost-based regulation by the state utility commissions.  AEP’s subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FERC under the FPA with respect to wholesale power and transmission service transactions as well as certain unbundled retail transmission rates mainly in Ohio.  I&M is subject to regulation by the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect to the operation of the Cook Plant.  AEP and its public utility subsidiaries are also subject to the regulatory provisions of EPACT, much of which is administered by the FERC.  EPACT provides the FERC limited “backstop” transmission siting authority as well as increased utility merger oversight.



Rates



Historically, state utility commissions have established electric service rates on a cost-of-service basis, which is designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover its cost of providing service and to earn a reasonable return on its investment used in providing that service.  A utility’s cost of service generally reflects its operating expenses, including operation and maintenance expense, depreciation expense and taxes.  State utility commissions periodically adjust rates pursuant to a review of (a) a utility’s adjusted revenues and expenses during a defined test period and (b) such utility’s level of investment.  Absent a legal limitation, such as a law limiting the frequency of rate changes or capping rates for a period of time, a state utility commission can review and change rates on its own initiative.  Some states may initiate reviews at the request of a utility, customer, governmental or other representative of a group of customers.  Such parties may, however, agree with one another not to request reviews of or changes to rates for a specified period of time.



Public utilities have traditionally financed capital investments until the new asset is placed in service.  Provided the asset was found to be a prudent investment, it was then added to rate base and entitled to a return through rate recovery.  Given long lead times in construction, the high costs of plant and equipment and volatile capital markets, we are actively pursuing strategies to accelerate rate recognition of investments and cash flow.  AEP representatives continue to engage our state commissioners and legislators on alternative ratemaking options to reduce regulatory lag and enhance certainty in the process.  These options include pre-approvals, a return on construction work in progress, rider/trackers, securitization, formula rates and the inclusion of future test-year projections into rates.








In many jurisdictions, the rates of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled electric service (i.e., generation, transmission and distribution service).  In the ERCOT area of Texas, our utilities have exited the generation business and they currently charge unbundled cost-based rates for transmission and distribution service only.  In Ohio, rates for electric service are unbundled for generation, transmission and distribution service.  Historically, the state regulatory frameworks in the service area of the AEP System reflected specified fuel costs as part of bundled (or, more recently, unbundled) rates or incorporated fuel adjustment clauses in a utility’s rates and tariffs.  Fuel adjustment clauses permit periodic adjustments to fuel cost recovery from customers and therefore provide protection against exposure to fuel cost changes.



The following state-by-state analysis summarizes the regulatory environment of certain major jurisdictions in which AEP operates.  Several public utility subsidiaries operate in more than one jurisdiction.  See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Rate Matters, included in the 2011 Annual Reports, for more information regarding pending rate matters.



Indiana



I&M provides retail electric service in Indiana at bundled rates approved by the IURC, with rates set on a cost-of-service basis.  Indiana provides for timely fuel and purchased power cost recovery through a fuel cost recovery mechanism.



Ohio



OPCo provides “default” retail electric service to customers at unbundled rates pursuant to the Ohio Act.  OPCo exclusively provides distribution and transmission services to retail customers within their service territories at cost-based rates approved by the PUCO.  Transmission services are provided at OATT rates based on rates established by the FERC.

OPCo’s generation/supply rates are subject to its ESP that the PUCO approved in March 2009.  In December 2011, the PUCO approved a modified stipulation for a new ESP for the period January 2012 through May 2016 that includes a standard service offer (SSO) pricing for generation.  In February 2012, the PUCO issued an entry on rehearing which rejected the modified stipulation for a new ESP and ordered a return to the 2011 ESP rates until a new rate plan is approved.

Oklahoma



PSO provides retail electric service in Oklahoma at bundled rates approved by the OCC.  PSO’s rates are set on a cost-of-service basis.  Fuel and purchased energy costs above or below the amount included in base rates are recovered or refunded by applying a fuel adjustment factor to retail kilowatt-hour sales.  The factor is generally adjusted annually and is based upon forecasted fuel and purchased energy costs.  Over or under collections of fuel costs for prior periods are returned to or recovered from customers in the year following when new annual factors are established.



Texas



Retail customers in TCC’s and TNC’s ERCOT service area of Texas are served through non-affiliated Retail Electric Providers (REPs).  TCC and TNC provide transmission and distribution service on a cost-of-service basis at rates approved by the PUCT and wholesale transmission service under tariffs approved by the FERC consistent with PUCT rules.  Effective September 2009, competition in the SPP area of Texas has been delayed until certain steps defined by statute and by PUCT rule have been accomplished.  As such, the PUCT continues to approve base and fuel rates for SWEPCo’s Texas operations on a cost of service basis.


Virginia



APCo currently provides retail electric service in Virginia at unbundled rates approved by the Virginia SCC.  Virginia generally allows for timely recovery of fuel costs through a fuel adjustment clause.  Transmission services are provided at OATT rates based on rates established by the FERC.  In addition to base rates and fuel cost recovery, APCo is permitted to recover a variety of costs through rate adjustment clauses.



West Virginia



APCo and WPCo provide retail electric service at bundled rates approved by the WVPSC, with rates set on a cost-of-service basis.  West Virginia generally allows for timely recovery of fuel costs through an expanded net energy cost which trues-up to actual expenses.








The following table illustrates certain regulatory information with respect to the states in which the public utility subsidiaries of AEP operate:



JurisdictionPercentage of AEP System Retail Revenues (a)Percentage of OSS Profits Shared with RatepayersAEP Utility Subsidiaries Operating in that JurisdictionAuthorized Return on Equity (b)Ohio32%No sharing included in the ESPOPCo(c)Texas12%Not Applicable in ERCOTTCC9.96%Not Applicable in ERCOTTNC9.96%90% in SPPSWEPCo10.33%Oklahoma11%75%PSO10.15%West Virginia11%100%APCo10.00%100%WPCo10.00%Virginia10%75%APCo10.90%Indiana9%50% after certain level (d)I&M10.50%Kentucky5%60% below and above certain level (e)KPCo10.50%Louisiana5%50% to 100% after certain levels (f)SWEPCo10.57%Arkansas2%50% to 100% after certain levels (g)SWEPCo10.25%Michigan2%80%I&M10.20%Tennessee1%Not ApplicableKGPCo12.00%





(a)Represents the percentage of revenues from sales to retail customers from AEP utility companies operating in each state to the total AEP System revenues from sales to retail customers for the year ended December 31, 2011.

(b)Identifies the predominant authorized return on equity and may not include other, less significant, permitted recovery.  Actual return on equity varies from authorized return on equity.

(c)OPCo’s generation revenues are governed by its Electric Security Plan (ESP) as approved by the PUCO in March 2009.  Under the ESP, authorized rate increases during the ESP period were subject to caps that limit the annual rate increases in 2009 through 2011.  Some rate components and increases are exempt from the cap limitations.  The ESP also provided for a fuel adjustment clause.

(d)There is an annual $37.5 million credit established for off-system sales in base rates.  If the off-system sales profits exceed the amount built into base rates, I&M reimburses ratepayers 50% of the excess.

(e)There is an annual $15.3 million credit established for off-system sales in base rates.  If the monthly off-system sales profits do not meet the monthly level built into base rates, ratepayers reimburse KPCo 60% of the shortfall.  If the monthly off-system sales profits exceed the monthly level built into base rates, KPCo reimburses ratepayers 60% of the excess.

(f)(g)Below $874,000, 100% is given to customers.From $874,001 to $1,314,000, 85% is given to customers.Above $1,314,000, 50% is given to customers.Below $758,600, 100% is given to customers.From $758,601 to $1,167,078, 85% is given to customers.Above $1,167,078, 50% is given to customers.




FERC





The FERC oversees RTOs, entities created to operate, plan and control utility transmission assets.  Order 2000 also prescribes certain characteristics and functions of acceptable RTO proposals.  The AEP East Companies are members of PJM.  SWEPCo and PSO are members of SPP.



The FERC has jurisdiction over the issuances of securities of most of our public utility subsidiaries, the acquisition of securities of utilities, the acquisition or sale of certain utility assets and mergers with another electric utility or holding company.  In addition, both the FERC and state regulators are permitted to review the books and records of any company within a holding company system.  EPACT gives the FERC limited “backstop” transmission siting authority as well as increased utility merger oversight.



Competition



Under current Ohio legislation, electric generation is sold in a competitive market in Ohio, and our native load customers in Ohio have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service.  Competitive power suppliers are targeting retail customers by offering alternative generation service.  A growing number of OPCo's commercial retail customers have switched to alternative generation providers while additional Ohio customers have provided notice of their intent to switch.  Currently, there are no limitations on the obligation of OPCo to provide below cost capacity rate pricing to alternative suppliers to support customers switching in Ohio.  These evolving market conditions will continue to impact OPCo's results of operations.  A retail supply subsidiary operates as a competitive retail electric service provider in Ohio.



The public utility subsidiaries of AEP, like the electric industry generally, face competition in the sale of available power on a wholesale basis, primarily to other public utilities and power marketers.  The Energy Policy Act of 1992 was designed, among other things, to foster competition in the wholesale market by creating a generation market with fewer barriers to entry and mandating that all generators have equal access to transmission services.  As a result, there are more generators able to participate in this market.  The principal factors in competing for wholesale sales are price (including fuel costs), availability of capacity and power and reliability of service.



AEP’s public utility subsidiaries also compete with self-generation and with distributors of other energy sources, such as natural gas, fuel oil and coal, within their service areas.  The primary factors in such competition are price, reliability of service and the capability of customers to utilize sources of energy other than electric power.  With respect to competing generators and self-generation, the public utility subsidiaries of AEP believe that they generally maintain a favorable competitive position.  With respect to alternative sources of energy, the public utility subsidiaries of AEP believe that the reliability of their service and the limited ability of customers to substitute other cost-effective sources for electric power place them in a favorable competitive position, even though their prices may be higher than the costs of some other sources of energy.






Significant changes in the global economy have led to increased price competition for industrial customers in the United States, including those served by the AEP System.  Some of these industrial customers have requested price reductions from their suppliers of electric power.  In addition, industrial customers that are downsizing or reorganizing often close a facility based upon its costs, which may include, among other things, the cost of electric power.  The public utility subsidiaries of AEP cooperate with such customers to meet their business needs through, for example, providing various off-peak or interruptible supply options pursuant to tariffs filed with, and approved by, the various state commissions.  Occasionally, these rates are negotiated with the customer, and then filed with the state commissions for approval.



Seasonality



The sale of electric power is generally a seasonal business.  In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change due to the nature and location of AEP’s facilities and the terms of power sale contracts into which AEP enters.  In addition, AEP has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish AEP’s results of operations and may impact its financial condition.  Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’s results of operations.



TRANSMISSION OPERATIONS



Wholly-owned Entities



AEP Transco, a subsidiary of AEP, has seven wholly-owned transmission companies, geographically aligned with our existing operating companies.  These transmission companies will develop and own new transmission assets that are physically connected to AEP’s system.  The transmission companies have been approved in Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Oklahoma.  Applications for approval of the transmission companies have been filed with the APSC, the KPSC, the LPSC, the Virginia SCC and the WVPSC and are pending approval.



AEP Transco rates have been approved and will be regulated by the FERC, and are included in PJM’s and SPP’s OATT.  AEPSC and other AEP subsidiaries provide services to the transmission companies through service agreements.  Therefore, the transmission companies do not have any employees.



All of the transmission companies’ capital needs are provided by Parent, AEP Transco and/or the AEP Utility Money Pool.  The Utility Money Pool is used to meet the short-term borrowing needs of AEP regulated utility subsidiaries.  The Utility Money Pool operates in accordance with the terms and conditions approved in regulatory orders.  For the consolidated entities within our Transmission Operations segment, we forecast approximately $350 million, excluding AFUDC, of construction expenditures for 2012.



Joint Venture Initiatives



We have established joint ventures with other incumbent electric utility companies for the purpose of developing, building and owning Extra High Voltage (EHV) transmission lines to improve reliability and market efficiency and to access remote generation sources in North America.  Our joint ventures are invested in EHV projects at various stages of regulatory and RTO approval.



Our most significant joint venture, Electric Transmission Texas, LLC (ETT), was established to construct, fund, own and operate electric transmission assets within ERCOT, including transmission projects in the Competitive Renewable Energy Zone (CREZ). The PUCT has awarded approximately $1.5 billion of total CREZ investment to ETT.



Business services for the joint ventures are provided by AEPSC and the joint venture partner entity.  Therefore, the joint ventures do not have any employees. For the equity investments within our Transmission Operations segment, we forecast approximately $116 million of AEP equity contributions in 2012 to support construction expenditures and the payment of operating expenses.






AEP RIVER OPERATIONS



Our AEP River Operations Segment transports coal and dry bulk commodities primarily on the Ohio, Illinois and lower Mississippi rivers.  Almost all of our customers are nonaffiliated third parties who obtain the transport of coal and dry bulk commodities for various uses.  We charge these customers market rates for the purpose of making a profit.  Depending on market conditions and other factors, including barge availability, we permit AEP utility subsidiary affiliates to use certain of our equipment at rates that reflect our cost.  Our affiliated utility customers procure the transport of coal for use as fuel in their respective generating plants.  AEP River Operations includes approximately 2,600 barges, 45 towboats and 25 harbor boats that we own or lease.  These assets are separate from the barges and towboats dedicated exclusively to transporting coal for use as fuel in our own generating facilities discussed under the prior segment.  See Item 1 – Utility Operations – Electric Generation – Fuel Supply – Coal and Lignite.



Competition within the barging industry for major commodity contracts is intense, with a number of companies offering transportation services in the waterways we serve.  We compete with other carriers primarily on the basis of commodity shipping rates, but also with respect tocustomer service, available routes, value-added services (including scheduling convenience and flexibility).  The industry continues to experience consolidation.  The resulting companies increasingly offer the widespread geographic reach necessary to support major national customers.  Demand for barging services can be seasonal, particularly with respect to the movement of harvested agricultural commodities (beginning in the late summer and extending through the fall).  Cold winter weather, water levels and inefficient older river locks operated by others may also limit our operations when certain of the waterways we serve are closed.



Our transportation operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard, federal laws, state laws and certain international conventions.  Legislation has been proposed that could make our towboats subject to inspection by the U.S. Coast Guard.



GENERATION AND MARKETING



Our Generation and Marketing Segment consists of nonutility generating assets and a competitive power supply and energy trading and marketing business.  We enter into short and long-term transactions to buy or sell capacity, energy and ancillary services primarily in the ERCOT market, and to a lesser extent Ohio in PJM and MISO.  As of December 31, 2011, the assets utilized in this segment included approximately 310 MW of company-owned domestic wind power facilities, 177 MW of domestic wind power from long-term purchase power agreements and 377 MW of coal-fired capacity which was obtained through an agreement effective through 2027 that transfers TNC’s interestin the Oklaunion power station to AEP Energy Partners, Inc.  The power obtained from the Oklaunion power station is marketed and sold in ERCOT.  We are regulated by the PUCT for transactions inside ERCOT and by the FERC for transactions outside of ERCOT.  While peak load in ERCOT typically occurs in the summer, we do not necessarily expect seasonal variation in our operations.  In 2010, we started operations of a retail energy business in the State of Ohio to sell competitive power supply to residential, commercial and industrial customers in the deregulated areas within or near AEP's traditional utility service areas.








EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF AEPas of February 28, 2012



The following persons are executive officers of AEP.  Their ages are given as of February 1, 2012.  The officers are appointed annually for a one-year term by the board of directors of AEP.



Nicholas K. Akins

President and Chief Executive Officer

Age 51

Chief Executive Officer since November 2011 and President since January 2011. Was Executive Vice President from August 2006 to December 2010.



Lisa M. Barton

Executive Vice President – Transmission

Age 46

Executive Vice President-Transmission of AEPSC since August 2011. Was Senior Vice President-Transmission Strategy and Business Development of AEPSC from November 2010 to July 2011, Vice President-Transmission Strategy and Business Development of AEPSC from October 2007 to November 2010, Managing Director, Transmission of AEPSC from September 2007 to October 2007 and Director of Transmission Planning of AEPSC from December 2006 to September 2007.



David M. Feinberg

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Age 42

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since January 2012.  Senior Vice President and General Counsel of AEPSC from May 2011. Previously served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Allegheny Energy, Inc. from 2006 to 2011.



Mark C. McCullough

Executive Vice President – Generation

Age 52

Executive Vice President-Generation of AEPSC since January 2011.  Was Senior Vice President-Fossil & Hydro Generation of AEPSC from February 2008 to December 2010 and Vice President-Baseload Generation of AEPSC from June 2005 to February 2008.



Robert P. Powers

Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer

Age 57

Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2011.  Was President-Utility Group from April 2009 to November 2011, President-AEP Utilities from January 2008 to April 2009 and Executive Vice President from 2004 to 2008.



Brian X. Tierney

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Age 44

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2009.  Was Executive Vice President-AEP Utilities East of AEPSC from January 2008 to October 2009 and Senior Vice President-Commercial Operations of AEPSC from 2005 to January 2008.



Dennis E. Welch

Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer

Age 60

Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since October 2011.  Was Executive Vice President from January 2008 to September 2011 and Senior Vice President from August 2005 to December 2007.






