ITEM 1.   BUSINESS



GENERAL



Overview and Description of Subsidiaries



AEP was incorporated under the laws of the State of New York in 1906 and reorganized in 1925.  It is a public utility holding company that owns, directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding common stock of its public utility subsidiaries and varying percentages of other subsidiaries.



The service areas of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries cover portions of the states of Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia.  The generating and transmission facilities of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries are interconnected and their operations are coordinated.  Transmission networks are interconnected with extensive distribution facilities in the territories served.  The public utility subsidiaries of AEP have traditionally provided electric service, consisting of generation, transmission and distribution, on an integrated basis to their retail customers.  Restructuring legislation in Michigan, Ohio and the ERCOT area of Texas has caused AEP public utility subsidiaries in those states to unbundle previously integrated regulated rates for their retail customers.



The AEP System is an integrated electric utility system.  As a result, the member companies of the AEP System have contractual, financial and other business relationships with the other member companies, such as participation in the AEP System savings and retirement plans and tax returns, sales of electricity and transportation and handling of fuel.  The companies of the AEP System also obtain certain accounting, administrative, information systems, engineering, financial, legal, maintenance and other services at cost from a common provider, AEPSC.



As of December 31, 2012, the subsidiaries of AEP had a total of 18,513 employees.  Because it is a holding company rather than an operating company, AEP has no employees.  The public utility subsidiaries of AEP are:



APCo



Organized in Virginia in 1926, APCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 960,000 retail customers in the southwestern portion of Virginia and southern West Virginia, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities and other market participants.  As of December 31, 2012, APCo had 2,128 employees.  Among the principal industries served by APCo are paper, rubber, coal mining, textile mill products and stone, clay and glass products.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, APCo is interconnected with the following nonaffiliated utility companies: Carolina Power & Light Company, Duke Carolina and Virginia Electric and Power Company.  APCo has several points of interconnection with Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) and has entered into agreements with TVA under which APCo and TVA interchange and transfer electric power over portions of their respective systems.  APCo is a member of PJM.



I&M



Organized in Indiana in 1907, I&M is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 584,000 retail customers in northern and eastern Indiana and southwestern Michigan, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and other market participants.  As of December 31, 2012, I&M had 2,649 employees.  Among the principal industries served are primary metals, transportation equipment, electrical and electronic machinery, fabricated metal products, rubber and chemicals and allied products, rubber products and transportation equipment.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, I&M is interconnected with the following nonaffiliated utility companies: Central Illinois Public Service Company, Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., Commonwealth Edison Company, Consumers Energy Company, Illinois Power Company, Indianapolis Power & Light Company, Louisville Gas and Electric Company, Northern Indiana Public Service Company, Duke Indiana and Richmond Power & Light Company.  I&M is a member of PJM.






KPCo



Organized in Kentucky in 1919, KPCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 173,000 retail customers in an area in eastern Kentucky, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities and other market participants.  As of December 31, 2012, KPCo had 392 employees.  Among the principal industries served are petroleum refining, coal mining and chemical production.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, KPCo is interconnected with the following nonaffiliated utility companies: Kentucky Utilities Company and East Kentucky Power Cooperative Inc.  KPCo is also interconnected with TVA.  KPCo is a member of PJM.



KGPCo



Organized in Virginia in 1917, KGPCo provides electric service to approximately 47,000 retail customers in Kingsport and eight neighboring communities in northeastern Tennessee.  KGPCo does not own any generating facilities and is a member of PJM.  It purchases electric power from APCo for distribution to its customers.  As of December 31, 2012, KGPCo had 54 employees.



OPCo





PSO



Organized in Oklahoma in 1913, PSO is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 535,000 retail customers in eastern and southwestern Oklahoma, and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities, rural electric cooperatives and other market participants.  As of December 31, 2012, PSO had 1,127 employees.  Among the principal industries served by PSO are paper manufacturing and timber products, natural gas and oil extraction, transportation, non-metallic mineral production, oil refining and steel processing.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, PSO is interconnected with Empire District Electric Company, Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, Southwestern Public Service Company and Westar Energy, Inc.  PSO is a member of SPP.



SWEPCo



Organized in Delaware in 1912, SWEPCo is engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 524,000 retail customers in northeastern and panhandle of Texas, northwestern Louisiana and western Arkansas and in supplying and marketing electric power at wholesale to other electric utility companies, municipalities, rural electric cooperatives and other market participants.  As of December 31, 2012, SWEPCo had 1,472 employees.  Among the principal industries served by SWEPCo are natural gas and oil production, petroleum refining, manufacturing of pulp and paper, chemicals, food processing and metal refining.  The territory served by SWEPCo also includes several military installations, colleges and universities.  SWEPCo also owns and operates a lignite coal mining operation.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, SWEPCo is interconnected with Central Louisiana Electric Company, Empire District Electric Company, Entergy Corp. and Oklahoma Gas & Electric Company.  SWEPCo is a member of SPP.






TCC



Organized in Texas in 1945, TCC is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 799,000 retail customers through REPs in southern Texas.  TCC sold all of its generation assets.  As of December 31, 2012, TCC had 996 employees.  Among the principal industries served by TCC are chemical and petroleum refining, chemicals and allied products, oil and gas extraction, food processing, metal refining, plastics and machinery equipment.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, TCC is a member of ERCOT.



TNC



Organized in Texas in 1927, TNC is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electric power to approximately 187,000 retail customers through REPs in west and central Texas.  TNC’s generating capacity has been transferred to an affiliate at TNC’s cost pursuant to an agreement effective through 2027.  As of December 31, 2012, TNC had 319 employees.  Among the principal industries served by TNC are petroleum refining, agriculture and the manufacturing or processing of cotton seed products, oil products, precision and consumer metal products, meat products and gypsum products.  The territory served by TNC also includes several military installations and correctional facilities.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections, TNC is a member of ERCOT.



WPCo



Organized in West Virginia in 1883 and reincorporated in 1911, WPCo provides electric service to approximately 41,000 retail customers in northern West Virginia.  WPCo does not own any generating facilities.  WPCo is a member of PJM.  It purchases electric power from OPCo for distribution to its customers.  As of December 31, 2012, WPCo had 51 employees.  In December 2011, APCo and WPCo filed an application with the WVPSC requesting approval to merge WPCo into APCo.  In December 2012, APCo and WPCo filed merger applications with the Virginia SCC and the FERC.  A hearing at the Virginia SCC is scheduled for April 2013.



AEGCo



Organized in Ohio in 1982, AEGCo is an electric generating company.  AEGCo sells power at wholesale to OPCo, I&M and KPCo.  AEGCo has no employees.



Service Company Subsidiary



AEP also owns a service company subsidiary, AEPSC.  AEPSC provides accounting, administrative, information systems, engineering, financial, legal, maintenance and other services at cost to the AEP affiliated companies.  The executive officers of AEP and certain of its public utility subsidiaries are employees of AEPSC.  As of December 31, 2012, AEPSC had 4,787 employees.



AEPTCo



This wholly-owned intermediate holding company holds our seven transmission companies.  The transmission companies are geographically aligned with our existing operating companies and develop and own new transmission assets that are physically connected to AEP’s system.  Individual transmission companies have obtained the approvals necessary to operate in Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma and West Virginia, subject to any applicable siting requirements, and are authorized to submit projects for commission approval in Virginia.  Applications for transmission companies are pending with the applicable commissions in Arkansas, Kentucky and Louisiana.  Neither AEPTCo nor the transmission companies have any employees.  Instead, AEPSC and certain of our utility subsidiaries provide the services required by these entities.






CLASSES OF SERVICE



The principal classes of service from which the public utility subsidiaries of AEP derive revenues and the amount of such revenues during the year ended December 31, 2012 are as follows:



DescriptionAEP System (a)APCoI&MOPCoPSOSWEPCo(in thousands)Utility OperationsRetail SalesResidential Sales$5,114,000$1,159,576$505,142$1,636,808$512,372$512,578Commercial Sales3,216,000576,153377,302945,233331,125404,204Industrial Sales2,772,000701,603430,042742,235209,446298,604PJM Net Charges(43,000)(13,049)(9,003)(18,831)--Provision for Rate Refund(5,000)--(2,577)-(1,207)Other Retail Sales205,00072,4556,50818,11370,8948,074Total Retail11,259,0002,496,7381,309,9913,320,9811,123,8371,222,253WholesaleOff-System Sales1,909,000409,527481,000661,51337,484247,118Transmission301,00014,0592,09210,11430,66948,404Total Wholesale2,210,000423,586483,092671,62768,153295,522Other Electric Revenues158,00028,43816,98629,50814,59320,758Other Operating Revenues50,0009,9704,58219,3853,7521,860Sales to Affiliates-318,199385,460886,69522,60337,441Total Utility Operating Revenues13,677,0003,276,9312,200,1114,928,1961,232,9381,577,834Other1,268,000-----Total Revenues$14,945,000$3,276,931$2,200,111$4,928,196$1,232,938$1,577,834



(a)Includes revenues of other subsidiaries not shown.  Intercompany transactions have been eliminated for the year ended December 31, 2012.



FINANCING



General



Companies within the AEP System generally use short-term debt to finance working capital needs.  Short-term debt may also be used to finance acquisitions, construction and redemption or repurchase of outstanding securities until such needs can be financed with long-term debt.  In recent history, short-term funding needs have been provided for by cash on hand, borrowing under AEP's revolving credit agreements and AEP’s commercial paper program.  Funds are made available to subsidiaries under the AEP corporate borrowing program.  Certain public utility subsidiaries of AEP also sell accounts receivable to provide liquidity.  See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in the 2012 Annual Reports, under the heading entitled Financial Condition for additional information concerning short-term funding and our access to bank lines of credit, commercial paper and capital markets.



AEP’s revolving credit agreements (which backstop the commercial paper program) include covenants and events of default typical for this type of facility, including a maximum debt/capital test and, for AEP and its significant subsidiaries, a $50 million cross-acceleration provision.  As of December 31, 2012, AEP was in compliance with its debt covenants.  With the exception of a voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency, any event of default has either or both a cure period or notice requirement before termination of the agreements.  A voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency of AEP or one of its significant subsidiaries would be considered an immediate termination event.  See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in the 2012 Annual Reports, under the heading entitled Financial Condition for additional information with respect to AEP’s credit agreements.



AEP’s subsidiaries have also utilized, and expect to continue to utilize, additional financing arrangements, such as securitization financings and leasing arrangements, including the leasing of coal transportation equipment and facilities.






ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MATTERS



General



AEP’s subsidiaries are currently subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities with regard to air and water-quality control and other environmental matters, and are subject to zoning and other regulation by local authorities.  The environmental issues that we believe are potentially material to the AEP system are outlined below.



Clean Air Act Requirements



The CAA establishes a comprehensive program to protect and improve the nation’s air quality and control mobile and stationary sources of air emissions.  The major CAA programs affecting our power plants are described below.  The states implement and administer many of these programs and could impose additional or more stringent requirements.



The Acid Rain Program



The 1990 Amendments to the CAA include a cap-and-trade emission reduction program for SO2emissions from power plants.  By 2000, the program established a nationwide cap on power plant SO2emissions of 8.9 million tons per year, and required further reductions in 2010.  The 1990 Amendments also contain requirements for power plants to reduce NOxemissions through the use of available combustion controls.



The success of the SO2cap-and-trade program encouraged the Federal EPA and the states to use it as a model for other emission reduction programs.  We continue to meet our obligations under the Acid Rain Program through the installation of controls, use of alternate fuels and participation in the emissions allowance markets.  Subsequent programs developed by the Federal EPA have imposed more stringent SO2and NOxemission reduction requirements than the Acid Rain Program on many of our facilities.  We have installed additional controls and taken other actions to achieve compliance with these programs.



National Ambient Air Quality Standards



The CAA requires the Federal EPA to review the available scientific data for criteria pollutants periodically and establish a concentration level in the ambient air for those substances that is adequate to protect the public health and welfare with an extra safety margin.  The Federal EPA also can list additional pollutants and develop concentration levels for them.  These concentration levels are known as national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS).



Each state identifies the areas within its boundaries that meet the NAAQS (attainment areas) and those that do not (nonattainment areas).  Each state must develop a state implementation plan (SIP) to bring nonattainment areas into compliance with the NAAQS and maintain good air quality in attainment areas.  All SIPs are submitted to the Federal EPA for approval.  If a state fails to develop adequate plans, the Federal EPA develops and implements a plan.  As the Federal EPA reviews the NAAQS and establishes new concentration levels, the attainment status of areas can change and states may be required to develop new SIPs.  In 2008, the Federal EPA issued revised NAAQS for both ozone and fine particulate matter (PM2.5).  The PM2.5standard was remanded by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, and a new rule was signed by the administrator in December 2012 that lowers the annual standard.  A new ozone standard is also under development and is expected to be proposed in 2013.  The Federal EPA also adopted a new short-term standard for SO2in 2010,a lower standard for NOxin 2010, and a lower standard for lead in 2008.  The existing standard for carbon monoxide was retained in 2011.  The states will develop new SIPs for these standards, which could result in additional emission reductions being required from our facilities.



In 2005, the Federal EPA issued the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which requires additional reductions in SO2and NOxemissions from power plants and assists states developing new SIPs to meet the NAAQS.  For additional information regarding CAIR, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the headings entitled Environmental Issues – Clean Air Act Requirements.  In August 2011, the Federal EPA issued a final rule to replace CAIR (the Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR)) that would impose new and more stringent requirements to control SO2and NOxemissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units in 27 states and the District of Columbia.  Petitions for review were filed with the U.S. Court of Appeals for


the District of Columbia Circuit, and CSAPR was vacated.  CAIR remains in effect until the Federal EPA develops a replacement rule.  For additional information regarding CSAPR, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the headings entitled Environmental Issues – Clean Air Act Requirements.



Hazardous Air Pollutants



As a result of the 1990 Amendments to the CAA, the Federal EPA investigated hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions from the electric utility sector and submitted a report to Congress, identifying mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants as warranting further study.  In 2011, the Federal EPA issued a final rule setting Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards for new and existing coal and oil-fired utility units and New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for emissions from new and modified power plants.  For additional information regarding the Utility MACT, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the headings entitled Environmental Issues – Clean Air Act Requirements.



Regional Haze



The CAA establishes visibility goals for certain federally designated areas, including national parks, and requires states to submit SIPs that will demonstrate reasonable progress toward preventing impairment of visibility in these areas (Regional Haze program).  In 2005, the Federal EPA issued its Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR), detailing how the CAA’s best available retrofit technology requirements will be applied to facilities built between 1962 and 1977 that emit more than 250 tons per year of certain pollutants in specific industrial categories, including power plants.



PSO is in the process of implementing a settlement with the Federal EPA in order to comply with the Regional Haze program requirements in that state.  For additional information regarding CAVR and the Regional Haze program requirements, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the headings entitled Environmental Issues – Clean Air Act Requirements.



CO2Regulation



In the absence of comprehensive climate change legislation, the Federal EPA has taken action to regulate CO2emissions under the existing requirements of the CAA.  Such actions are being legally challenged by numerous parties.  For additional information regarding the Federal EPA action taken to regulate CO2emissions, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the headings entitled Environmental Issues – Clean Air Act Requirements.



Our fossil fuel-fired generating units are large sources of CO2emissions.  If substantial CO2emission reductions are required, there will be significant increases in capital expenditures and operating costs which would hasten the ultimate retirement of older, less-efficient, coal-fired units.  To the extent we install additional controls on our generating plants to limit CO2emissions and receive regulatory approvals to increase our rates, return on capital investment would have a positive effect on future earnings.  Prudently incurred capital investments made by our subsidiaries in rate-regulated jurisdictions to comply with legal requirements and benefit customers are generally included in rate base for recovery and earn a return on investment.  We would expect these principles to apply to investments made to address new environmental requirements.  However, requests for rate increases reflecting these costs can affect us adversely because our regulators could limit the amount or timing of increased costs that we would recover through higher rates.  To the extent our costs are relatively higher than our competitors’ costs, it could reduce our off-system sales or cause us to lose customers in jurisdictions that permit customers to choose their supplier of generation service.



Several states have adopted programs that directly regulate CO2emissions from power plants, but none of these programs are currently in effect in states where we have generating facilities.  Some of our states have established mandatory or voluntary programs to increase the use of energy efficiency, alternative energy, or renewable energy sources (Arkansas, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia).  We are taking steps to comply with these requirements primarily through entering into power supply agreements giving us access to power generated by wind turbines.






Clean Water Act Requirements



Our operations are also subject to the Federal Clean Water Act, which prohibits the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States except pursuant to appropriate permits, and regulates systems that withdraw surface water for use in our power plants.  In April 2011, the Federal EPA issued a proposed rule setting forth standards for existing power plants that will reduce mortality of aquatic organisms pinned against a plant’s cooling water intake screen (impingement) or entrained in the cooling water.  The proposed standards affect all plants withdrawing more than two million gallons of cooling water per day and establish specific intake design and intake velocity standards meant to allow fish to avoid or escape impingement.  Compliance with this standard is required within eight years of the effective date of the final rule.  The proposed standard for entrainment for existing facilities requires a site-specific evaluation of the available measures for reducing entrainment.  We submitted comments on the proposal in July and August 2011.  We expect the Federal EPA to issue revised rules in 2013.



The Federal EPA is also engaged in rulemaking to update the technology-based standards that govern discharges from new and existing power plants under the Clean Water Act’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program.  These standards were last updated over 20 years ago, and the Federal EPA has issued two rounds of information collection requests to inform its rulemaking.  In October 2009, the Federal EPA issued a final report for the power plant sector and determined that revisions to its existing standards are necessary.  We expect the Federal EPA to propose revised standards in 2013.  Until new standards are proposed, we cannot predict the outcome or impact of these rules on our operations.



Coal Ash Regulation





Climate Change – Position and Strategy














In March 2012 the Federal EPA proposed a Carbon Pollution Standard for New Power Plants. This regulation, based on EPA authority under section 111(b) of the Clean Air Act, would establish New Source Performance Standards for CO2for new fossil-fueled-fired electric generating units.  The proposed regulation could limit the ability to construct new coal-fired facilities in the future due to strict emission limits if finalized. AEP does not currently have plans to permit or construct any new coal-fired facilities and the proposed rule does not directly impact existing facilities.



For additional information on legislative and regulatory responses to greenhouse gases, including limitations on CO2emissions, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the headings entitled Environmental Issues – Climate Change.  Specific steps taken to reduce CO2emissions include the following:



Renewable Sources of Energy



Some of our states have established mandatory or voluntary programs to increase the use of energy efficiency, alternative energy, or renewable energy sources (Arkansas, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia).  At the end of 2012 and in support of our goals or requirements, the company had long-term contracts for 1,984 MW of wind and 10 MW of solar power for a combined total of 1,994 MW to serve its regulated operating company customers.  We actively manage our compliance position and are on pace to meet the relevant requirements or benchmarks in each applicable jurisdiction.



End User Energy Efficiency



In 2008, AEP established a goal to reduce demand by 1,000 megawatts (MW) and energy consumption by 2,250,000 megawatt-hours (MWh) by the end of 2012.  Since that time, AEP Operating Companies have implemented a wide variety of new consumer programs across most of the states we serve.  Over 100 energy efficiency and demand response programs and tariffs are now in place.



Preliminary estimates indicate that we have achieved our goal.  From 2008 through 2012, AEP achieved 3,016,400 MWh of energy reduction and 1,011 MW of demand reduction, or 134% and 101% of goal, respectively.  For the same period, AEP Operating Companies have invested over $368 million in energy efficiency and demand response initiatives.  Final results are subject to independent third party evaluation and verification of savings, as required in some jurisdictions.



Energy efficiency and demand reduction programs have received regulatory support in most of the states we serve, and appropriate cost recovery will be essential for us to continue and expand these consumer offerings. Appropriate recovery of program costs, lost revenues, and an opportunity to earn a reasonable return ensures that energy efficiency programs are considered equally with supply side investments.  Going forward, we will work closely with regulators to ensure that plans are in place to meet specific regulatory and legislative energy efficiency and/or demand reduction targets present in the respective jurisdictions.




gridSMART®



AEP’sgridSMART®initiative is designed to demonstrate the potential benefits of the smart grid by integrating advanced grid technologies into existing electric networks.  AEP is deploying smart grid technologies in several jurisdictions with regulatory support.



·AEP Ohio is deploying a comprehensive suite of smart grid technologies in an innovative demonstration project with 110,000 customers.  The $150 million project is being funded through a $75 million federal grant, PUCO cost recovery support and vendor in-kind contributions.

·AEP Texas is deploying a one million meter smart grid network, along with $1 million in energy use display devices for low income customers.  The $308 million project is targeted for completion by the end of 2013.  We are recovering the costs through an 11-year surcharge.

·I&M has deployed a smart grid network to 10,000 customers.  The $7 million project was funded pursuant to a settlement agreement approved by the IURC.

·PSO has deployed smart meters to approximately 31,000 customers, 14,000 of which will be served on circuits equipped with advanced grid management technologies.  The project is being financed through a $8.75 million American Reinvestment and Recovery Act low-interest loan from the Oklahoma Department of Commerce with $2 million annual revenues for cost recovery approved by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission.



Current and Projected CO2Emission



Our total CO2emissions in 2011 (not including our ownership in the Kyger Creek and Clifty Creek plants) were approximately 136 million metric tons.  Our 2012 emissions decreased to approximately 122 million metric tons.  We expect overall increases in CO2emissions during the next few years to be small, if any, as our sales and generation rebound somewhat from recession lows in 2009.  However, over much of the remainder of the decade we expect emissions to decline as modest sales growth is offset by retirements of older, less efficient coal-fired units and increased utilization of natural gas.



Corporate Governance



In response to environmental issues and in connection with its assessment of our strategic plan, our Board of Directors continually reviews the risks posed by our actions.  The Board of Directors is informed of any new material environmental issues, including changes to regulations and proposed legislation.  The Board’s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance oversees the company’s annual Corporate Accountability Report, which includes information on environmental issues.



Other Environmental Issues and Matters



We are engaged in litigation regarding regulated air emissions and/or whether emissions from coal-fired generating plants cause or contribute to global warming.  See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading entitled Litigation – Environmental Issues and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies, included in the 2012 Annual Reports, for further information.



The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 imposes costs for environmental remediation upon owners and previous owners of sites, as well as transporters and generators of hazardous material disposed of at such sites.  See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements entitled Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies, included in the 2012 Annual Reports, under the heading entitled The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund) and State Remediation for further information.




Environmental Investments






Historical and Projected Environmental Investments201020112012201320142015ActualActualActualEstimateEstimateEstimate(in thousands)Total AEP System (a)$303,800$186,800$235,400$544,000$760,000$850,000APCo202,70068,90050,80059,00048,00084,000I&M8,1005,90030,40042,00084,00088,000OPCo97,40063,00066,200191,000185,000159,000PSO1,2006,50026,10064,00082,00098,000SWEPCo (b)(10,500)11,00023,800143,000241,000325,000(a)Includes expenditures of the subsidiaries shown and other subsidiaries not shown. The figures reflect construction expenditures, not investments in subsidiary companies.(b)SWEPCo 2010 actual environmental cost includes reclassifications of project costs for suspended capital projects.



The preceding discussion of environmental investments and plans for future years reflects the ownership of plants as of December 31, 2012.  The AEP East Companies have filed with the FERC to terminate the Interconnection Agreement and for OPCo to transfer facilities to APCo, KPCo and AEPGenCo.  Management expects the transfers will be effective December 31, 2013.



Electric and Magnetic Fields (EMF)



EMF are found everywhere there is electricity.  Electric fields are created by the presence of electric charges.  Magnetic fields are produced by the flow of those charges.  This means that EMF are created by electricity flowing in transmission and distribution lines, electrical equipment, household wiring and appliances.  A number of studies in the past have examined the possibility of adverse health effects from EMF.  While some of the epidemiological studies have indicated some association between exposure to EMF and health effects, none has produced any conclusive evidence that EMF does or does not cause adverse health effects.



Management cannot predict the ultimate impact of the question of EMF exposure and adverse health effects.  If further research shows that EMF exposure contributes to increased risk of cancer or other health problems, or if the courts conclude that EMF exposure harms individuals and that utilities are liable for damages, or if states limit the strength of magnetic fields to such a level that the current electricity delivery system must be significantly changed, then the results of operations and financial condition of AEP and its operating subsidiaries could be materially affected unless these costs can be recovered from customers.




UTILITY OPERATIONS



GENERAL



Utility operations constitute most of AEP’s business operations.  Utility operations include (a) the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to retail customers and (b) the supplying and marketing of electric power at wholesale (through the electric generation function) to other electric utility companies, municipalities and other market participants.  AEPSC, as agent for AEP’s public utility subsidiaries, performs marketing, generation dispatch, fuel procurement and power-related risk management and trading activities.



ELECTRIC GENERATION



Facilities



As of December 31, 2012, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries owned or leased approximately 37,300 MW of domestic generation.  See Item 2 – Properties for more information regarding AEP’s generation capacity.



Interconnection Agreement





PeakDemandMember-Load Ratio(MWs)(%)APCo6,88130I&M4,72621KPCo1,3786OPCo9,67043



APCo, I&M, KPCo and OPCo are parties to the AEP System Interim Allowance Agreement (Allowance Agreement), which has been approved by the FERC and provides, among other things, for the transfer of SO2emission allowances associated with transactions under the Interconnection Agreement.  The following table shows the net (credits) or charges allocated among the parties under the Interconnection Agreement during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:



Years Ended December 31,201220112010(in thousands)APCo$494,400$632,100$757,900I&M(118,400)(183,700)(236,900)KPCo93,20048,40049,400OPCo(469,200)(496,800)(570,400)






Termination of the Interconnection Agreement



In October 2012, AEP submitted several applications with the FERC requesting termination of the Interconnection Agreement, termination of the Allowance Agreement, approval of a new Power Coordination Agreement among APCo, I&M and KPCo and the transfer of OPCo’s generating assets to either a new wholly owned unregulated generation company or to APCo and KPCo to fully separate OPCo’s generating assets from its distribution and transmission operations. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Rate Matters, included in the 2012 Annual Reports, for additional information regarding the termination of the Interconnection Agreement and transfer of OPCo’s generation assets.



CSW Operating Agreement



PSO, SWEPCo and AEPSC are parties to the CSW Operating Agreement, which has been approved by the FERC.  The CSW Operating Agreement requires these public utility subsidiaries to maintain adequate annual planning reserve margins and requires the subsidiaries that have capacity in excess of the required margins to make such capacity available for sale to other public utility subsidiary parties as capacity commitments.  Parties are compensated for energy delivered to the recipients based upon the deliverer’s incremental cost plus a portion of the recipient’s savings realized by the purchaser that avoids more costly alternatives.  Revenues and costs arising from third party sales in their region are generally shared based on the amount of energy each west zone public utility subsidiary contributes that is sold to third parties.



The following table shows the net (credits) or charges allocated among the parties under the CSW Operating Agreement during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:



Years Ended December 31,201220112010(in thousands)PSO$42,555$33,091$20,222SWEPCo(42,555)(33,091)(20,222)



Power generated by or allocated or provided under the Interconnection Agreement or CSW Operating Agreement to any public utility subsidiary is primarily sold to customers by such public utility subsidiary at rates approved by the public utility commission in the jurisdiction of sale (except in Ohio, where generation rates are currently priced using a hybrid approach that incorporates components of cost and market).  See Regulation – Rates under Item 1, Utility Operations.



Under both the Interconnection Agreement and CSW Operating Agreement, power that is not needed to serve the native load of our public utility subsidiaries is sold in the wholesale market by AEPSC on behalf of those subsidiaries.  See Risk Management and Trading, below, for a discussion of the trading and marketing of such power.



AEP’s System Integration Agreement provides for the integration and coordination of AEP’s East Companies, PSO and SWEPCo.  This includes joint dispatch of generation within the AEP System and the distribution, between the two zones, of costs and benefits associated with the transfers of power between the two zones (including sales to third parties and risk management and trading activities).  It is designed to function as an umbrella agreement in addition to the Interconnection Agreement and the CSW Operating Agreement, each of which controls the distribution of costs and benefits for activities within each zone.



Risk Management and Trading



As agent for AEP’s public utility subsidiaries, AEPSC sells excess power into the market and engages in power, natural gas, coal and emissions allowances risk management and trading activities focused in regions in which AEP traditionally operates and in adjacent regions.  These activities primarily involve the purchase and sale of electricity (and to a lesser extent, natural gas, coal and emissions allowances) under forward contracts at fixed and variable prices.  These contracts include physical transactions, exchange-traded futures, and to a lesser extent, over-the-counter swaps and options.  The majority of forward contracts are typically settled by entering into offsetting


contracts.  These transactions are executed with numerous counterparties or on exchanges.  Counterparties and exchanges may require cash or cash related instruments to be deposited on these transactions as margin against open positions.  As of December 31, 2012, counterparties posted approximately $8 million in cash, cash equivalents or letters of credit with AEPSC for the benefit of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries (while, as of that date, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries posted approximately$89 million with counterparties and exchanges).  Since open trading contracts are valued based on market prices of various commodities, exposures change daily.  See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in the 2012 Annual Reports, under the heading entitled Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional information.



Fuel Supply



The following table shows the sources of fuel used by the AEP System:



201220112010Coal and Lignite71%78%82%Natural Gas17%11%8%Nuclear11%10%9%Hydroelectric and other<1%<1%<1%



A price increase/decrease in one or more fuel sources relative to other fuels may result in the decreased/increased use of other fuels.  AEP’s overall 2012 fossil fuel costs are down approximately 2% on a dollar per MMBtu basis from 2011 due primarily to the favorable impact of low natural gas prices.



Coal and Lignite



AEP’s public utility subsidiaries procure coal and lignite under a combination of purchasing arrangements including long-term contracts, affiliate operations and spot agreements with various producers and coal trading firms.   Coal consumption in 2012 was down significantly from the same period in 2011 for the reasons discussed below. The AEP System average target level for coal inventory ranges from 35 to 40 days and as of December 31, 2012, the AEP System average for coal inventories was 44 days.



Management believes that AEP’s public utility subsidiaries will be able to secure and transport coal and lignite of adequate quality and in adequate quantities to operate their coal and lignite-fired units.  Through subsidiaries, AEP owns, leases or controls more than 7,600 railcars, approximately 600 barges, 15 towboats, and a coal handling terminal with approximately 18 million tons of annual capacity to move and store coal for use in our generating facilities.  See AEP River Operations for a discussion of AEP’s for-profit coal and other dry-bulk commodity transportation operations that are not part of AEP’s Utility Operations segment.



Spot market prices for certain coals utilized by AEP decreased significantly in the first half of 2012, but made a modest recovery by the end of the year.  The general decrease in spot coal prices during the year can be attributed to the persistently weak demand for domestic coal driven, in large part, by low natural gas prices and the displacement of coal generation with natural gas resources.  Most of the coal purchased by AEP is procured through term contracts.  As those contracts expire, they can be replaced at the new market price with an impact in subsequent periods.  The average cost per ton for coal delivered in 2012 increased from the prior year.



The following table shows the amount of coal and lignite delivered to the AEP System plants during the past three years and the average delivered price of coal purchased by AEP System companies:



201220112010Total coal delivered to AEP System plants (thousands of tons)60,05462,95664,614Average cost per ton of coal delivered$49.22$46.76$44.82



The coal supplies at AEP System plants vary from time to time depending on various factors, including, but not limited to, demand for electric power, unit outages, transportation infrastructure limitations, space limitations, plant coal consumption rates, availability of acceptable coals, labor issues and weather conditions, which may interrupt production or deliveries. As of December 31, 2012, the AEP System’s coal inventory was approximately 44 days of full load burn.






Natural Gas



Through its public utility subsidiaries, AEP consumed nearly 220 billion cubic feet of natural gas during 2012 for generating power. This represents an increase of 32% from 2011 and continues a trend that began in 2010.  Since 2009, AEP’s natural gas consumption has increased approximately 130%.  The increased natural gas consumption is attributable to the addition of the Stall and Dresden natural gas combined cycle units in June 2010 and January 2012, respectively, along with increased operation of the Lawrenceburg and Waterford combined cycle units.  The efficient heat rates of these units (low 7,000 British thermal units/KWh range) coupled with sustained lower natural gas prices have supported the increased operation of AEP’s combined cycle natural gas units.  A mild 2011-12 winter and the continuation of high levels of production from shale gas developments led to higher U.S. natural gas inventories and continued to place downward pressure on natural gas prices as a result of more abundant supplies, making power generated from these units more economic.  Several of AEP’s natural gas-fired power plants are connected to at least two pipelines, which allows greater access to competitive supplies and improves delivery reliability. A portfolio of term, monthly, seasonal firm and daily peaking commodity and transportation agreements (that are entered into on a competitive basis and based on market prices) supplies natural gas requirements for each plant, as appropriate.



The following table shows the amount of natural gas delivered to the AEP System plants during the past three years and the average delivered price of natural gas purchased by AEP System companies:



201220112010Total natural gas delivered to AEP System plants (billion cubic feet)220.0166.8133.6Average price per MMBtu of purchased natural gas$3.01$4.48$4.80



Nuclear



I&M has made commitments to meet the current nuclear fuel requirements of the Cook Plant.  I&M has made and will make purchases of uranium in various forms in the spot, short-term and mid-term markets.  I&M also continues to lease a portion of its nuclear fuel.



For purposes of the storage of high-level radioactive waste in the form of spent nuclear fuel, I&M completed modifications to its spent nuclear fuel storage pool more than 10 years ago.  I&M entered into an agreement to provide for onsite dry cask storage of spent nuclear fuel to permit normal operations to continue.  I&M is scheduled to conduct further dry cask loading and storage projects on an ongoing periodic basis.  I&M began and completed its initial loading of spent nuclear fuel into the dry casks in 2012, which consisted of 12 casks (32 spent nuclear fuel assemblies contained within each).



Nuclear Waste and Decommissioning



As the owner of the Cook Plant, I&M has a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and decommission and decontaminate the plant safely.  The cost to decommission a nuclear plant is affected by NRC regulations and the spent nuclear fuel disposal program.  The most recent decommissioning cost study was completed in 2012.  In it, the estimated cost of decommissioning and disposal of low-level radioactive waste for the Cook Plant ranged from $1.3 billion to $1.7 billion in 2012 non-discounted dollars.  As of December 31, 2012, the total decommissioning trust fund balance for the Cook Plant was approximately $1.4 billion. The balance of funds available to decommission Cook Plant will differ based on contributions and investment returns.  The ultimate cost of retiring the Cook Plant may be materially different from estimates and funding targets as a result of the:



·Type of decommissioning plan selected.

·Escalation of various cost elements (including, but not limited to, general inflation and the cost of energy).

·Further development of regulatory requirements governing decommissioning.

·Technology available at the time of decommissioning differing significantly from that assumed in studies.

·Availability of nuclear waste disposal facilities.

·Availability of a United States Department of Energy facility for permanent storage of spent nuclear fuel.




Accordingly, management is unable to provide assurance that the ultimate cost of decommissioning the Cook Plant will not be significantly different than current projections.  We will seek recovery from customers through our regulated rates if actual decommissioning costs exceed our projections.  See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies under the heading Nuclear Contingencies, included in the 2012 Annual Reports, for information with respect to nuclear waste and decommissioning.



Low-Level Radioactive Waste



The Low-Level Waste Policy Act of 1980 mandates that the responsibility for the disposal of low-level radioactive waste rests with the individual states.  Low-level radioactive waste consists largely of ordinary refuse and other items that have come in contact with radioactive materials.  Michigan does not currently have a disposal site for such waste available.  I&M cannot predict when such a site may be available. However the states of Utah and Texas have licensed low level radioactive waste disposal sites which currently accept low level radioactive waste from Michigan waste generators.  There is currently no set date limiting I&M’s access to either of these facilities.  The Cook Plant has a facility onsite designed specifically for the storage of low level radioactive waste.  In the event that low level radioactive waste disposal facility access becomes unavailable, then low level radioactive waste can be stored onsite at this facility.



Structured Arrangements Involving Capacity, Energy and Ancillary Services



In January 2000, OPCo and National Power Cooperatives (NPC), an affiliate of Buckeye, entered into an agreement relating to the construction and operation of a 510 MW gas-fired electric generating peaking facility to be owned by NPC, called the Mone Plant.  The Mone Plant began operations in 2002.  OPCo is entitled to 100% of the power generated by the Mone Plant, and is responsible for the fuel and other costs of the facility through May 2014.  Following that, NPC and OPCo will be entitled to 80% and 20%, respectively, of the power of the Mone Plant, and both parties will generally be responsible for their allocable portion of the fuel and other costs of the facility.



Certain Power Agreements



I&M



The Unit Power Agreement between AEGCo and I&M, dated March 31, 1982, provides for the sale by AEGCo to I&M of all the capacity (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo at the Rockport Plant.  Whether or not power is available from AEGCo, I&M is obligated to pay a demand charge for the right to receive such power (and an energy charge for any associated energy taken by I&M).  The agreement will continue in effect until the last of the lease terms of Unit 2 of the Rockport Plant has expired (currently December 2022) unless extended in specified circumstances.



Pursuant to an assignment between I&M and KPCo, and a unit power agreement between KPCo and AEGCo, AEGCo sells KPCo 30% of the capacity (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo from both units of the Rockport Plant.  KPCo has agreed to pay to AEGCo the amounts that I&M would have paid AEGCo under the terms of the Unit Power Agreement between AEGCo and I&M for such entitlement.  The KPCo unit power agreement expires in December 2022.



OPCo



The Unit Power Agreement between AEGCo and OPCo dated March 15, 2007, provides for the sale by AEGCo to OPCo of all the capacity and associated unit contingent energy and ancillary services available to OPCo from the Lawrenceburg Plant, a 1,146 MW gas-fired unit owned by AEGCo.  OPCo is obligated to pay a capacity charge (whether or not power is available from the Lawrenceburg Plant), and the fuel, operating and maintenance charges associated with the energy dispatched by OPCo, and to reimburse AEGCo for other costs associated with the operation and ownership of the Lawrenceburg Plant.  The agreement will continue in effect until December 31, 2017 unless extended as set forth in the agreement.




OVEC





ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION



General



Other than AEGCo, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries own and operate transmission and distribution lines and other facilities to deliver electric power.  See Item 2 – Properties for more information regarding the transmission and distribution lines.  Most of the transmission and distribution services are sold to retail customers of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries in their service territories.  These sales are made at rates approved by the state utility commissions of the states in which they operate, and in some instances, approved by the FERC.  See Item 1 – Utility Operations – Regulation – Rates.  The FERC regulates and approves the rates for wholesale transmission transactions.  See Item 1 – Utility Operations – Regulation – FERC.  As discussed below, some transmission services also are separately sold to non-affiliated companies.



Other than AEGCo, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries hold franchises or other rights to provide electric service in various municipalities and regions in their service areas.  In some cases, these franchises provide the utility with the exclusive right to provide electric service.  These franchises have varying provisions and expiration dates.  In general, the operating companies consider their franchises to be adequate for the conduct of their business.  For a discussion of competition in the sale of power, see Item 1 – Utility Operations – Competition.



The use and the recovery of costs associated with the transmission assets of the AEP East Companies, including WPCo and KGPCo, are subject to the rules, protocols and agreements in place with PJM and as approved by the FERC.



Transmission Coordination Agreement, OATT, and ERCOT Protocols



PSO, SWEPCo and AEPSC are parties to the TCA.  Under the TCA, a coordinating committee is charged with the responsibility of (a) overseeing the coordinated planning of the transmission facilities of the parties to the agreement, including the performance of transmission planning studies, (b) the interaction of such subsidiaries with independent system operators and other regional bodies interested in transmission planning and (c) compliance with the terms of the OATT filed with the FERC and the rules of the FERC relating to such tariff.  Pursuant to the TCA, AEPSC has responsibility for monitoring the reliability of their transmission systems and administering the OATT on behalf of the other parties to the agreement.  The TCA also provides for the allocation among the parties of revenues collected for transmission and ancillary services provided under the OATT.  These allocations have been determined by the FERC-approved OATT for the SPP (with respect to PSO and SWEPCo) and PUCT-approved protocols for ERCOT (with respect to TCC and TNC).






The following table shows the net (credits) or charges allocated pursuant to the TCA, SPP OATT and ERCOT protocols as described above for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:



Years Ended December 31,201220112010(in thousands)PSO$12,300$9,000$10,500SWEPCo(12,300)(9,000)(10,500)TCC2,1002,1002,100TNC(2,100)(2,100)(2,100)



Transmission Services for Non-Affiliates



In addition to providing transmission services in connection with their own power sales, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries through RTOs also provide transmission services for non-affiliated companies.  See Item 1 – Utility Operations – Electric Transmission and Distribution – Regional Transmission Organizations, below.  Transmission of electric power by AEP’s public utility subsidiaries is regulated by the FERC.



Coordination of East and West Zone Transmission



AEP’s System Transmission Integration Agreement provides for the integration and coordination of the planning, operation and maintenance of the transmission facilities of AEP East and AEP West Companies.  The System Transmission Integration Agreement functions as an umbrella agreement in addition to the TA and the TCA.  AEP’s System Transmission Integration Agreement contains two service schedules that govern:



·The allocation of transmission costs and revenues.

·The allocation of third-party transmission costs and revenues and System dispatch costs.



The System Transmission Integration Agreement contemplates that additional service schedules may be added as circumstances warrant.



Regional Transmission Organizations



The AEP East Companies are members of PJM, and SWEPCo and PSO are members of the SPP (both FERC-approved RTOs).  RTOs operate, plan and control utility transmission assets in a manner designed to provide open access to such assets in a way that prevents discrimination between participants owning transmission assets and those that do not.  The remaining AEP West Companies (TCC and TNC) are members of ERCOT.



REGULATION



General



Except for transmission and/or retail generation sales in certain of its jurisdictions, AEP’s public utility subsidiaries’ retail rates and certain other matters are subject to traditional cost-based regulation by the state utility commissions.  AEP’s public utility subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FERC under the Federal Power Act with respect to wholesale power and transmission service transactions as well as certain unbundled retail transmission rates mainly in Ohio.  I&M is subject to regulation by the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect to the operation of the Cook Plant.  AEP and its public utility subsidiaries are also subject to the regulatory provisions of EPACT, much of which is administered by the FERC.  EPACT provides the FERC increased utility merger oversight.




Rates



Historically, state utility commissions have established electric service rates on a cost-of-service basis, which is designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover its cost of providing service and to earn a reasonable return on its investment used in providing that service.  A utility’s cost of service generally reflects its operating expenses, including operation and maintenance expense, depreciation expense and taxes.  State utility commissions periodically adjust rates pursuant to a review of (a) a utility’s adjusted revenues and expenses during a defined test period and (b) such utility’s level of investment.  Absent a legal limitation, such as a law limiting the frequency of rate changes or capping rates for a period of time, a state utility commission can review and change rates on its own initiative.  Some states may initiate reviews at the request of a utility, customer, governmental or other representative of a group of customers.  Such parties may, however, agree with one another not to request reviews of or changes to rates for a specified period of time.



Public utilities have traditionally financed capital investments until the new asset is placed in service.  Provided the asset was found to be a prudent investment, it was then added to rate base and entitled to a return through rate recovery.  Given long lead times in construction, the high costs of plant and equipment and volatile capital markets, we are actively pursuing strategies to accelerate rate recognition of investments and cash flow.  AEP representatives continue to engage our state commissioners and legislators on alternative ratemaking options to reduce regulatory lag and enhance certainty in the process.  These options include pre-approvals, a return on construction work in progress, rider/trackers, formula rates and the inclusion of future test-year projections into rates.



In many jurisdictions, the rates of AEP’s public utility subsidiaries are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled electric service (i.e., generation, transmission and distribution service).  In the ERCOT area of Texas, our utilities have exited the generation business and they currently charge unbundled cost-based rates for transmission and distribution service only.  In Ohio, rates for electric service are unbundled for generation, transmission and distribution service.  Historically, the state regulatory frameworks in the service area of the AEP System reflected specified fuel costs as part of bundled (or, more recently, unbundled) rates or incorporated fuel adjustment clauses in a utility’s rates and tariffs.  Fuel adjustment clauses permit periodic adjustments to fuel cost recovery from customers and therefore provide protection against exposure to fuel cost changes.



The following state-by-state analysis summarizes the regulatory environment of certain major jurisdictions in which AEP operates.  Several public utility subsidiaries operate in more than one jurisdiction.  See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, entitled Rate Matters, included in the 2012 Annual Reports, for more information regarding pending rate matters.



Indiana



I&M provides retail electric service in Indiana at bundled rates approved by the IURC, with rates set on a cost-of-service basis.  Indiana provides for timely fuel and purchased power cost recovery through a fuel cost recovery mechanism.



Ohio



OPCo provides “default” retail electric service to customers at unbundled rates pursuant to the Ohio electric restructuring legislation.  OPCo provides distribution and transmission services to retail customers within its service territory at cost-based rates approved by the PUCO or by the FERC.  While Ohio transmission and distribution services continue to be established using more traditional cost-based methods, generation rates are currently priced using a hybrid approach that incorporates components of cost and market.  We are seeking regulatory approval from the FERC to transfer the Ohio generation assets to a newly formed wholly owned competitive Ohio generation affiliate as of January 1, 2014.  The recovery of those generation assets will be subject to market prices starting in mid-May 2015.






Oklahoma



PSO provides retail electric service in Oklahoma at bundled rates approved by the OCC.  PSO’s rates are set on a cost-of-service basis.  Fuel and purchased energy costs above or below the amount included in base rates are recovered or refunded by applying fuel adjustment and other factors to retail kilowatt-hour sales.  The factors are generally adjusted annually and are based upon forecasted fuel and purchased energy costs.  Over or under collections of fuel and purchased energy costs for prior periods are returned to or recovered from customers in the year following when new annual factors are established.



Texas



Retail customers in TCC’s and TNC’s ERCOT service area of Texas are served through REPs.  TCC and TNC provide transmission and distribution service on a cost-of-service basis at rates approved by the PUCT and wholesale transmission service under tariffs approved by the FERC consistent with PUCT rules.  Effective September 2009, competition in the SPP area of Texas has been delayed until certain steps defined by statute and by PUCT rule have been accomplished.  As such, the PUCT continues to approve base and fuel rates for SWEPCo’s Texas operations on a cost of service basis.



Virginia



APCo currently provides retail electric service in Virginia at unbundled rates approved by the Virginia SCC.  Virginia generally allows for timely recovery of fuel costs through a fuel adjustment clause.  Transmission services are provided at OATT rates based on rates established by the FERC.  In addition to base rates and fuel cost recovery, APCo is permitted to recover a variety of costs through rate adjustment clauses.



West Virginia



APCo and WPCo provide retail electric service at bundled rates approved by the WVPSC, with rates set on a cost-of-service basis.  West Virginia generally allows for timely recovery of fuel costs through an expanded net energy cost which trues-up to actual expenses.




The following table illustrates certain regulatory information with respect to the states in which the public utility subsidiaries of AEP operate:



JurisdictionPercentage of AEP System Retail Revenues (a)Percentage of OSS Profits Shared with RatepayersAEP Utility Subsidiaries Operating in that JurisdictionAuthorized Return on Equity (b)Ohio29%No sharing included in the ESPOPCo10.2% (c)Texas13%Not applicable in ERCOTTCC9.96%Not applicable in ERCOTTNC9.96%90% in SPPSWEPCo10.33%West Virginia12%100%APCo10.00%100%WPCo10.00%Virginia12%75%APCo10.90%Oklahoma10%75%PSO10.15%Indiana9%50% below and above certain level (d)I&M10.20%Louisiana5%50% to 100% (e)SWEPCo10.57%Kentucky4%60% below and above certain level (f)KPCo10.50%Arkansas3%50% to 100% (g)SWEPCo10.25%Michigan2%80%I&M10.20%Tennessee1%Not applicableKGPCo12.00%



(a)Represents the percentage of Utility Operations segment revenue from sales to retail customers to total Utility Operations segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012.

(b)Identifies the predominant authorized return on equity and may not include other, less significant, permitted recovery.  Actual return on equity varies from authorized return on equity.

(c)OPCo’s authorized return on equity for distribution rates is 10.2%.  OPCo’s generation revenues are governed by its Electric Security Plan (ESP) as approved by the PUCO.

(d)There is an annual $26.9 million credit established for off-system sales in base rates.  If the off-system sales profits do not meet the level built into base rates, ratepayers reimburse I&M 50% of the shortfall.  If the off-system sales profits exceed the level built into base rates, I&M reimburses ratepayers 50% of the excess.

(e)$874,000 and below, 100% is given to customers.From $874,001 to $1,314,000, 85% is given to customers.Above $1,314,000, 50% is given to customers.

(f)There is an annual $15.3 million credit established for off-system sales in base rates.  If the monthly off-system sales profits do not meet the monthly level built into base rates, ratepayers reimburse KPCo 60% of the shortfall.  If the monthly off-system sales profits exceed the monthly level built into base rates, KPCo reimburses ratepayers 60% of the excess.

(g)$758,600 and below, 100% is given to customers.From $758,601 to $1,167,078, 85% is given to customers.Above $1,167,078, 50% is given to customers.




FERC





The FERC oversees RTOs, entities created to operate, plan and control utility transmission assets.  Order 2000 also prescribes certain characteristics and functions of acceptable RTO proposals.  The AEP East Companies are members of PJM.  SWEPCo and PSO are members of SPP.



The FERC has jurisdiction over the issuances of securities of most of our public utility subsidiaries, the acquisition of securities of utilities, the acquisition or sale of certain utility assets and mergers with another electric utility or holding company.  In addition, both the FERC and state regulators are permitted to review the books and records of any company within a holding company system.  EPACT gives the FERC increased utility merger oversight.



Competition



Under current Ohio law, electric generation is sold in a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers in Ohio have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service.  CRES providers are targeting retail customers by offering alternative generation service.  In 2011, based upon an average annual load, approximately 10% of our Ohio load had switched to CRES providers.  As of December 31, 2012, that amount had increased to 51%.



The public utility subsidiaries of AEP, like the electric industry generally, face competition in the sale of available power on a wholesale basis, primarily to other public utilities and power marketers.  The Energy Policy Act of 1992 was designed, among other things, to foster competition in the wholesale market by creating a generation market with fewer barriers to entry and mandating that all generators have equal access to transmission services.  As a result, there are more generators able to participate in this market.  The principal factors in competing for wholesale sales are price (including fuel costs), availability of capacity and power and reliability of service.



AEP’s public utility subsidiaries also compete with self-generation and with distributors of other energy sources, such as natural gas, fuel oil and coal, within their service areas.  The primary factors in such competition are price, reliability of service and the capability of customers to utilize sources of energy other than electric power.  With respect to competing generators and self-generation, the public utility subsidiaries of AEP believe that they generally maintain a favorable competitive position.  With respect to alternative sources of energy, the public utility subsidiaries of AEP believe that the reliability of their service and the limited ability of customers to substitute other cost-effective sources for electric power place them in a favorable competitive position, even though their prices may be higher than the costs of some other sources of energy.



Significant changes in the global economy have led to increased price competition for industrial customers in the United States, including those served by the AEP System.  Some of these industrial customers have requested price reductions from their suppliers of electric power.  In addition, industrial customers that are downsizing or reorganizing often close a facility based upon its costs, which may include, among other things, the cost of electric power.  The public utility subsidiaries of AEP cooperate with such customers to meet their business needs through,


for example, providing various off-peak or interruptible supply options pursuant to tariffs filed with, and approved by, the various state commissions.  Occasionally, these rates are negotiated with the customer, and then filed with the state commissions for approval.



Seasonality



The sale of electric power is generally a seasonal business.  In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter.  The pattern of this fluctuation may change due to the nature and location of AEP’s facilities and the terms of power sale contracts into which AEP enters.  In addition, AEP has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  Unusually mild weather in the future could diminish AEP’s results of operations and may impact its financial condition.  Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase AEP’s results of operations.



TRANSMISSION OPERATIONS



AEPTCo Overview



AEPTCo, a subsidiary of AEP, is a holding company for seven FERC-regulated transmission-only electric utilities, each of which is geographically aligned with our existing utility operating companies.  AEPTCo is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of AEP.  AEPTCo’s seven wholly-owned transmission-only public utility companies (Transcos) are:



AEP East Transmission Companies(all operating within PJM)



·AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc. (APTCo) (covering Virginia)

·AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, Inc. (IMTCo)

·AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc. (KTCo)

·AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc. (OHTCo)

·AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, Inc. (WVTCo)



AEP West Transmission Companies(all operating within SPP)



·AEP Oklahoma Transmission Company, Inc. (OKTCo)

·AEP Southwestern Transmission Company, Inc. (SWTCo) (covering Arkansas and Louisiana)



The Transcos develop, own and operate transmission assets that are physically connected to AEP’s existing system.  They are regulated for rate-making purposes exclusively by the FERC and employ a forward-looking formula rate tariff design.  The Transcos are independent of but overlay AEP’s existing vertically-integrated utility operating companies.  IMTCo, OHTCo, OKTCo and WVTCo have received all necessary approvals for formation.  IMTCo, OHTCo and OKTCo currently own and operate transmission assets.  APTCo has received approval from the Virginia SCC, although the approval requires APTCo to request project-by-project approval from the Virginia SCC.  Applications for regulatory approvals have been filed for the remaining Transcos and are currently under consideration in Arkansas, Kentucky and Louisiana.  As of December 31, 2012, AEPTCo had $378million of transmission assets in-service with plans to construct nearly $1.9 billion of additional transmission assets through 2015.



Capital Investment Strategy



All of the Transcos’ capital needs are provided by Parent, AEPTCo and/or the AEP Utility Money Pool.  The Utility Money Pool is used to meet the short-term borrowing needs of AEP regulated utility subsidiaries.  The Utility Money Pool operates in accordance with the terms and conditions approved in regulatory orders.  We forecast approximately $700 million, excluding AFUDC, of construction expenditures in 2013 for the Transcos.






In October 2012, AEPTCo completed a $250 million debt offering and immediately loaned $200 million and $50 million in proceeds to OHTCo and IMTCo, respectively.  In December 2012, AEPTCo issued an additional $75 million in debt and immediately loaned the proceeds to OKTCo.  APTCo will issue an additional $25 million in March 2013 but it is not yet determined which subsidiaries of AEPTCo will receive the proceeds.



Transmission development through the Transcos is primarily driven by



·Improvements to local area reliability by upgrading, rebuilding or replacing existing, aging infrastructure.

·Construction of new facilities to support both customer points of delivery and generation interconnections and new facilities required to maintain grid reliability associated with generation resource retirements.

·Projects assigned as a result of the regional planning initiatives conducted by PJM and SPP.  PJM and SPP identify the need for transmission in support of regional reliability, congestion reduction and the integration of supply-side resources (primarily renewable) and retirements of generation facilities.



Regulatory Environment



The Transcos establish transmission rates annually through forward looking formula rate filings with the FERC pursuant to the FERC-approved formula rate implementation protocols.  FERC has a formal review process in place to ensure updated transmission rates are prudently incurred and reasonably calculated.  The annual updates are submitted to PJM and SPP, respectively, for public posting on their respective websites and submitted to FERC in an informational filing.  Any interested party may participate in the review of the annual update and must comply with defined timelines to request additional information on such rate updates.



An OATT is the FERC rate schedule that provides the terms and conditions for transmission and related services on a transmission provider’s transmission system (for the Transcos, PJM or SPP).  FERC requires transmission providers to offer transmission service to all eligible customers (i.e., load-serving entities, power marketers, generators, and customers in states with supplier choice) on a non-discriminatory basis.  The PJM and SPP OATTs provide standard terms and conditions to ensure consistent service availability and treatment of all transmission customers.



The Transcos’ rates are included in the respective OATT for PJM and SPP.  PJM and SPP collect the Transcos’ rates from transmission customers taking service under the PJM and SPP OATTs, based on the terms and conditions in the respective OATTs for the service taken.  Some charges are directly assigned to a transmission customer, but the majority of the charges are paid by transmission customers taking transmission service to serve load, deliver power, or to connect generation resources.



The FERC establishes transmission service rates for transmission owners (including the Transcos), as derived from their annual transmission revenue requirement (ATRR).  Each of the Transcos’ ATRR establishes rates for a one-year period based on the current projects in-service and proposed projects for a defined timeframe.  The ATRR also includes a true-up calculation during the annual formula update for the previous year’s billings, eliminating any potential for over- or under-recovery of the allowed return on and of the plant in-service.  The Transcos collectively filed rate base increases of $283 million and $104 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively.  The total transmission revenue requirement filed in the ATRR for 2012 and 2011 equaled $35 million and $13 million, respectively.



The cost of service formula rate mechanism allows for a return on equity of 11.49% based on a capital structure of up to 50% equity for the AEP East Transmission Companies.  The AEP West Transmission Companies are allowed a return on equity of 11.20% based on a capital structure of up to 50% equity. The authorized returns on equity for the Transcos are commensurate with the FERC-authorized returns on equity in the PJM and SPP OATTs, respectively, for AEP’s utility subsidiaries.



Joint Venture Initiatives



AEP has established joint ventures with other electric utility companies for the purpose of developing, building, and owning Extra High Voltage (EHV) transmission lines that seek to improve reliability and market efficiency and provide transmission access to remote generation sources in North America.  Our joint ventures are at various stages of regulatory and RTO approval.


ETT, our largest joint venture, was established with MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (MidAmerican) to construct, fund, own and operate electric transmission assets within ERCOT, including transmission projects in the Competitive Renewable Energy Zone (CREZ).  The PUCT has awarded approximately $1.5 billion of total CREZ investment to ETT.  AEP has a 50% ownership interest in ETT.



Electric Transmission America (ETA) is a joint venture between AEP and MidAmerican to build and own electric transmission assets.  Prairie Wind Transmission, a joint venture between ETA and Westar Energy, began construction of a Kansas EHV transmission project in 2012.  The approximately $180 million project is expected to be in service by the end of 2014.  AEP has a 50% ownership interest in ETA and a 25% interest in Prairie Wind through its ownership interest in ETA.



Pioneer Transmission, LLC (Pioneer) is a joint venture between AEP and Duke Energy.  AEP has a 50% ownership interest in Pioneer.  The first segment of Pioneer’s proposed line linking Duke Energy’s Greentown Station to AEP’s Rockport Station was included in the 2011 MISO Transmission Expansion Plan as a Multi-Value Project (MVP).  Subject to regulatory approval, Pioneer has agreed to jointly develop the first segment with Northern Indiana Public Service Company as part of the settlement of a dispute regarding the rights to develop the project.  The remaining portion of the project will be evaluated by MISO and PJM as part of their next planning review cycles.  The estimated cost to complete the entire Pioneer project is $950 million.



RITELine Transmission Development, LLC (RTD) is a joint venture between AEP and Exelon.  AEP owns 50% of RTD.  RITELine Indiana, LLC (RITELine IN) is a joint venture between AEP and RTD.  AEP, directly and indirectly through RTD, has an 87.5% ownership interest in RITELine IN.  RITELine Illinois, LLC (RITELine IL) is a joint venture between RTD and Commonwealth Edison.  Through its ownership interest in RTD, AEP has a 12.5% interest in RITELine IL.  The RITELine project companies will build and operate approximately 420 miles of high-voltage transmission lines and related facilities in Indiana (with a projected cost of $400 million) and Illinois (with a projected cost of $1.2 billion).  RTD received an order from the FERC in October 2011 granting incentives for the RITELine IN and RITELine IL projects.  The projects are currently under evaluation by PJM.



Transource Energy, LLC (Transource), a joint venture between AEP and Great Plains Energy, was formed in 2012 primarily to pursue competitive transmission projects in the PJM, SPP and MISO transmission regions.  Its first two projects are the Iatan-Nashua Project and the Sibley-Nebraska City Project, which were approved by the SPP in 2009 and 2010, respectively.  AEP has an 86.5% ownership interest, and Great Plains Energy Incorporated holds a minority ownership interest, in Transource.



Business services for the joint ventures are provided by AEPSC and other AEP subsidiaries and the joint venture partners.  Therefore, the joint ventures do not have any employees.  For the equity investments within our Transmission Operations segment, we forecast approximately $55 million of AEP equity contributions in 2013 to support construction expenditures and the payment of operating expenses.



AEP RIVER OPERATIONS



Our AEP River Operations segment transports coal and dry bulk commodities primarily on the Ohio, Illinois and lower Mississippi rivers.  Almost all of our customers are nonaffiliated third parties who obtain the transport of coal and dry bulk commodities for various uses.  We charge these customers market rates for the purpose of making a profit.  Depending on market conditions and other factors, including barge availability, we permit AEP utility subsidiary affiliates to use certain of our equipment at rates that reflect our cost.  Our affiliated utility customers procure the transport of coal for use as fuel in their respective generating plants.  AEP River Operations includes approximately 2,500 barges, 45 towboats and 25 harbor boats that we own or lease.  These assets are separate from the barges and towboats dedicated exclusively to transporting coal for use as fuel in our own generating facilities discussed under the prior segment.  See Item 1 – Utility Operations – Electric Generation – Fuel Supply – Coal and Lignite.



Competition within the barging industry for major commodity contracts is intense, with a number of companies offering transportation services in the waterways we serve.  We compete with other carriers primarily on the basis of commodity shipping rates, but also with respect tocustomer service, available routes, value-added services (including scheduling convenience and flexibility).  The industry continues to experience consolidation.  The resulting companies increasingly offer the widespread geographic reach necessary to support major national


customers.  Demand for barging services can be seasonal, particularly with respect to the movement of harvested agricultural commodities (beginning in the late summer and extending through the fall).  Cold winter weather, water levels and inefficient older river locks operated by others may also limit our operations when certain of the waterways we serve are closed or commercial traffic is limited.



Our transportation operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard, federal laws, state laws and certain international conventions.  Legislation has been proposed that could make our towboats subject to inspection by the U.S. Coast Guard.



GENERATION AND MARKETING






EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF AEPas of February 26, 2013



The following persons are executive officers of AEP.  Their ages are given as of February 1, 2013.  The officers are appointed annually for a one-year term by the board of directors of AEP.



Nicholas K. Akins

President and Chief Executive Officer

Age 52

Chief Executive Officer since November 2011 and President since January 2011. Was Executive Vice President-Generation from September 2006 to December 2010.



Lisa M. Barton

Executive Vice President – Transmission

Age 47

Executive Vice President-Transmission of AEPSC since August 2011. Was Senior Vice President-Transmission Strategy and Business Development of AEPSC from November 2010 to July 2011, Vice President-Transmission Strategy and Business Development of AEPSC from October 2007 to November 2010.



David M. Feinberg

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Age 43

Executive Vice President since January 2013.  Was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from January 2012 to December 2012 and  Senior Vice President and General Counsel of AEPSC from May 2011 to December 2011. Previously served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Allegheny Energy, Inc. from 2006 to 2011.



Lana L. Hillebrand

Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer

Age 52

Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since December 2012.  Previously served as South Region leader-Senior Partner at Aon Hewitt since 2010.  Was U.S. Consulting Client Development leader-managing principal at Aon Hewitt from 2008-2010.



Mark C. McCullough

Executive Vice President – Generation

Age 53

Executive Vice President-Generation of AEPSC since January 2011.  Was Senior Vice President-Fossil & Hydro Generation of AEPSC from February 2008 to December 2010 and Vice President-Baseload Generation of AEPSC from June 2005 to February 2008.



Robert P. Powers

Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer

Age 58

Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2011.  Was President-Utility Group from April 2009 to November 2011, President-AEP Utilities from January 2008 to April 2009.



Brian X. Tierney

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Age 45

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2009.  Was Executive Vice President-AEP Utilities East of AEPSC from January 2008 to October 2009.



Dennis E. Welch

Executive Vice President and Chief External Officer

Age 61

Executive Vice President and Chief External Officer since January 2013.  Was Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer from October 2011 to December 2012.  Was Executive Vice President-Environment, Safety & Health and Facilities from January 2008 to September 2011.


