ITEM  1. BUSINESS

The Company

KLA-Tencor Corporation (“KLA-Tencor” or the “Company” and also referred to as “we” or “our”) is a leading supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries. Our products are also used in a number of other high technology industries, including the light emitting diode (“LED”), data storage and photovoltaic industries, as well as general materials research.

Within our primary area of focus, our comprehensive portfolio of products, services, software and expertise helps integrated circuit (“IC” or “chip”) manufacturers manage yield throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process—from research and development to final volume production. These products and solutions are designed to help customers accelerate their development and production ramp cycles, to achieve higher and more stable semiconductor die yields, and to improve overall profitability.

KLA-Tencor’s products and services are used by the vast majority of bare wafer, IC, lithography reticle (“reticle” or “mask”) and disk manufacturers in the world. These customers turn to us for inline wafer and IC defect monitoring, review and classification; reticle defect inspection and metrology; packaging and interconnect inspection; critical dimension (“CD”) metrology; pattern overlay metrology; film thickness, surface topography and composition measurements; measurement of in-chamber process conditions, wafer shape and stress metrology; computational lithography tools; and overall yield and fab-wide data management and analysis systems. Our advanced products, coupled with our unique yield management services, allow us to deliver the solutions our customers need to accelerate their yield learning rates and significantly reduce their risks and costs.

Certain industry and technical terms used in this section are defined in the subsection entitled “Glossary” found at the end of this Item 1.

KLA-Tencor was formed in April 1997 through the merger of KLA Instruments Corporation and Tencor Instruments, two long-time leaders in the semiconductor equipment industry that originally began operations in 1975 and 1976, respectively.

Additional information about KLA-Tencor is available on our website at www.kla-tencor.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. Additionally, these filings may be obtained through the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov), which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Documents that are not available through the SEC’s website may also be obtained by mailing a request to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA/PA Operations, 100 F Street N.E., Mail Stop 2736, Washington, DC 20549, by submitting a request via email to the SEC at foiapa@sec.gov or by sending a fax to the SEC at 1-202-772-9337.

Industry

General Background

The semiconductor industry is KLA-Tencor’s core focus. The semiconductor fabrication process begins with a bare silicon wafer—a round disk that is six, eight or twelve inches in diameter, about as thick as a credit card and gray in color. The process of manufacturing wafers is in itself highly sophisticated, involving the creation of large ingots of silicon by pulling them out of a vat of molten silicon. The ingots are then sliced into wafers. Prime silicon wafers are then polished to a mirror finish. Other, more specialized wafers, such as epitaxial silicon (“epi”) and silicon-on-insulator (“SOI”), are also becoming common in the semiconductor industry.

The manufacturing cycle of an IC is grouped into three phases: design, fabrication and testing. IC design involves the architectural layout of the circuit, as well as design verification and reticle generation. The fabrication of a chip is accomplished by depositing a series of film layers that act as conductors, semiconductors or insulators on bare wafers. The deposition of these film layers is interspersed with numerous other process steps that create circuit patterns, remove portions of the film layers, and perform other functions such as heat treatment, measurement and inspection. Most advanced chip designs require hundreds of individual steps, many of which are performed multiple times. Most chips consist of two main structures: the lower structure, typically consisting of transistors or capacitors which perform the “smart” functions of the chip; and the upper “interconnect”









structure, typically consisting of circuitry which connects the components in the lower structure. When all of the layers on the wafer have been fabricated, each chip on the wafer is tested for functionality. The wafer is then cut into individual devices, and those chips that passed functional testing are packaged. Final testing is performed on all packaged chips.

Current Trends

The rapid growth of consumer demand for mobile devices, including smartphones, tablets and portable PCs, is currently driving the electronics industry and, as a result, the semiconductor industry as well. Contained within each of these latest consumer devices are advanced semiconductors that are helping enable the features consumers want in device performance, such as battery management and speed, at a lower cost. Alongside this market growth, the industry continues to witness a high rate of change in technology, with the emergence of new techniques and architectures such as three-dimensional (“3-D”) transistors, advanced patterning lithography, and semiconductors with critical dimensions at 28 nanometer and below in production today. KLA-Tencor's inspection and measurement technologies play a key role in enabling the success of our customers' advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes.

Companies that anticipate future market demands by developing and refining new technologies and manufacturing processes are better positioned to lead in the semiconductor market. Accelerating the yield ramp and maximizing production yields of high-performance devices are key goals of modern semiconductor manufacturing. Ramping to high-volume production ahead of competitors can dramatically increase the revenue an IC manufacturer realizes for a given product. During past industry cycles, semiconductor manufacturers generally contended with a few key new technologies or market trends, such as a specific design rule shrink. In today’s market, driven by consumer demand for low-cost electronic goods, the leading semiconductor manufacturers are investing in simultaneous production integration of multiple new process technologies, some requiring new substrate and film materials, new geometries and advanced lithography techniques.

While many of these technologies have been adopted at the development and pilot production stages of chip manufacturing, significant challenges and risks associated with each technology have affected their adoption into full-volume production. For example, as design rules decrease, yields become more sensitive to the size and density of defects, while device performance characteristics (namely speed, capacity or power management) become more sensitive to parameters such as linewidth and film thickness variation. New process materials, such as high-k dielectrics, SOI wafers and immersion lithography-capable photoresists, require extensive characterization before they can be used in the manufacturing process. Moving several of these advanced technologies into production at once only adds to the risks that chipmakers face.

The continuing evolution of semiconductor devices to smaller geometries and more complex multi-level circuitry has significantly increased the performance and cost requirements of the capital equipment used to manufacture these devices. Construction of an advanced wafer fabrication facility today can cost over $5 billion, substantially more than previous generation facilities. In addition, chipmakers are demanding increased productivity and higher returns from their manufacturing equipment and are also seeking ways to extend the performance of their existing equipment.

By developing new process control and yield management tools that help chipmakers accelerate the adoption of these new technologies into volume production, we enable our customers to better leverage these increasingly expensive facilities and significantly improve their return on investment (“ROI”). Once customers’ production lines are operating at high volume, our tools help ensure that yields are stable and process excursions are identified for quick resolution. In addition, the move to each new generation’s smaller design rules, coupled with new materials and device innovation, has increased in-process variability, which requires an increase in inspection and metrology sampling.

KLA-Tencor systems not only analyze defectivity and metrology issues at critical points in the wafer, reticle and IC manufacturing processes, but also provide information to our customers so that they can identify and address the underlying process problems. The ability to locate the source of defects and resolve the underlying process issues enables our customers to improve control over their manufacturing processes. This helps them increase their yield of high-performance parts and deliver their products to market ahead of their competitors—thus maximizing their profit. With our broad portfolio of application-focused technologies and our dedicated yield technology expertise, we are in position to be a key supplier of comprehensive yield management solutions for customers’ next-generation products, helping our customers respond to the challenges posed by shrinking device sizes, the transition to new production materials, new device and circuit architecture, more demanding lithography processes, the transition from 300 millimeter to 450 millimeter wafers, and new back-end packaging techniques.









Products

KLA-Tencor is engaged primarily in the design, manufacture and marketing of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries.

KLA-Tencor’s offerings can be broadly categorized into the following groups: Chip Manufacturing, Wafer Manufacturing, Reticle Manufacturing, Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (“CMOS”) Image Sensors Manufacturing, Solar Manufacturing, LED Manufacturing, Data Storage Media/Head Manufacturing, Microelectromechanical Systems (“MEMS”) Manufacturing, and General Purpose/Lab Applications. We also provide refurbished KLA-Tencor tools as part of our K-T CertifiedTMprogram for customers manufacturing larger design-rule devices, as well as comprehensive service and support for our products. The more significant of these products are included in the product table at the end of this “Products” section. Every year, we introduce a number of new products; some of the new products we introduced in the fiscal year endedJune 30, 2012are described below.

Chip Manufacturing

KLA-Tencor’s comprehensive portfolio of defect inspection, review, metrology, in-situ process monitoring and lithography modeling tools help chip manufacturers manage yield throughout the entire fabrication process—from research and development to final volume production. These products and solutions are designed to help fabs accelerate their development and production ramp cycles, to achieve higher and more stable semiconductor die yields, and to improve overall profitability.

Front-End Defect Inspection

KLA-Tencor’s front-end defect inspection tools cover a broad range of yield applications within the IC manufacturing environment, including: research and development; incoming wafer qualification; reticle qualification; and tool, process and line monitoring. Patterned and unpatterned wafer inspectors find particles, pattern defects and electrical issues on the front surface, back surface and edge of the wafer, allowing engineers to detect and monitor critical yield excursions. Fabs rely on our high sensitivity reticle inspection systems to identify defects in reticles at an early stage, to prevent reticle defects from printing on production wafers. The defect data generated by our inspectors is compiled and reduced to relevant root-cause and yield-analysis information with our suite of data management tools. By implementing our front-end defect inspection and analysis systems, chipmakers are able to take quick corrective action, resulting in faster yield improvement and better time to market.

During the fiscal year endedJune 30, 2012, we launched several front-end defect inspection products that help accelerate yield for next-generation design node devices:

Patterned Wafer Inspection

•The 2900 Series broadband optical wafer defect inspectors feature a second generation laser-pumped plasma light source, high resolution optics, and new apertures and optics modes to capture yield-critical defect types and die areas.

•The PumaTM9650 Series narrowband optical wafer defect inspection systems provide improved sensitivity and noise control to capture and monitor excursions in yield-critical die areas.

•The eS800 Series electron-beam wafer defect inspection systems capture physical and electrical defects on a wide range of layers and structures and feature a new electron gun, smaller pixels and patented optics for increased sensitivity.

Macro Inspection

•The CIRCL, a macro defect inspection, metrology and review cluster tool, monitors the front side, back side and edge of the wafer for defects and, in parallel, measures wafer edge profile, edge bead concentricity and macro overlay error.

Unpatterned Wafer/Surface Inspection

•The Surfscan®SP3 inspection system is designed with deep-ultraviolet illumination to increase sensitivity and a new stage technology for higher throughput.

The products that we launched during the fiscal year endedJune 30, 2012further strengthened our broad range of offerings that support the front-end defect inspection market. In the field of patterned wafer inspection, we offer our 2900 Series, 2830 Series, 2820 Series and 2810 Series systems (for broadband optical defect inspection); our Puma 9650 Series, Puma 9500 Series and Puma 9100 Series systems (for narrowband optical defect inspection); and our eS800 system (for electron-beam defect inspection). In the field of unpatterned wafer and surface inspection, we offer the Surfscan®SP3 Series and the Surfscan SP2 Series (wafer defect inspection systems for process tool qualification and monitoring using blanket films and bare wafers); and the SURFmonitorTM(integrated on the Surfscan SP3 Series and an









optional module for the Surfscan SP2 Series), which enables surface quality measurements and capture of low-contrast defects. For reticle inspection, we offer our TeraFabHTTMproducts, which are photomask inspection systems that allow IC fabs to qualify incoming reticles and inspect production reticles for contaminants and other process-related changes. In addition, we offer a number of other products for the front-end defect inspection market, as reflected in the product table at the conclusion of this “Products” section.

Back-End Defect Inspection

KLA-Tencor offers standalone inspection systems for various applications in the field of semiconductor packaging (i.e., at the back-end of the semiconductor manufacturing process). Our Component Inspector (“CI”) products inspect various semiconductor components that are handled in a tray, such as microprocessors or memory chips. Component inspection capability includes 3-D coplanarity inspection, measurement of the evenness of the contacts and two-dimensional surface inspection. The ICOS®CI-T620 offers scalability to a wide range of packages and sizes and increased system throughput.

Defect Review

KLA-Tencor’s defect review systems capture high resolution images of the defects detected by inspection tools. These images enable defect classification, helping chipmakers to identify and resolve yield issues. Our complete line of defect review and classification tools spans optical and electron-beam technologies, from bench-top research systems to production-worthy tools having full factory automation. KLA-Tencor’s suite of defect inspectors, defect review and classification tools and data management systems form a broad solution for finding, identifying and tracking yield-critical defects and process issues. In August 2011, we introduced the eDRTM-7000, an electron-beam wafer defect review and classification system that utilizes a third generation immersion column and an advanced stage to quickly and accurately re-locate, image and classify yield-critical defects.

Metrology

KLA-Tencor’s array of metrology solutions addresses IC, substrate, photovoltaic solar cell and medical device manufacturing, as well as scientific research and other applications. Precise metrology and control of pattern dimensions, film thicknesses, layer-to-layer alignment, pattern placement, surface topography and electro-optical properties are growing in importance in many industries as critical dimensions narrow, film thicknesses shrink to countable numbers of atomic layers and devices become more complex. The ArcherTM300 LCM platform includes both imaging- and scatterometry-based measurement modules that enable characterization of overlay error and CD on lithography process layers for advanced patterning technologies. The SpectraShapeTMoptical CD and shape metrology systems fully characterize and monitor the critical dimensions and 3-D shapes of geometrically complex features incorporated by some IC manufacturers in their latest generation devices. Finally, the AlerisTMfamily of film metrology tools provides reliable and precise measurement of film thickness, refractive index, stress and composition for a broad range of film layers. In addition, we offer a number of other products for the metrology market, as reflected in the product table at the conclusion of this “Products” section.

In-Situ Process Monitoring

KLA-Tencor’s SensArray®SensorWafers series provides a unique method, not available from conventional equipment monitors, to capture the effect of the process environment on production wafers. In December 2011, we launched a new portfolio of SensArray advanced wireless temperature monitoring wafers that implement time-based, in-situ temperature monitoring of production wafers. SensArray products are used in many semiconductor and flat panel display fabrication processes, including lithography, etch and deposition.

Lithography Modeling

KLA-Tencor’s PROLITHTMproduct line provides researchers at advanced IC manufacturers, lithography hardware suppliers, track companies and material providers with virtual lithography software to explore critical-feature designs, manufacturability and process-limited yield of proposed lithographic technologies without the time and expense of printing hundreds of test wafers using experimental materials and prototype process equipment.

During the fiscal year endedJune 30, 2012, we introduced PROLITH X4.0, which enables large-scale lithography simulations to troubleshoot challenging issues in extreme ultra-violet (“EUV”) and advanced optical lithography technologies.









Wafer Manufacturing

KLA-Tencor’s portfolio of products focused on the demands of wafer manufacturing companies includes inspection, metrology and data management systems. Specialized inspection tools assess surface quality and detect, count and bin defects during the wafer manufacturing process and as a critical part of outgoing inspection. Wafer geometry tools ensure that the wafer is extremely flat and uniform in thickness, with precisely controlled surface topography. Specifications for wafer defectivity, geometry and surface quality are tightening as the dimensions of transistors become so small that the geometry of the substrate can substantially affect transistor performance.

Our wafer inspection portfolio is anchored by the Surfscan SP3 Series launched in July 2011. The Surfscan SP3 Series and the Surfscan SP2 Series are defect inspection systems designed to enable development and production monitoring of polished wafers, epi wafers and engineered substrates. The SURFmonitor module characterizes wafer surface quality and captures the low-contrast defects. The WaferSightTMplatform offers wafer geometry and nanotopography metrology capabilities. Other products that we offer for the wafer manufacturing market are highlighted in the product table at the conclusion of this “Products” section.

Reticle Manufacturing

Error-free reticles, or masks, are necessary to achieving high semiconductor device yields, since reticle defects can be replicated in every die on production wafers. KLA-Tencor offers high sensitivity reticle inspection and metrology systems for mask shops, designed to help them manufacture reticles that are free of pattern defects that could print on the wafers and meet pattern placement and critical dimension uniformity specifications.

Our reticle inspection portfolio includes the TeronTM600 Series for development and manufacturing of advanced optical and EUV masks, the TeraScanTMXR system for mask shop production of reticles for the 32nm node and above and our TeraFabHT products for reticle defect monitoring capability for IC fabs. These products include the capability for mapping critical dimension uniformity across the reticle. In September 2011, we introduced a new reticle metrology system, the LMS IPRO5, the latest in the LMS IPRO line of tools that measures pattern placement error. If the pattern on the reticle is displaced from its intended location, overlay error can result on the wafer, which can lead to electrical continuity issues affecting yield, performance or reliability of the IC device.

CMOS Image Sensors Manufacturing

Image sensors are devices that convert light into electrical signal, for use primarily in cameras. As yield-limiting defects can occur at any step in the assembly process, inspecting the filter or micro-lens layers can help reduce materials waste and cycle time.

CMOS image sensor manufacturing is supported by our 8900 defect inspection system. The 8900 is designed to enable capture of a wide variety of defect types, with adjustable sensitivity and throughput settings for cost-effective defect management from initial product development through volume production of color filter arrays.

Solar Manufacturing

Photovoltaic or “solar” cells are used to produce electrical power from light. The continuing growth of the solar industry is closely related to the production cost of solar cells, as economic viability increases with lowering prices. To address our customers’ needs in this industry, KLA-Tencor offers solar wafer and cell inspection modules, yield management software, and surface profilers which are integrated in different stages of the solar wafer and cell production lines to increase yield and lower production costs.

KLA-Tencor’s ICOS PVI inspection modules are designed for high speed, automated, optical in-line inspection of both the front and backside of monocrystalline and polycrystalline solar wafers and cells, as well as optical classification of solar cells at the final stage of the production flow.

LED Manufacturing

LEDs are becoming more commonly used in solid-state lighting, television and notebook backlighting, and automotive applications. As LED device makers target aggressive cost and performance targets, they place significant emphasis on improved process control and yield during the manufacturing process.

KLA-Tencor offers a portfolio of three systems to help LED manufacturers reduce production costs and increase product output: Candela®8620, Klarity®LED and ICOS WI-2250. The Candela 8620 substrate and epi wafer inspection system provides automated inspection and quality control of LED substrates, detecting defects that can impact device performance,









yield and field reliability. Klarity LED is an automated defect data management and analysis system for LED yield enhancement. The ICOS WI-2250 is a patterned wafer inspection tool that offers automated optical inspection and metrology of microelectonic devices on a variety of wafer substrates, surface inspection, and two-dimensional bump inspection.

Data Storage Media/Head Manufacturing

Advancements in data storage are being driven by a wave of innovative consumer electronics with small form factors and immense storage capacities, as well as an increasing need for high-volume storage options to back up new methods of remote computing and networking (such as cloud computing). Our process control and yield management solutions are designed to enable customers to rapidly understand and resolve complex manufacturing problems, which can help improve time to market and product yields. In the front-end and back-end of thin-film head wafer manufacturing, we offer the same process control equipment that we serve to the semiconductor industry. In addition, we offer an extensive range of test equipment and surface profilers with particular strength in photolithography. In substrate and media manufacturing, we offer metrology and defect inspection solutions with KLA-Tencor’s optical surface analyzers.

MEMS Manufacturing

The increasing demand for MEMS technology is coming from diverse industries such as automotive, space and consumer electronics. MEMS have the potential to revolutionize nearly every product category by bringing together silicon-based microelectronics with micromachining technology, making possible the realization of complete systems-on-a-chip. KLA-Tencor offers the tools and techniques such as defect inspection and review, optical inspection and surface profiling, first developed for the integrated circuit industry, for this emerging market.

General Purpose/Lab Applications

A range of industries, including general scientific and materials research and optoelectronics, require measurements of surface topography to either control their processes or research new material characteristics. Typical measurement parameters that our tools address include flatness, roughness, curvature, peak-to-valley, asperity, waviness, texture, volume, sphericity, slope, density, stress, bearing ratio and distance (mainly in the micron to nanometer range).

K-T Certified

K-T Certified is our certified refurbished tools program that delivers fully refurbished and tested KLA-Tencor tools to our customers with guaranteed performance. In addition to high-quality pre-owned 300mm and sub-200mm tools for the integrated circuit, reticle, substrate, MEMS and data storage markets, K-T Certified also offers system software and hardware performance upgrades to extend the capabilities of existing equipment. When a customer needs to move to the next manufacturing node, K-T Certified can help maximize the value of the customer's existing assets through K-T Certified's repurchase, trade-in and redeployment services.

K-T Services

Our K-T Services program enables our customers in all business sectors to maintain the high performance and productivity of our products through a flexible portfolio of services. Whether a manufacturing site is producing integrated circuits, wafers or reticles, K-T Services delivers yield management expertise spanning advanced technology nodes, including collaboration with customers to determine the best products and services to meet technology requirements and optimize cost of ownership. Our comprehensive services include: proactive management of tools to identify and improve performance; expertise in optics, image processing and motion control with worldwide service engineers, 24/7 technical support teams and knowledge management systems; and an extensive parts network to ensure worldwide availability of parts.









Product Table

The following table presents a representative list of the products that we offered during the course of the fiscal year endedJune 30, 2012:

MARKETSAPPLICATIONSPRODUCTSChip ManufacturingFront-End Defect InspectionPatterned Wafer2900 Series, 2830 Series, 2820 Series, 2810 SeriesPumaTM9650, Puma 9500 Series, Puma 9100 SerieseS800Macro and EdgeCIRCLVisEdge®product familyLDS Series8900Unpatterned Wafer/SurfaceSurfscan®SP3 Series, Surfscan SP2 SeriesSURFmonitorTMReticleTeraFabHTTMSeriesData ManagementKlarity®product familyBack-End Defect InspectionComponent InspectionICOS®CI product familyDefect ReviewElectron-beameDRTM-7000 SeriesOpticalINS & IRIS product familiesMetrologyOverlay and CDArcherTMSeriesOptical CD and ShapeSpectraCDTMSeriesSpectraShapeTMproduct familyFilm Thickness/IndexAlerisTMproduct familySpectraFxTMSeriesWafer Geometry and TopographyWaferSightTMSURFmonitorIon Implant and AnnealTherma-Probe®Surface MetrologyHRP®-350P-Series product familyResistivityRS product familyData ManagementK-T Analyzer®In-Situ Process MonitoringLithographySensArray®product familyPlasma EtchSensArray product familyImplant and WetSensArray PlasmaSuiteLithography ModelingVirtual Lithography SoftwarePROLITHTMand related product families











MARKETS AND APPLICATIONSPRODUCTSWafer ManufacturingSurface and Defect InspectionSurfscanSP2 Series, Surfscan SP3 SeriesSURFmonitorWafer Geometry and Nanotopography MetrologyWaferSightSURFmonitorData ManagementFabVisionTMReticle ManufacturingDefect InspectionTeraScanTMXRTeronTMSeriesTeraFabHT SeriesPattern Placement MetrologyLMS IPRO SeriesCMOS Image Sensors ManufacturingDefect Inspection8900Solar ManufacturingOptical InspectionICOSPVI-6Surface MetrologyP-Series product familyData ManagementFabVision SolarLED ManufacturingPatterned Wafer InspectionICOS WI product familyDefect Inspection (substrates and epi wafers)Candela®product familySurface MetrologyP-Series product familyData ManagementKlarity LEDData Storage Media/Head ManufacturingThin-Film Head Metrology and InspectionPuma 91xx SeriesAleris product familyHRP-250SpectraCD 200Archer SeriesP-Series product familyVirtual LithographyPROLITHK-T AnalyzerIn-Situ Process MonitoringSensArray product familyTransparent and Metal Substrate InspectionCandela product familyYield ManagementKlarity DefectMEMS ManufacturingSurface Metrology: Stylus ProfilingP-Series product familySealing InspectionIRISDefect ReviewIRISGeneral Purpose/Lab ApplicationsSurface Metrology: Stylus ProfilingP-Series product familyAlpha-Step®product familySurface Metrology: Optical ProfilingMicroXAM SeriesProcess Chamber ConditionsSensArray product family









Customers

To support our growing global customer base, we maintain a significant presence throughout Asia, the United States and Europe, staffed with local sales and applications engineers, customer and field service engineers and yield management consultants. We count among our largest customers the leading semiconductor manufacturers in each of these regions.

For the fiscal years endedJune 30, 2012,2011and2010, the following customers each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues:

Year ended June 30,201220112010Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.Intel CorporationIntel CorporationTaiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company LimitedSamsung Electronics Co., Ltd.Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company LimitedTaiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited

Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn is driven by the current and anticipated market demand for ICs and products utilizing ICs. We do not consider our business to be seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical with respect to the capital equipment procurement practices of semiconductor manufacturers, and it is impacted by the investment patterns of such manufacturers in different global markets. Downturns in the semiconductor industry or slowdowns in the worldwide economy could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results.

Sales, Service and Marketing

Our sales, service and marketing efforts are aimed at building long-term relationships with our customers. We focus on providing a single and comprehensive resource for the full breadth of process control and yield management products and services. Our customers benefit from the simplified planning and coordination, as well as the increased equipment compatibility, that are realized as a result of dealing with a single supplier for multiple products and services. Our revenues are derived primarily from product sales, mostly through our direct sales force.

We believe that the size and location of our field sales, service and applications engineering, and marketing organizations represent a competitive advantage in our served markets. We have direct sales forces in Asia, the United States and Europe. We maintain an export compliance program that is designed to meet the requirements of the United States Departments of Commerce and State.

As ofJune 30, 2012, we employed approximately 2,240 sales and related personnel, service engineers and applications engineers. In addition to sales and service offices in the United States, we conduct sales, marketing and services out of wholly-owned subsidiaries or branches in other countries, including Belgium, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. International revenues accounted for approximately79%of our total revenues in the fiscal year endedJune 30, 2012and approximately81%of our total revenues for each of the fiscal years endedJune 30, 2011and2010. Additional information regarding our revenues from foreign operations for our last three fiscal years can be found in Note 16, “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We believe that sales outside the United States will continue to be a significant percentage of our total revenues. Our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to compete successfully in Asia, one of the largest markets for our equipment. Our ability to compete in this area is dependent upon the continuation of favorable trading relationships between countries in the region and the United States, and our continuing ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with leading semiconductor companies in the region.









International sales and operations may be adversely affected by the imposition of governmental controls, restrictions on export technology, political instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and the difficulties associated with staffing and managing international operations. In addition, international sales may be adversely affected by the economic conditions in each country. The revenues from our international business may also be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although we attempt to manage some of the currency risk inherent in non-U.S. dollar product sales through hedging activities, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. These factors, as well as any of the other risk factors related to our international business and operations that are described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results.

Backlog

Our shipment backlog for systems and associated warranty totaled $947 million and $988 million as ofJune 30, 2012and2011, respectively, and primarily consists of sales orders where written customer requests have been received and the delivery is anticipated within the next 12 months. Orders for service contracts and unreleased products are excluded from shipment backlog. All orders are subject to cancellation or delay by the customer, often with limited or no penalties. We make adjustments for shipment backlog obtained from acquired companies, sales order cancellations, customer delivery date changes and currency adjustments. Shipment backlog is not subject to normal accounting controls for information that is either reported in or derived from our basic financial statements. In addition, the concept of shipment backlog is not defined in the accounting literature, making comparisons between periods and with other companies difficult and potentially misleading.

Our revenue backlog, which includes sales orders where physical deliveries have been completed, but for which revenue has not been recognized pursuant to our policy for revenue recognition, totaled $286 million and $382 million as ofJune 30, 2012and2011, respectively. Orders for service contracts are excluded from revenue backlog.

Because customers can potentially change delivery schedules or delay or cancel orders, and because some orders are received and shipped within the same quarter, our shipment backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of business volumes or actual sales for any succeeding periods. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry combined with the lead times from our suppliers sometimes result in timing disparities between, on the one hand, our ability to manufacture, deliver and install products and, on the other, the requirements of our customers. In our efforts to balance the requirements of our customers with the availability of resources, management of our operating model and other factors, we often must exercise discretion and judgment as to the timing and prioritization of manufacturing, deliveries and installations of products, which may impact the timing of revenue recognition with respect to such products.

Research and Development

The market for yield management and process monitoring systems is characterized by rapid technological development and product innovation. These technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. We believe that continued and timely development of new products and enhancements to existing products are necessary to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our human and financial resources to research and development programs and seek to maintain close relationships with customers to remain responsive to their needs. In addition, we may enter into certain strategic development and engineering programs whereby certain government agencies or other third parties fund a portion of our research and development costs. As ofJune 30, 2012, we employed approximately 1,310 research and development personnel.

Our key research and development activities during the fiscal year endedJune 30, 2012involved the development of process control and yield management equipment aimed at addressing the challenges posed by shrinking device sizes, the transition to new production materials, new device and circuit architecture, more demanding lithography processes, the transition from 300 millimeter to 450 millimeter wafers, and new back-end packaging techniques. For information regarding our research and development expenses during the last three fiscal years, including costs offset by our strategic development and engineering programs, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which is the result of our continuing significant investments in product research and development. Even during down cycles in the semiconductor industry, we have remained committed to significant engineering efforts toward both product improvement and new product development in order to enhance our competitive position. New product introductions, however, may contribute to fluctuations in operating results, since customers may defer ordering existing products, and, if new products have reliability or quality problems, those problems may result in reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. There can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and manufacture new products, or that new products introduced by us will be accepted in the marketplace. If we do not successfully introduce new products, our results of operations will be adversely affected.









Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies

We perform system design, assembly and testing in-house and utilize an outsourcing strategy for the manufacture of components and major subassemblies. Our in-house manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling and testing components and subassemblies that are acquired through third-party vendors and integrating those subassemblies into our finished products. Our principal manufacturing activities take place in the United States (Milpitas, California), Singapore, Israel, Belgium, Germany and China. As ofJune 30, 2012, we employed approximately 990 manufacturing personnel.

Some critical parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, “parts”) that we use are designed by us and manufactured by suppliers in accordance with our specifications, while other parts are standard commercial products. We use numerous vendors to supply parts and raw materials for the manufacture and support of our products. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that these parts and raw materials are available from multiple suppliers, this is not always possible, and certain parts and raw materials included in our systems may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Through our business interruption planning, we endeavor to minimize the risk of production interruption by, among other things, monitoring the financial condition of suppliers of key parts and raw materials, identifying (but not necessarily qualifying) possible alternative suppliers of such parts and materials and ensuring adequate inventories of key parts and raw materials are available to maintain manufacturing schedules.

Although we seek to reduce our dependence on sole and limited source suppliers, in some cases the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources, or disruptions within our suppliers' often-complex supply chains, could disrupt scheduled deliveries to customers, damage customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Competition

The worldwide market for process control and yield management systems is highly competitive. In each of our product markets, we face competition from established and potential competitors, some of which may have greater financial, research, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have, such as Applied Materials, Inc. and Hitachi Electronics Engineering Co., Ltd. We may also face future competition from new market entrants from other overseas and domestic sources. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and processes and to introduce new products and processes with improved price and performance characteristics. We believe that, to remain competitive, we will require significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process research and development.

We believe that, while price and delivery are important competitive factors, the customers’ overriding requirement is for systems that easily and effectively incorporate automated and highly accurate inspection and metrology capabilities into their existing manufacturing processes to enhance productivity. Significant competitive factors in the market for process control and yield management systems include system performance, ease of use, reliability, installed base and technical service and support, as well as overall cost of ownership.

Management believes that we are well positioned in the market with respect to both our products and services. However, any loss of competitive position could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, revenues, gross margins and market share, any of which would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.

Acquisitions and Alliances

We continuously evaluate strategic acquisitions and alliances to expand our technologies, product offerings and distribution capabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including management issues and costs in connection with integration of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The inability to manage these risks effectively could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.

Patents and Other Proprietary Rights

We protect our proprietary technology through reliance on a variety of intellectual property laws, including patent, copyright and trade secret. We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the United States and abroad and intend to continue pursuing the legal protection of our technology through intellectual property laws. In addition, from time to time we acquire license rights under United States and foreign patents and other proprietary rights of third parties, and we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures.









Although we consider patents and other intellectual property significant to our business, due to the rapid pace of innovation within the process control and yield management systems industry, we believe that our protection through patent and other intellectual property rights is less important than factors such as our technological expertise, continuing development of new systems, market penetration, installed base and the ability to provide comprehensive support and service to customers worldwide.

No assurance can be given that patents will be issued on any of our applications, that license assignments will be made as anticipated, or that our patents, licenses or other proprietary rights will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. No assurance can be given that any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us with a competitive advantage. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology or that competitors will not be able to independently develop similar or functionally competitive technology.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment, including without limitation the management of hazardous materials that we use in our business operations.  Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position.

However, any failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of certain of our business activities, limitations on our ability to sell our products, obligations to remediate environmental contamination, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations could require us to invest in potentially costly pollution control equipment, alter our manufacturing processes or use substitute materials. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to future liabilities.

Employees

As ofJune 30, 2012, we employed approximately 5,710 people. None of our employees are represented by a labor union; however, our employees in the German operations of our MIE business unit are represented by an employee work council. We have not experienced work stoppages and believe that our employee relations are good.

Competition is intense in the recruiting of personnel in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industry. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our continued ability to hire and retain qualified management, marketing and technical employees.

Glossary

This section provides definitions for certain industry and technical terms commonly used in our business, which are used elsewhere in this Item 1:

back-endProcess steps that make up the second half of the semiconductor manufacturing process, from contact through completion of the wafer prior to electrical test.broadbandAn illumination source with a wide spectral bandwidth.critical dimension (CD)The dimension of a specified geometry (such as the width of a patterned line or the distance between two lines) that must be within design tolerances in order to maintain semiconductor device performance consistency.design rulesRules that set forth the allowable dimensions of particular features used in the design and layout of integrated circuits.dieThe term for a single semiconductor chip on a wafer.electron-beamAn illumination source comprised of a stream of electrons emitted by a single source.













epitaxial silicon (epi)A substrate technology based on growing a crystalline silicon layer on top of a silicon wafer. The added layer, where the structure and orientation are matched to those of the silicon wafer, includes dopants (impurities) to imbue the substrate with special electronic properties.



excursionFor a manufacturing step or process, a deviation from normal operating conditions that can lead to decreased performance or yield of the final product.



fabThe main manufacturing facility for processing semiconductor wafers.



front-endThe processes that make up the first half of the semiconductor manufacturing process, from wafer start through final contact window processing.



in-situRefers to processing steps or tests that are done without moving the wafer. Latin for “in original position.”



interconnectA highly conductive material, usually aluminum or polysilicon, that carries electrical signals to different parts of a die.



lithographyA process in which a masked pattern is projected onto a photosensitive coating that covers a substrate.



mask shopA manufacturer that produces the reticles used by semiconductor manufacturers.



metrologyThe science of measurement to determine dimensions, quantity or capacity. In the semiconductor industry, typical measurements include critical dimension, overlay and film thickness.



microelectromechanical systems (MEMS)Micron-sized mechanical devices powered by electricity, created using processes similar to those used to manufacture IC devices.



micronA metric unit of linear measure that equals 1/1,000,000 meter (10-6m), or 10,000 angstroms (the diameter of a human hair is approximately 75 microns).



nanometer (nm)One billionth (10-9) of a meter.



narrowbandAn illumination source with a narrow spectral bandwidth, such as a laser.



patternedFor semiconductor manufacturing and industries using similar processing technologies, refers to substrates that have electronic circuits (transistors, interconnects, etc.) fabricated on the surface.



photoresistA radiation-sensitive material that, when properly applied to a variety of substrates and then properly exposed and developed, masks portions of the substrate with a high degree of integrity.



process controlThe ability to maintain specifications of product and equipment during manufacturing operations.



reticleA very flat glass plate that contains the patterns to be reproduced on a wafer.



silicon-on-insulator (SOI)A substrate technology comprised of a thin top silicon layer separated from the silicon substrate by a thin insulating layer of glass or silicon dioxide, used to improve performance and reduce the power consumption of IC circuits.



substrateA wafer on which layers of various materials are added during the process of manufacturing semiconductor devices or circuits.



unpatternedFor semiconductor manufacturing and industries using similar processing technologies, refers to substrates that do not have electronic circuits (transistors, interconnects, etc.) fabricated on the surface. These can include bare silicon wafers, other bare substrates or substrates on which blanket films have been deposited.











yield managementThe ability of a semiconductor manufacturer to oversee, manage and control its manufacturing processes so as to maximize the percentage of manufactured wafers or die that conform to pre-determined specifications.

__________________

The definitions above are from internal sources, as well as the SEMATECH Dictionary of Semiconductor Terms.











