Item 1.Business



Assurant, Inc.
(“Assurant” or the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation formed in connection with the initial public offering (“IPO”) of its common stock, which began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on February 5, 2004.
Prior to the IPO, Fortis, Inc., a Nevada corporation, formed Assurant and merged into it on February 4, 2004.



Assurant is a provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and select worldwide markets. Our four
operating segments—Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health, and Assurant Employee Benefits—partner with clients who are leaders in their industries and build leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance
market segments. Among the products offered by the operating segments are warranties and service contracts, pre-funded funeral insurance, lender–placed homeowners insurance, manufactured housing homeowners insurance, individual health and small
employer group health insurance, group dental, disability, and life insurance and employee—funded voluntary benefits.



Assurant’s mission is to be the premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and select
worldwide markets. To achieve this mission, we focus on the following areas:



Building and maintaining specialty insurance businesses—Our four operating segments are focused on serving specific sectors of the insurance market. We believe that the diversity of our
businesses helps us to maintain financial stability because our businesses will generally not be affected in the same way by the same economic and operating trends.



Leveraging a set of core capabilities for competitive
advantage—We pursue a strategy of building leading positions in specialized market segments for insurance products and related services by applying our core capabilities to create competitive advantages—managing risk; managing
relationships with large distribution partners; and integrating complex administrative systems. These core capabilities represent areas of expertise that are advantages within each of our businesses. We seek to generate attractive returns by
building on specialized market knowledge, well-established distribution relationships and, in some businesses, economies of scale.



Managing targeted growth initiatives—Our approach to mergers, acquisitions and other growth opportunities reflects our prudent
and disciplined approach to managing our businesses. Our mergers, acquisitions and business development process targets new business that complements or supports our existing business model.



Identifying and adapting to evolving market needs—Assurant’s businesses strive to adapt to
changing market conditions by tailoring product and service offerings to specific customer and client needs. By understanding consumer dynamics in our core markets, we seek to design innovative products and services that will enable us to sustain
long-term profitable growth and market leading positions.



Competition



Assurant’s businesses focus on niche products and related services within broader insurance markets. Although we face competition in
each of our businesses, we believe that no single competitor competes against us in all of our business lines. The business lines in which we operate are generally characterized by a limited number of competitors. Competition in each business is
based on a number of factors, including quality of service, product features, price, scope of distribution, financial strength ratings and name recognition. The relative importance of these factors varies by product and market. We compete for
customers and distributors with insurance companies and other financial services companies in our businesses.



Competitors of Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property include insurance companies and financial institutions. Assurant
Health’s main competitors are other health insurance companies, Health Maintenance Organizations (“HMOs”) and the Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans in states where we write business. Assurant Employee Benefits’ competitors include
other benefit and life insurance companies, dental managed care entities and not-for-profit dental plans.







Segments



For additional information on our segments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations—Results of Operations” and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report.



Assurant Solutions



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2011December 31, 2010Gross written premiums for selected product groupings (1):Domestic extended service contracts and warranties (2)$1,470,605$1,193,423International extended service contracts and warranties (2)622,674523,382Preneed life insurance (face sales)759,692734,884Domestic credit insurance399,564422,825International credit insurance1,013,486968,878Net earned premiums and other considerations$2,438,407$2,484,299Segment net income$141,553$103,206Equity (3)$1,443,797$1,448,684



(1)Gross written premiums does not necessarily translate to an equal amount of subsequent net earned premium since Assurant Solutions reinsures a portion of their premiums
to third parties and to insurance subsidiaries of its clients.

(2)Extended service contracts include warranty contracts for products such as cellular phones, personal computers, consumer electronics, appliances, automobiles and
recreational vehicles.

(3)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income.



Products and Services



Assurant Solutions targets growth in three key product areas: domestic and international extended service contracts (“ESC”) and
warranties; preneed life insurance; and international credit insurance.



ESC and Warranties:Through partnerships with leading retailers and original equipment manufacturers, we underwrite and provide administrative services for ESC and warranties. These contracts
provide consumers with coverage on cellular phones, personal computers, consumer electronics, appliances, automobiles and recreational vehicles, protecting them from certain covered losses. We pay the cost of repairing or replacing customers’
property in the event of mechanical breakdown, accidental damage, and casualty losses such as theft, fire, and water damage. Our strategy is to provide service to our clients that addresses all aspects of the extended service contract or warranty,
including program design and marketing strategy. We provide administration, claims handling and customer service. We believe that we maintain a differentiated position in this marketplace as a provider of both the required administrative
infrastructure and insurance underwriting capabilities.



Preneed Life Insurance:Preneed life insurance allows individuals to prepay for a funeral in a single payment or in multiple payments over a fixed number of years. The insurance policy proceeds are
used to address funeral costs at death. These products are only sold in the U.S. and Canada and are generally structured as whole life insurance policies in the U.S. and annuity products in Canada.



Credit Insurance:Our credit insurance products offer
protection from life events and uncertainties that arise in purchasing and borrowing transactions. Credit insurance programs generally offer consumers the option to protect a credit card balance or installment loan in the event of death, involuntary
unemployment or disability, and are generally available to all consumers without the underwriting restrictions that apply to term life insurance.



Regulatory changes have reduced the demand for credit insurance in the U.S. Consequently, we have seen a reduction in credit insurance
domestic gross written premiums, a trend we expect to continue.







Marketing and Distribution



Assurant Solutions focuses on establishing strong, long-term
relationships with leading distributors of its products and services. We partner with some of the largest consumer electronics and appliance retailers and original equipment manufacturers to market our ESC and warranty products. In our Preneed
business, we have an exclusive relationship with Services Corporation International (“SCI”), the largest funeral provider in North America.



Several of our distribution agreements are exclusive. Typically these agreements have terms of one to five years and allow us to integrate
our administrative systems with those of our clients.



In addition to the domestic market, we operate in Canada, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), Argentina, Brazil, Puerto Rico, Chile, Germany, Spain, Italy, Mexico and China. In these markets, we
primarily sell ESC and credit insurance products through agreements with financial institutions, retailers and wireless service providers. Although there has been contraction in the domestic credit insurance market, several international markets are
experiencing growth in the credit insurance business. Expertise gained in the domestic credit insurance market has enabled us to extend our administrative infrastructure internationally. Systems, training, computer hardware and our overall market
development approach are customized to fit the particular needs of each targeted international market.



Underwriting and Risk Management



We write a significant portion of our contracts on a retrospective commission basis. This allows us to adjust commissions based on claims experience. Under these commission arrangements, the compensation
of our clients is based upon the actual losses incurred compared to premiums earned after a specified net allowance to us. We believe that these arrangements better align our clients’ interests with ours and help us to better manage risk
exposure.



Profits from our preneed life insurance
programs are generally earned from interest rate spreads—the difference between the death benefit growth rates on underlying policies and the investment returns generated on the assets we hold related to those policies. To manage these spreads,
we regularly adjust pricing to reflect changes in new money yields.



Assurant Specialty Property



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2011December 31, 2010Net earned premiums and other considerations by major product grouping:Homeowners (lender-placed and voluntary)$1,274,485$1,342,791Manufactured housing (lender-placed and voluntary)216,613220,309Other (1)413,540390,123Total$1,904,638$1,953,223Segment net income$305,065$424,287Loss ratio (2)45.0%35.1%Expense ratio (3)38.7%39.5%Combined ratio (4)81.9%73.3%Equity (5)$1,114,308$1,134,432



(1)Other primarily includes lender-placed flood, miscellaneous specialty property and multi-family housing insurance products.

(2)The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations.

(3)The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and
other income is not included in the above table.)

(4)The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and other
income is not included in the above table.)

(5)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income.







Products and Services



Assurant Specialty Property’s business strategy is to
pursue long-term growth in lender-placed homeowners insurance, and adjacent markets with similar characteristics, such as lender-placed flood insurance, and renters insurance. Assurant Specialty Property also writes other specialty products.



In June 2011 we acquired SureDeposit, the market
leader in rental security deposit alternatives. We believe that this acquisition will help build our niche multi-family housing business which is focused on distribution through property managers.



Lender-placed and voluntary homeowners insurance:The
largest product line within Assurant Specialty Property is homeowners insurance, consisting principally of fire and dwelling hazard insurance offered through our lender-placed programs. The lender-placed program provides collateral protection to
lenders, mortgage servicers and investors in mortgaged properties in the event that a homeowner does not maintain insurance on a mortgaged dwelling. Lender-placed insurance coverage is not limited to the outstanding loan balance; it provides
structural coverage, similar to that of a standard homeowners policy. The policy is based on the replacement cost of the property and ensures that a home can be repaired or rebuilt completely in the event of damage. It protects both the
lender’s interest and the borrower’s interest and equity. We also provide insurance to some of our clients on properties that have been foreclosed and are being managed by our clients. This type of insurance is called Real Estate Owned
(“REO”) insurance. This market experienced significant growth in recent years as a result of the housing crisis, but is now stabilizing.



In the majority of cases, we use a proprietary insurance-tracking administration system linked with the administrative systems of our
clients to continuously monitor the clients’ mortgage portfolios to verify the existence of insurance on each mortgaged property and identify those that are uninsured. If a potential lapse in insurance coverage is detected, we begin a process
of notification and outreach to both the homeowner and the last-known insurance carrier or agent through phone calls and written correspondence. This process usually takes 75 days to complete. If at the end of this process we still cannot verify
that insurance has not lapsed, a lender-placed policy is procured by the lender. The homeowner is still encouraged, and always maintains the option, to obtain or renew the insurance of his or her choice.



Lender-placed and voluntary manufactured housing
insurance:Manufactured housing insurance is offered on a lender-placed and voluntary basis. Lender-placed insurance is issued after an insurance tracking process similar to that described above. The tracking is performed by Assurant Specialty
Property using a proprietary insurance tracking administration system, or by the lenders themselves. A number of manufactured housing retailers in the U.S. use our proprietary premium rating technology to assist them in selling property coverages at
the point of sale.



Other insurance:We
believe there are opportunities to apply our lender-placed business model to other products and services. We have developed products in adjacent and emerging markets, such as the lender-placed flood and mandatory insurance rental markets. We also
act as an administrator for the U.S. Government under the voluntary National Flood Insurance Program, for which we earn a fee for collecting premiums and processing claims. This business is 100% reinsured to the Federal Government.



Marketing and Distribution



Assurant Specialty Property establishes long-term
relationships with leading mortgage lenders and servicers. The majority of our lender-placed agreements are exclusive. Typically these agreements have terms of three to five years and allow us to integrate our systems with those of our clients.



We offer our manufactured housing insurance
programs primarily through manufactured housing lenders and retailers, along with independent specialty agents. The independent specialty agents distribute flood products and miscellaneous specialty property products. Multi-family housing products
are distributed primarily through property management companies and affinity marketing partners.



Underwriting and Risk Management



Our lender-placed homeowners insurance program and certain of our manufactured home products are not underwritten on an individual policy basis. Contracts with our clients require us to automatically
issue these policies when a borrower’s insurance coverage is not maintained. These products are priced to factor in the lack of individual policy underwriting. We monitor pricing adequacy based on a variety of factors and adjust pricing as
required, subject to regulatory constraints.







Because several of our product lines (such as homeowners, manufactured home, and other
property policies) are exposed to catastrophe risks, we purchase reinsurance coverage to protect the capital of Assurant Specialty Property and to mitigate earnings volatility. Our reinsurance program generally incorporates a provision to allow the
reinstatement of coverage, which provides protection against the risk of multiple catastrophes in a single year.



Assurant Health



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2011December 31, 2010Net earned premiums and other considerations:Individual markets$1,286,236$1,375,005Group markets473,653489,117Total net earned premiums before premium rebates1,759,8891,864,122Premium rebates (1)(41,589)—Total$1,718,300$1,864,122Segment net income$40,886$54,029Loss ratio (2)74.0%69.9%Expense ratio (3)26.3%29.7%Combined ratio (4)98.8%98.1%Equity (5)$405,199$402,167



(1)As of January 1, 2011, the Company began accruing premium rebates to comply with the minimum medical loss ratio requirements under the Affordable Care Act.

(2)The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations.

(3)The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and
other income are not included in the above table.)

(4)The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and other
income are not included in the above table.)

(5)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income.



Product and Services



Assurant Health competes in the individual medical insurance market by offering medical insurance and short-term medical insurance to
individuals and families. Our products are offered with different plan options to meet a broad range of customer needs and levels of affordability. Assurant Health also offers medical insurance to small employer groups.



The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health
Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and the rules and regulations thereunder (together, “the Affordable Care Act”) were signed into law in March 2010 and represent significant changes to the current U.S. health care system. The
legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time. The legislation includes requirements that most individuals obtain health insurance coverage beginning in 2014 and that most large employers offer
coverage to their employees or they will be required to pay a financial penalty. In addition, the new laws encompass certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible and new fees which may not be
deductible for income tax purposes.



The
legislation will also impose new requirements and restrictions, including, but not limited to, guaranteed coverage requirements, prohibitions on some annual and all lifetime limits on amounts paid on behalf of or to our members, increased
restrictions on rescinding coverage, establishment of minimum medical loss ratio requirements, the establishment of state insurance exchanges and essential benefit packages, and greater limitations on product pricing.



One provision of the Affordable Care Act, effective
January 1, 2011, established a minimum medical loss ratio (“MLR”) designed to ensure that a minimum percentage of premiums is paid for clinical services or health care quality improvement activities. The Affordable Care Act
established an MLR of 80% for individual and small group business and 85% for large group business. If the actual loss ratios, calculated in a manner







prescribed by the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), are less than the required MLR, rebates are payable to the policyholders by August 1 of the subsequent year.
Although the HHS has issued final regulations to implement the MLR and rebate provisions of the Affordable Care Act, certain issues remain to be fully resolved, including the response from the HHS to state insurance commissioners who have requested
transitional relief from the MLR.



Although the
dynamics and characteristics of the post-reform market will be different, we believe there are still significant opportunities for us to sell individual medical insurance products. Specialty expertise will still be required and we believe that we
can earn adequate profits in this business over the long-term, without making large commitments of capital. In order to achieve these goals, we have taken significant steps to reduce operating and distribution costs and modify our product lines.
During 2011, we reduced operating costs significantly through expense initiatives and redesigned our product portfolio to offer certain supplemental and affordable choice products. We continue to build on these efforts. We may refine our strategy as
new regulations are issued or additional regulatory agency actions are taken in the wake of the Affordable Care Act. The full impact of the Affordable Care Act will not be known for many years, as it becomes effective at various dates over the next
several years. We believe that the Affordable Care Act will lead to sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system and the health insurance industry.



Individual Medical:Our medical insurance products are
sold to individuals, primarily between the ages of 18 and 64, and their families, who do not have employer-sponsored coverage. We offer a wide variety of benefit plans at different price points, which allow customers to tailor their coverage to fit
their unique needs.



Small Employer Group
Medical:Our group medical insurance is primarily sold to small companies with two to fifty employees, although larger employer coverage is available. As of December 31, 2011, our average group size was approximately five employees.



We have entered into a new
provider network arrangement with Aetna Signature Administrators®that becomes effective in March 2012. This
multi-year agreement will provide our major medical customers with access to more than one million health care providers and 7,500 hospitals nationwide. Access to this network will enhance the competitiveness of Assurant Health for individuals,
families, and small groups.



Marketing and Distribution



Our health insurance products are
principally marketed through a network of independent agents. We also market through a variety of exclusive and non-exclusive national account relationships and direct distribution channels. In addition, we market our products through North Star
Marketing, a wholly-owned affiliate that seeks business directly from independent agents. Since 2000, we have had an exclusive national marketing agreement with a major mutual insurance company whose captive agents market our individual health
products. This agreement will expire in September 2018 and allows either company to exit the agreement with six months notice. We provide many of our products through a well-known association’s administrator under an agreement that
automatically renews annually. We also have a long-term relationship with a national marketing organization with more than 50 offices.



Underwriting and Risk Management



Following the passage of the Affordable Care Act, many of the traditional risk management techniques used to manage the risks of providing
health insurance have become less relevant. The Affordable Care Act places several constraints on underwriting and mandates minimum levels of benefits for most medical coverage. It also imposes minimum loss ratio standards on many of our policies.
Assurant Health has taken steps to adjust its products, pricing and business practices to comply with the new requirements.



Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Assurant Health” and “Risk Factors—Risks Related to our
Industry—Reform of the health insurance industry could make our health insurance business unprofitable” for further details.







Assurant Employee Benefits



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2011December 31, 2010Net Earned Premiums and Other Considerations:Group dental$417,145$420,690Group disability (1)452,964488,813Group life193,914191,892Total$1,064,023$1,101,395Segment net income$43,113$63,538Loss ratio (2)72.2%69.6%Expense ratio (3)35.4%35.1%Equity (4)$621,666$582,574



(1)Includes single premiums for closed blocks.

(2)The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations.

(3)The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and
other income are not included in the above table.)

(4)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income.



Products and Services



We focus on the needs of businesses with fewer than 500 employees. We believe that our small group risk selection expertise,
administrative systems, and strong relationships with brokers who work primarily with small businesses give us a competitive advantage versus other carriers.



We offer group disability, dental, vision, life and supplemental worksite products as well as individual dental products. The group
products are offered with funding options ranging from fully employer-paid to fully employee-paid (voluntary). In addition, we reinsure disability and life products through our wholly owned subsidiary, Disability Reinsurance Management Services,
Inc. (“DRMS”).



Group Disability:
Group disability insurance provides partial replacement of lost earnings for insured employees who become disabled, as defined by their plan provisions. Our products include both short- and long-term disability coverage options. We also reinsure
disability policies written by other carriers through our DRMS subsidiary.



Group Dental:Dental benefit plans provide funding for necessary or elective dental care. Customers may select a traditional indemnity arrangement, a PPO arrangement, or a prepaid or managed care
arrangement. Coverage is subject to deductibles, coinsurance and annual or lifetime maximums. In a prepaid plan, members must use participating dentists in order to receive benefits.



Success in the group dental business is heavily dependent on a strong provider network.
Assurant Employee Benefits owns and operates Dental Health Alliance, L.L.C., a leading dental Preferred Provider Organization (“PPO”) network. We also have an agreement with Aetna that allows us to use Aetna’s Dental Access®network, which we believe increases the attractiveness of our products in the marketplace.



Group Vision:Fully-insured vision coverage is offered
through our agreement with Vision Service Plan, Inc., a leading national supplier of vision insurance. Our plans cover eye exams, glasses, and contact lenses and are usually sold in combination with one or more of our other products.



Group Life:Group term life insurance provided through
the workplace provides benefits in the event of death. We also provide accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Insurance consists primarily of renewable term life insurance with the amount of coverage provided being either a flat amount, a
multiple of the employee’s earnings, or a combination of the two. We also reinsure life policies written by other carriers through DRMS.







Supplemental Worksite Products:In addition to the traditional voluntary products, we
provide group critical illness, cancer, accident, and gap insurance. These products are generally paid for by the employee through payroll deductions, and the employee is enrolled in the coverage(s) at the worksite.



Marketing and Distribution



Our products and services are distributed through a group
sales force located in 34 offices near major metropolitan areas. Our sales representatives distribute our products and services through independent brokers and employee-benefits advisors. Daily account management is provided through the local sales
offices, further supported by regional sales support centers and a home office customer service department. Compensation of brokers in some cases includes an annual performance incentive, based on volume and retention of business.



DRMS provides turnkey group disability and life insurance
solutions to insurance carriers that want to supplement their core product offerings. Our services include product development, state insurance regulatory filings, underwriting, claims management, and other functions typically performed by an
insurer’s back office. Assurant Employee Benefits reinsures the risks written by DRMS’ clients, with the clients generally retaining shares that vary by contract.



Underwriting and Risk Management



The pricing of our products is based on the expected cost of
benefits, calculated using assumptions for mortality, morbidity, interest, expenses and persistency, and other underwriting factors. Our block of business is diversified by industry and geographic location, which serves to limit some of the risks
associated with changing economic conditions.



Disability claims management focuses on helping claimants return to work through a supportive network of services that may include
physical therapy, vocational rehabilitation, and workplace accommodation. We employ or contract with a staff of doctors, nurses and vocational rehabilitation specialists, and use a broad range of additional outside medical and vocational experts to
assist our claim specialists.



Ratings



Independent rating organizations periodically review the
financial strength of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries. Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the ability of an insurance company to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and
contractholders. These ratings are not applicable to our common stock or debt securities. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies.



Rating agencies also use an “outlook statement” of “positive”, “stable”,
“negative” or “developing” to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a rating change. A rating may have a stable outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to
change; however, a stable rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice.



Most of our active domestic operating insurance subsidiaries are rated by the A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”). In addition, six
of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries are also rated by Moody’s Investor Services (“Moody’s”) and seven are rated by Standard & Poor’s Inc., a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc.
(“S&P”).



For further information on
the risks of ratings downgrades, see “Item 1A—Risk Factors—Risks Related to our Company—A.M. Best, Moody’s and S&P rate the financial strength of our insurance company subsidiaries, and a decline in these ratings
could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.”







The following table summarizes our financial strength ratings and outlook as of
December 31, 2011:



A.M. Best (1)Moody’s (2)Standard &Poor’s (3)OutlookStable(4)(5)CompanyAmerican Bankers Insurance CompanyAA2A-American Bankers Life Assurance CompanyA-A3A-American Memorial Life Insurance CompanyA-N/AA-American Reliable Insurance CompanyAN/AN/AAmerican Security Insurance CompanyAA2A-Assurant Life of CanadaA-N/AN/ACaribbean American Life Assurance CompanyA-N/AN/ACaribbean American Property Insurance CompanyAN/AN/AJohn Alden Life Insurance CompanyA-A3BBBReliable LloydsAN/AN/AStandard Guaranty Insurance CompanyAN/AN/ATime Insurance CompanyA-A3BBBUDC Dental CaliforniaA-N/AN/AUnion Security Dental Care New JerseyA-N/AN/AUnion Security Insurance CompanyA-A3A-Union Security Life Insurance Company of New YorkA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of ArizonaA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of ColoradoA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of MichiganNRN/AN/AUnited Dental Care of MissouriA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of New MexicoA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of OhioNRN/AN/AUnited Dental Care of TexasA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of UtahNRN/AN/AVoyager Indemnity Insurance CompanyAN/AN/A



(1)A.M. Best financial strength ratings range from “A++” (superior) to “S” (suspended). Ratings of A and A- fall under the “excellent”
category, which is the second highest of ten ratings categories.

(2)Moody’s insurance financial strength ratings range from “Aaa” (exceptional) to “C” (extremely poor). A numeric modifier may be appended to
ratings from “Aa” to “Caa” to indicate relative position within a category, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Ratings of A2 and A3 are considered “good” and fall within the third highest of the nine
ratings categories.

(3)S&P’s insurer financial strength ratings range from “AAA” (extremely strong) to “R” (under regulatory supervision). A “+” or
“-” may be appended to ratings from categories AA to CCC to indicate relative position within a category. Ratings of A- (strong) and BBB+ (adequate) are within the third and fourth highest of the nine ratings categories, respectively.

(4)Moody’s has a negative outlook on all of the ratings of the Companies, except for American Bankers Insurance Company and American Security Insurance Company, which
have a stable outlook.

(5)S & P has a stable outlook on all of the ratings of the Companies, except for American Bankers Insurance Company and American Security Insurance Company, which have
a positive outlook.



Enterprise Risk Management



As an insurer, we are exposed to a wide
variety of financial, operational and other risks, as described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Enterprise risk management (“ERM”) is, therefore, a key component of our business strategies, policies, and procedures. Our ERM
process is an iterative approach with the following key phases:



1.Risk identification;

2.High-level estimation of risk likelihood and severity;

3.Risk prioritization at the business and enterprise levels;

4.Scenario analysis and detailed modeling of likelihood and severity for key enterprise risks;

5.Utilization of quantitative results and subject matter expert opinion to help guide business strategy and decision making;







Through our ERM process and our enterprise risk quantification model we monitor a variety of
risk metrics on an ongoing basis, with a particular focus on impact to net income (both GAAP and Statutory), company value and the potential need for capital infusions to subsidiaries under severe stress scenarios.



The Company’s ERM activities are coordinated by an
Enterprise Risk Management Committee (“ERMC”), which includes managers from across the Company with knowledge of the Company’s business activities, including representation from Legal, Compliance, Actuarial, Audit, Finance, and Asset
Management. The ERMC develops risk assessment and risk management policies and procedures. It facilitates the identification, reporting and prioritizing of risks faced by the Company, and is responsible for promoting a risk-aware culture throughout
the organization. The ERMC also coordinates with each of the Company’s four Business Unit Risk Committees (“BURCs”), which meet regularly and are responsible for the identification of significant risks affecting their respective
business units. Those risks which meet our internally-defined escalation criteria, including emerging risks, are then reported to the ERMC.



Our Board of Directors and senior management are responsible for overseeing significant enterprise risks. The ERMC reports regularly to
the Chief Executive Officer and presents its work periodically to both the Board of Directors and the Finance and Investment Committee.



Through the use of regular committee meetings, business unit and enterprise risk inventory templates, risk dashboards, hypothetical
scenario analysis, and quantitative modeling, the Company strives to identify, track, quantify, communicate and manage our key risks within prescribed tolerances.



Our ERM process continues to evolve, and, when appropriate,
we incorporate methodology changes, policy modifications and emerging best practices on an ongoing basis.



Regulation



The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and international regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions where it does business. Regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The
following is a summary of significant regulations that apply to our businesses and is not intended to be a comprehensive review of every regulation to which the Company is subject. For information on the risks associated with regulations applicable
to the Company, please see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”



U.S. Insurance Regulation



We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance companies are domiciled. These laws generally
require insurance companies within the insurance holding company system to register with the insurance departments of their respective states of domicile and to furnish reports to such insurance departments regarding capital structure, ownership,
financial condition, general business operations and intercompany transactions. These laws also require that transactions between affiliated companies be fair and equitable. In addition, certain intercompany transactions, changes of control, certain
dividend payments and transfers of assets between the companies within the holding company system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities.



Like all U.S. insurance companies, our insurance subsidiaries
are subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. In general, this regulation is designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of shareholders and other investors. To
that end, the laws of the various states and other jurisdictions establish insurance departments with broad powers with respect to such things as:



•licensing and authorizing companies and intermediaries (including agents and brokers) to transact business;



•regulating capital, surplus and dividend requirements;



•regulating underwriting limitations;



•regulating companies’ ability to enter and exit markets or to provide, terminate or cancel certain coverages;



•imposing statutory accounting and annual statement disclosure requirements;







•approving policy forms and mandating certain insurance benefits;



•regulating premium rates, including the ability to disapprove or reduce the premium rates companies may charge;



•regulating claims practices, including the ability to require companies to pay claims on terms other than those mandated by underlying policy
contracts;



•regulating certain transactions between affiliates;



•regulating the content of disclosures to consumers;



•regulating the type, amounts and valuation of investments;



•mandating assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds and the ability to recover such assessments in the future through premium increases; and



•regulating market conduct and sales practices of insurers and agents.



Dividend Payment Limitations.The Company’s assets consist primarily of the capital stock of our
subsidiaries. Accordingly, our future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends and to make such other payments is regulated by the states
in which our subsidiaries are domiciled. These dividend regulations vary from state to state and by type of insurance provided by the applicable subsidiary, but generally require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements
and limit the amount of dividends these subsidiaries can pay to the holding company. For more information, please see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and
Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements.”



Risk Based Capital Requirements.In order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has established certain risk-based
capital standards applicable to life, health and property and casualty insurers. Risk-based capital, which regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s statutory capital, is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium,
expense, liability and reserve items. Factors are higher for items which in the NAIC’s view have greater underlying risk. The NAIC periodically reviews the risk-based capital formula and changes to the formula could occur in the future.



Investment Regulation.Insurance company
investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations that prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments. These regulations require diversification of insurance company investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments
in certain asset categories.



Financial
Reporting.Regulators closely monitor the financial condition of licensed insurance companies and our insurance subsidiaries are required to file periodic financial reports with insurance regulators. Moreover, states regulate the form and
content of these statutory financial statements.



Products and Coverage.Insurance regulators have broad authority to regulate many aspects of our products and services. For
example, some jurisdictions require insurers to provide coverage to persons who would not be considered eligible insurance risks under standard underwriting criteria, dictating the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided
to such applicants. Additionally, certain non-insurance products and services, such as service contracts, may be regulated by regulatory bodies other than departments of insurance.



Pricing and Premium Rates.Nearly all states have
insurance laws requiring insurers to file price schedules and policy forms with the state’s regulatory authority. In many cases, these price schedules and/or policy forms must be approved prior to use, and state insurance departments have the
power to disapprove increases or require decreases in the premium rates we charge.



Market Conduct Regulation.Activities of insurers are highly regulated by state insurance laws and regulations, which govern the form and content of disclosure to consumers, advertising, sales
practices and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities enforce compliance through periodic market conduct examinations.







Guaranty Associations and Indemnity Funds.Most states require insurance companies to
support guaranty associations or indemnity funds, which are established to pay claims on behalf of insolvent insurance companies. These associations may levy assessments on member insurers. In some states member insurers can recover a portion of
these assessments through premium tax offsets and/or policyholder surcharges.



Insurance Regulatory Initiatives.The NAIC, state regulators and professional organizations have considered and are considering various proposals that may alter or increase state authority to
regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Please see Item 1A, “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Industry—Changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth” for a discussion of the
risks related to such initiatives.



Federal Regulation



Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act.



Employee Retirement
Income Security Act.Because we provide products and services for certain U.S. employee benefit plans, we are subject to regulation under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”). ERISA places certain
requirements on how the Company may do business with employers that maintain employee benefit plans covered by ERISA. Among other things, regulations under ERISA set standards for certain notice and disclosure requirements and for claim processing
and appeals. In addition, some of our administrative services and other activities may also be subject to regulation under ERISA.



HIPAA, HITECH Act and Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, along with its
implementing regulations (“HIPAA”), impose various requirements on health insurers, HMOs, health plans and health care providers. Among other things, Assurant Health and Assurant Employee Benefits are subject to HIPAA regulations requiring
certain guaranteed issuance and renewability of health insurance coverage for individuals and small groups (generally groups with 50 or fewer employees) and limitations on exclusions based on pre-existing conditions.



HIPAA also imposes requirements on health insurers, health
plans and health care providers to ensure the privacy and security of protected health information. These privacy and security provisions were further expanded by the privacy provisions contained in the Health Information Technology for Economic and
Clinical Health Act (the “HITECH Act”), which enhances penalties for violations of HIPAA and requires regulated entities to provide notice of security breaches of protected health information to individuals and HHS. In addition, certain of
our activities are subject to the privacy regulations of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which, along with regulations adopted thereunder, generally requires insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and
financial information is used, and to provide them with the opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures.







Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In July 2010, President
Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which implements comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the U.S. Among other things, Congress created the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”). While the CFPB does not have direct jurisdiction over insurance products, it is possible that regulations promulgated by the CFPB may extend its authority more broadly to cover these
products and thereby affect the Company or our clients.



In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury, headed by a director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a general
supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance (other than health insurance) and is required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the
system of insurance regulation in the U.S., including by increased national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states.



International Regulation



We are subject to regulation and supervision of our international operations in various jurisdictions. These regulations, which vary
depending on the jurisdiction, include anti-corruption laws; solvency regulations; various privacy, insurance, tax, tariff and trade laws and regulations; and corporate, employment, intellectual property and investment laws and regulations.



In addition to the U.S., the Company operates in
Canada, the U.K., Argentina, Brazil, Puerto Rico, Chile, Germany, Spain, Italy, Mexico and China, and our operations are supervised by regulatory authorities of these jurisdictions. For example, our operations in the U.K. are subject to regulation
by the Financial Services Authority (the “FSA”). Insurers authorized by the FSA are generally permitted to operate throughout the rest of the European Union, subject to satisfying certain FSA requirements and, in some cases, meeting
additional local regulatory requirements.



We are
also subject to certain U.S. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”) regulates U.S. companies in their dealings with foreign officials,
prohibiting bribes and similar practices. In addition, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, which became effective during 2011, has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the U.K.



Securities and Corporate Governance Regulation



As a company with publicly-traded securities, Assurant is subject to certain legal and regulatory requirements
applicable generally to public companies, including the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) relating to public reporting and disclosure,
accounting and financial reporting, and corporate governance matters. Additionally, Assurant, Inc. is subject to the corporate governance laws of Delaware, its state of incorporation.



Environmental Regulation



Because we own and operate real property, we are subject to
federal, state and local environmental laws. Potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties is an inherent risk in property ownership and operation. Under the laws of several states,
contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of the cleanup, which could have priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against the property and thereby impair our ability to foreclose on
that property should the related loan be in default. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be liable for the costs of addressing releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at properties securing mortgage loans held by us.







Other Information



Customer Concentration



No one customer or group of affiliated customers accounts
for 10% or more of the Company’s consolidated revenues.



Employees



We had approximately 14,100 employees as of February 15, 2012. Assurant Solutions has employees in Argentina, Brazil, Italy, Spain
and Mexico that are represented by labor unions and trade organizations. We believe that employee relations are satisfactory.



Sources of Liquidity



For a discussion of the Company’s sources and uses of funds, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.



Taxation



For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations, see Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.



Financial Information about Reportable Business Segments



For financial information regarding reportable business segments of the Company, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.



Available Information



Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, the Statements of Beneficial Ownership of
Securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 for our Directors and Officers and all amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through the
SEC website atwww.sec.gov.These documents are also available free of charge through the Investor Relations page of our website (www.assurant.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. Other information found on
our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.







