Item 1.Business



Legal Organization



Assurant, Inc. (“Assurant” or the
“Company”) is a Delaware corporation, formed in connection with the initial public offering (“IPO”) of its common stock, which began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) on February 5, 2004. Prior to the
IPO, Fortis, Inc., a Nevada corporation, formed Assurant and merged into it on February 4, 2004. The merger was executed in order to redomesticate Fortis, Inc. from Nevada to Delaware and to change its name. As a result of the merger, Assurant
is the successor to the business operations and obligations of Fortis, Inc.



Business Overview



Assurant is a provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and select worldwide markets. Our four operating segments—Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty
Property, Assurant Health, and Assurant Employee Benefits—have partnered with clients who are leaders in their industries and have built leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments in the United States of America
(“U.S.”) and selected international markets. These segments provide debt protection administration; credit insurance; warranties and service contracts; pre-funded funeral insurance; creditor–placed homeowners insurance; manufactured
housing homeowners insurance; individual health and small employer group health insurance; group dental insurance; group disability insurance; and group life insurance.



Assurant’s mission is to be the premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America
and selected international markets. To achieve this mission, we focus on the following areas:



•Building and maintaining a portfolio of diverse, specialty insurance businesses



•Leveraging a set of core capabilities for competitive advantage—managing risk; managing relationships with large distribution partners; and
integrating complex administrative systems



•Managing targeted growth initiatives



•Identifying and adapting to evolving market needs



Building and maintaining a portfolio of diverse, specialty insurance businesses—We currently are
made up of four operating segments, Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health and Assurant Employee Benefits, each focused on serving specific sectors of the insurance market. We believe that the uncorrelated nature of the
risks in our businesses allows us to maintain a greater level of financial stability since our businesses will generally not be affected in the same way by the same economic and operating trends.



Leveraging a set of core capabilities for competitive
advantage—We pursue a strategy of building leading positions in specialized market segments for insurance products and related services in North America as well as selected international markets. These markets are generally complex, have a
relatively limited number of competitors and, we believe, offer long-term growth opportunities. In these markets, we apply our core capabilities to create a competitive advantage—managing risk; managing relationships with large distribution
partners; and integrating complex administrative systems. These core capabilities represent areas of expertise which are evident within each of our businesses. We seek to generate returns that are in the top quartile of the insurance industry by
building on specialized market knowledge, well-established distribution relationships and economies of scale. As a result of our strategy, we are a leader in many of our chosen markets and products.



Managing targeted growth initiatives—Our approach to
mergers, acquisitions and other growth opportunities reflects our prudent and disciplined approach to managing our businesses. Our acquisition process is designed to ensure that any new business will support our business model. We establish
performance goals in our short-term incentive compensation plan for senior management based on growth in targeted areas.







Identifying and adapting to evolving market needs—Assurant’s businesses
adapt to changing market conditions by tailoring product and service offerings to specific client and customer needs. By understanding the dynamics of our core markets, we seek to design innovative products and services that will enable us to
sustain long-term profitable growth and market leading positions.



Competition



Assurant’s
businesses focus on niche segments within broader insurance markets. While we face competition in each of our businesses, we believe that no single competitor competes against us in all of our business lines and the business lines in which we
operate are generally characterized by a limited number of competitors. Competition in our operating segments is based on a number of factors, including quality of service, product features, price, scope of distribution, financial strength ratings
and name recognition. The relative importance of these factors varies by product and market. We compete for customers and distributors with insurance companies and other financial services companies in our various businesses.



The Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property segments
competitors include insurance companies, financial institutions, and, in the case of preneed life insurance, regional insurers. Assurant Health’s main competitors are other health insurance companies, Health Maintenance Organizations
(“HMOs”) and the Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans in states where we write business. Assurant Employee Benefits competitors include other benefit and life insurance companies, dental managed care entities and not-for-profit dental plans.



Segments



For additional information on our segments, see “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations” and Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report.



Assurant Solutions



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2009December 31, 2008Gross written premiums for selected product groupings (1):Domestic credit insurance$526,532$604,101International credit insurance843,225827,457Domestic extended service contracts and warranties (2)1,012,6701,530,284International extended service contracts and warranties (2)462,964477,652Preneed life insurance (face sales)512,366445,313Net earned premiums and other considerations (3)$2,671,041$2,813,407Segment net income$120,052$112,183Equity (4)$1,653,817$1,540,066



(1)Gross written premiums does not necessarily translate to an equal amount of subsequent net earned premium since Assurant Solutions reinsures a portion of its premiums
to third parties and to insurance subsidiaries of its clients.

(2)Extended service contracts include warranty contracts for products such as personal computers, consumer electronics and appliances.

(3)Effective January 1, 2009, new preneed life insurance policies in which death benefit adjustments are determined at the discretion of the Company
are accounted for as universal life contracts. For contracts sold prior to January 1, 2009, these preneed life insurance policies were accounted for and will continue to be accounted for under the limited pay insurance guidance. In accordance
with the universal life insurance guidance, income earned on new preneed life insurance policies is presented within policy fee income net of policyholder benefits. Under the limited pay insurance guidance, the consideration received on preneed
policies is presented separately as net earned premiums, with policyholder benefits expense being shown







separately. The change from reporting certain preneed life insurance policies in accordance with the universal life insurance guidance versus the limited pay insurance guidance is not material to
the statement of operations or balance sheet.

(4)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).



Products and Services



Assurant Solutions targets growth in three key product areas: domestic and international extended service contracts (“ESC”) and
warranties; preneed life insurance; and international credit insurance. In addition, we offer debt protection/debt deferment services through financial institutions.



ESC and Warranties:Through partnerships with leading retailers and original equipment manufacturers, we
underwrite and provide administrative services for extended service contracts and warranties. These contracts provide consumers with coverage on appliances, consumer electronics, personal computers, cellular phones, automobiles and recreational
vehicles, protecting them from certain covered losses. We pay the cost of repairing or replacing customers’ property in the event of damages due to mechanical breakdown, accidental damage, and casualty losses such as theft, fire, and water
damage. Our strategy is to seamlessly provide service to our clients that addresses all aspects of the warranty or extended service contract, including program design and marketing strategy. We provide technologically advanced administration, claims
handling and customer service. We believe that we maintain a differentiated position in the marketplace as a provider of both the required administrative infrastructure and insurance underwriting capabilities.



Preneed Life Insurance:Preneed life insurance allows
individuals to prepay for a funeral in a single payment or in multiple payments over a fixed number of years. The insurance policy proceeds are used to address funeral costs at death. These products are only sold in the U.S. and Canada and are
generally structured as whole life insurance policies in the U.S. and annuity products in Canada.



Effective January 1, 2009, new preneed life insurance policies in which death benefit adjustments are determined at the discretion of
the Company are accounted for as universal life contracts under the universal life insurance guidance provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 944,Financial Services—Insurance.Preneed policies sold prior to January 1, 2009, were accounted for and will continue to be accounted for under the limited pay insurance guidance contained within ASC Topic 944. The difference in
reporting these policies in accordance with the universal life insurance guidance versus the limited pay insurance guidance is not material to the statement of operations or balance sheet.



Under the universal life insurance guidance, income earned on
new preneed life insurance policies is presented within policy fee income net of policyholder benefits. Under the limited pay insurance guidance, the consideration received on preneed policies is presented separately as net earned premiums, with
policyholder benefits expense being shown separately. As previously noted, the effects on net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 were not material.



Credit Insurance:Our credit insurance products offer protection from life events and uncertainties that arise in
purchasing and borrowing transactions. Credit insurance programs generally offer consumers the option to protect a credit card balance or installment loan in the event of death, involuntary unemployment or disability, and are generally available to
all consumers without the underwriting restrictions that apply to term life insurance. For more information see “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Industry.”



Regulatory changes in the U.S. have caused a shift to debt deferment products by financial institutions. The
largest credit card issuing institutions and lenders have migrated from credit insurance towards debt protection programs. Consequently, we have seen a reduction in domestic gross written premiums generated in the credit insurance market which we
expect to continue.







Debt Protection/Debt Deferment:Debt protection/debt deferment is coverage offered by
lenders in conjunction with credit card accounts, installment loans and lines of credit. It waives or defers all or a portion of the monthly payments, monthly interest, or the actual debt for the account holder for a covered event such as death,
disability, unemployment and family leave. It is similar to credit, life, disability and involuntary unemployment insurance but does not require an insurance company to underwrite the program.



We earn fee income by providing administrative services such as
debt deferment and protection service programs for our clients.



Marketing and Distribution



Assurant Solutions focuses on establishing strong, long-term relationships with leading distributors of its products and services. We partner with seven of the top ten largest credit card companies to market our credit insurance and their
debt protection programs, four of the ten largest consumer electronics and appliance retailers (based on combined product sales) and original equipment manufacturers to market our ESC and warranty products.



Several of our distribution agreements are exclusive. Typically
these agreements have terms of one to five years and allow us to integrate our administrative systems with those of our clients.



In addition to the domestic market, we operate in Canada, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), Argentina, Brazil, Puerto Rico, Chile,
Germany, Spain, Italy, Mexico and China. In these markets, we primarily sell ESC and credit insurance products through agreements with financial institutions, retailers and wireless service providers. Although there has been contraction in the
domestic credit insurance market, several international markets are experiencing growth in the credit insurance business. Expertise gained in the domestic credit insurance market has enabled us to extend our administrative infrastructure
internationally. Systems, training, computer hardware and our overall market development approach are customized to fit the particular needs of each targeted international market.



During 2009, Assurant Solutions transferred new contracts sold in Denmark to a new underwriter (IF Group) and
entered into a reinsurance agreement with that underwriter effective April 1, 2009 for the legacy business. This transfer was related to our decision in late 2008 to exit the Denmark market. Administration of all business previously written in
Denmark is now provided by a third party administrator, and we are no longer writing business.



On January 9, 2009, we entered into a strategic relationship to market, administer and underwrite ESC products to Whirlpool Corporation (“Whirlpool”) appliance customers in the U.S. and
Canada. Whirlpool is a leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances. The Company paid $25,000 in cash to acquire this business.



On September 26, 2008, the Company acquired the Warranty Management Group business from GE Consumer & Industrial, a unit of
General Electric Co. (“GE”). The Company paid GE $140,000 in cash for the sale, transfer and conveyance of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities. As part of the acquisition, the Company entered into a new 10-year agreement to
market extended warranties and service contracts on GE-branded major appliances in the U.S.



In a separate transaction, GE paid the Company $115,000 in cash and the Company eliminated deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”) by $106,000 and a receivable from GE of $9,000 in connection with
the termination of the existing strategic alliance. Under the pre-existing relationship, the Company sold extended warranties directly to GE appliance purchasers and through leading retailers and paid commissions to GE. After the acquisition, the
Company assumed full responsibility for operating the extended warranty business it previously co-managed and shared with GE.







On October 1, 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of Signal Holdings LLC
(“Signal”), a leading provider of wireless handset protection programs and repair services. The Company paid $257,400 in cash for the acquisition, transfer and conveyance of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities. Signal services
extended service contracts for 4.2 million wireless subscribers.



Our preneed life insurance policies are marketed in the U.S. and Canada. We have an exclusive distribution partnership with Service Corporation International (“SCI”), the largest provider of
deathcare products and services in North America. We also continue to develop our other growth area: independent business in Canada. We are the sole provider of preneed life insurance for SCI through September 30, 2013. In Canada, we market our
preneed life insurance programs through independent and corporate funeral homes and selected third-party general agents. On July 1, 2007, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Mayflower National Life Insurance Company
(“Mayflower”) from SCI. We subsequently merged Mayflower, a leading provider of preneed insurance products and services, into one of our existing preneed life insurers, American Memorial Life Insurance Company, where we continue to write
all new preneed life insurance business.



On
July 12, 2007, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Swansure Group (“Swansure”), a privately held company in the U.K. Swansure owns D&D Homecare Limited and Adminicle Limited. D&D Homecare Limited designs and
distributes general insurance products, including mortgage payment protection and buildings and contents insurance. Adminicle Limited provides a range of insurance administration and outsourcing services. Assurant Solutions has decided to terminate
the non-Assurant business performed by Adminicle and close the Adminicle facility in Cirencestor. This will be completed in 2010.



In addition, on October 1, 2007, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Centrepoint Insurance Services Limited
(“Centrepoint”), a privately held company in the U.K. Centrepoint is a leading insurance broker of building and contents and mortgage payment protection insurance.



Underwriting and Risk Management



We write a significant portion of our contracts on a retrospective commission basis. This allows us to adjust
commissions based on claims experience. Under these commission arrangements, the compensation of our clients is based upon the actual losses incurred compared to premiums earned after a specified net allowance to us. We believe that these
arrangements align our clients’ interests with ours and help us to better manage risk exposure.



Our extensive experience and risk management expertise in the credit, ESC, and warranty areas, along with our sophisticated claims handling
capabilities allow us to address the complexities of pricing, marketing, training, risk retention and client service that are inherent in our products.



Profits from our preneed life insurance programs are generally earned from interest rate spreads—the difference between the death
benefit growth rates on underlying policies and the investment returns generated on the assets we hold related to those policies. To manage these spreads, we regularly adjust pricing to reflect changes in new money yield.







Assurant Specialty Property



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2009December 31, 2008Net earned premiums and other considerations by major product grouping:Homeowners (creditor-placed and voluntary)$1,369,031$1,471,012Manufactured housing (creditor-placed and voluntary)219,960225,209Other (1)358,538352,017Total$1,947,529$2,048,238Segment net income$405,997$405,203Loss ratio (2)34.1%38.3%Expense ratio (3)41.5%39.0%Combined ratio (4)74.7%76.4%Equity (5)$1,184,798$1,276,603



(1)This primarily includes flood, miscellaneous specialty property and renters insurance products.

(2)The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations.

(3)The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and
other income is not included in the above table)

(4)The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and other
income is not included in the above table)

(5)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).



Products and Services



Assurant Specialty Property’s business strategy is to pursue long-term growth in creditor-placed homeowners insurance and expand its
strategy into other emerging markets with similar characteristics, such as creditor-placed automobile and renters insurance. Assurant Specialty Property also writes other specialty products.



Creditor-placed and voluntary homeowners insurance:The
largest product line within Assurant Specialty Property is homeowners insurance, consisting principally of fire and dwelling hazard insurance offered through our creditor-placed programs. The creditor-placed program provides collateral protection to
our mortgage lending and servicing clients in the event that a homeowner does not maintain insurance on a mortgaged dwelling. The majority of our mortgage lending and servicing clients outsource their insurance processing to us. As part of our
creditor-placed homeowners program we provide to some of our clients on properties that have been foreclosed and are being managed by our clients. This type of insurance is called Real Estate Owned (“REO”) insurance. This market
experienced significant increases in recent years as a result of the housing crisis, but is now moderating.



We use a proprietary insurance-tracking administration system linked with the administrative systems of our clients to continuously monitor
the clients’ mortgage portfolios and verify the existence of insurance on each mortgaged property. We earn fee income for these administration services. In the event that mortgagees do not maintain adequate insurance coverage, we will issue an
insurance certificate on the property on behalf of the creditor under a master policy.



Creditor-placed and voluntary manufactured housing insurance:The next largest product line within Assurant Specialty Property is manufactured housing insurance, offered on a creditor-placed and
voluntary basis. Creditor-placed insurance is issued after an insurance tracking process similar to that described above. The tracking is performed by Assurant Specialty Property utilizing a proprietary insurance tracking administration system, or
by the lenders themselves. A number of manufactured housing retailers in the U.S. use our proprietary premium rating technology to assist them in selling property coverages at the point of sale.







Other insurance:We believe there are opportunities to apply our creditor-placed
business model to other products and services. We have developed products in adjacent and emerging markets, such as the creditor-placed automobile and mandatory insurance rental markets. We also act as an administrator for the U.S. Government under
the voluntary National Flood Insurance Program, for which we earn a fee for collecting premiums and processing claims. The business is 100% reinsured to the Federal Government and we do not assume any underwriting risk with respect to this program.
Separately, we do underwrite a creditor-placed flood insurance program.



Marketing and Distribution



Assurant Specialty Property establishes long-term relationships with leading mortgage lenders and servicers. The majority of our creditor-placed agreements are exclusive. Typically these agreements have terms of three to five years and
allow us to integrate our systems with our clients.



We offer our manufactured housing insurance programs primarily through manufactured housing lenders and retailers, along with independent specialty agents. The independent specialty agents distribute flood products and miscellaneous
specialty property products. Renters insurance is distributed primarily through property management companies.



Underwriting and Risk Management



We maintain a disciplined approach to the management of our product lines. Our creditor-placed homeowners insurance program and certain of our manufactured home products are not underwritten on an
individual policy basis. Contracts with our clients require us to automatically issue these policies when a borrower’s insurance coverage is not maintained. These products are priced to factor in the lack of individual policy underwriting.



We monitor pricing adequacy based on a variety of
factors and adjust pricing as required, subject to regulatory constraints. Since several of our product lines (e.g., homeowners, manufactured home, and other property policies) are exposed to catastrophic risks, we purchase reinsurance coverage to
protect the capital of Assurant Specialty Property and to mitigate earnings volatility. Our reinsurance program generally incorporates a provision to allow the reinstatement of coverage, which provides protection against the risk of multiple
catastrophes in a single year.



Assurant Health



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2009December 31, 2008Net earned premiums and other considerations:Individual markets:Individual medical$1,270,198$1,276,743Short-term medical and student health104,238101,435Subtotal1,374,4361,378,178Small employer group medical505,192573,777Total$1,879,628$1,951,955Segment net (loss) income$(30,220)$120,254Loss ratio (1)75.0%64.5%Expense ratio (2)31.5%30.4%Combined ratio (3)105.0%93.6%Equity (4)$309,206$337,475



(1)The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations.







(2)The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and
other income is not included in the above table)

(3)The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and other
income is not included in the above table)

(4)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).



Product and Services



Assurant Health competes in the individual medical insurance market by offering medical insurance, short-term medical insurance and student
medical plans to individuals and families. Our products are offered with different plan options to meet a broad range of customer needs and levels of affordability. Assurant Health also offers medical insurance to small employer groups.



Individual Medical:Our medical insurance products are
sold to individuals, primarily between the ages of 18 and 64, and their families, who do not have employer-sponsored coverage. We emphasize the sale of individual products through associations and trusts that act as the master policyholder for such
products. Products marketed and sold through associations and trusts offer flexibility in pricing and product design which increase our ability to respond to market changes.



Substantially all of the individual health insurance products we sell are Preferred Provider Organization
(“PPO”) plans, which offer members the ability to select from a wide range of designated health care providers. Coverage is typically available with a variety of co-payment, deductible and coinsurance options, with the total benefit for
covered services limited by certain policy maximums. These products are individually underwritten, taking into account the applicant’s medical history and other factors. The remaining products we sell are indemnity, or fee-for-service, plans
which allow members to select any health care provider for covered services.



Short-term Medical and Student Health:Our short-term medical insurance product is designed for individuals who are between jobs or seeking interim coverage. Coverage is generally provided for
periods of twelve months or less. Student health coverage plans are medical insurance plans sold to full-time college students who are not covered by their parents’ health insurance or are seeking a more comprehensive alternative to a
college-sponsored plan.



Small Employer Group
Medical:Our group medical insurance is primarily sold to small companies with two to fifty employees, although larger employer coverage is available. As of December 31, 2009, our average group size was approximately five employees.
Substantially all of the small employer health insurance products that we sell are PPO products. We also offer HSA and Health Reimbursement Account (“HRA”) options and a variety of ancillary products to meet the needs of small employers
for life insurance, short-term disability insurance and dental insurance.



Marketing and Distribution



Our
health insurance products are principally marketed through a network of independent agents. We also market through a variety of exclusive and non-exclusive national account relationships and direct distribution channels. In addition, we market our
products through NorthStar Marketing, a wholly-owned affiliate that seeks business directly from independent agents. Since 2000, we have had an exclusive national marketing agreement with a major mutual insurance company whose captive agents market
our individual health products. This agreement will expire in September 2018 and allows either company to exit the agreement after September 2013. We also provide many of our products through a well-known association’s administrator through an
agreement that automatically renewed for a two-year term in September 2008. We also have a long-term relationship with a national marketing organization with more than 50 offices. We also sell short-term medical insurance plans through the internet
and market directly to consumers.







Underwriting and Risk Management



Premium rates for our health care plans are based upon our accumulated actuarial data and reflect a variety of
factors including claims experience and member demographics. Prices of individual health insurance coverage also reflect our evaluation of the health conditions of applicants for coverage. Our pricing considers the expected frequency and severity of
claims and the costs of providing insurance coverage, including the cost of administering policy benefits, sales and other administrative costs.



We utilize a broad range of cost containment and care management processes across our various product lines to manage risk and to lower
costs. These include case management, disease management and pharmacy benefits management programs. We retain provider networks through a variety of relationships. These relationships generally include leased networks, such as Private Health Care
Systems, Inc. (“PHCS”), which contract directly with individual health care providers. Pharmacy benefits management is provided by Medco Health Solutions (“Medco”). Through Medco’s advanced technology platforms, Assurant
Health is able to access information about customer utilization patterns on a timely basis to improve its risk management capabilities. In addition, Medco allows us to purchase our pharmacy benefits at competitive prices. Our agreement with Medco
expires June 30, 2010, but will be automatically extended for additional one-year terms unless 6 months prior notice of a party’s intent to terminate is given to the other party. Medco has not provided any notice of termination.



During 2009, Assurant Health experienced
increased policyholder utilization of medical services which led to a deterioration in operating results. Additionally, pending healthcare reform in the U.S. Congress creates uncertainty for the future of this business. Please see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Assurant Health” and “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Industry—Changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth” for further details.



Assurant Employee Benefits



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2009December 31, 2008Net Earned Premiums and Other Considerations:Group dental$425,288$435,115Group disability single premiums for closed blocks (1)—11,447All other group disability434,381459,208Group life192,468205,978Total$1,052,137$1,111,748Segment net income$42,156$70,557Loss ratio (2)72.0%69.8%Expense ratio (3)36.4%35.2%Equity (4)$537,041$503,551



(1)This represents single premiums on closed blocks of group disability business. For closed blocks of business we receive a single, upfront premium and in turn we record
a liability for assumed claim reserves. We then manage the claims using our claim management practices.

(2)The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations.

(3)The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (Fees and
other income is not included in the above table)

(4)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).







Products and Services



We focus our business around the needs of businesses with fewer than 500 employees. We believe that our small group risk
selection expertise, administrative systems, and strong relationships with brokers who work primarily with small businesses give us a competitive advantage versus other carriers.



We offer group disability, dental, life and voluntary products as well as individual dental products. The group
products are offered with funding options ranging from fully employer-paid to fully employee-paid (“voluntary”). In addition, we reinsure disability and life products through our wholly owned subsidiary, Disability Reinsurance Management
Services, Inc. (“DRMS”).



Group
Dental:Dental benefit plans provide funding for necessary or elective dental care. Customers may select a traditional indemnity arrangement, a PPO arrangement, or a prepaid or managed care arrangement. Coverage is subject to deductibles,
coinsurance and annual or lifetime maximums. In a prepaid plan, members must use participating dentists in order to receive benefits.



Success in the group dental business is heavily dependent on a strong provider network. Assurant Employee Benefits owns
and operates Dental Health Alliance, L.L.C., a leading dental PPO network. We also have an agreement with Aetna, extending through 2012, that allows us to utilize Aetna’s Dental Access®network, thus increasing the attractiveness of our products in the marketplace.



Group Disability:Group disability insurance provides partial replacement of lost earnings for insured
employees who become disabled, as defined by their plan provisions. Our products include both short- and long-term disability coverage options. We also reinsure disability policies written by other carriers through our subsidiary.



Group Life:Group term life insurance provided through
the workplace provides benefits in the event of death. We also provide accidental death and dismemberment (“AD&D”) insurance. Insurance consists primarily of renewable term life insurance with the amount of coverage provided being
either a flat amount, a multiple of the employee’s earnings, or a combination of the two. We also reinsure life policies written by other carriers through DRMS.



Marketing and Distribution



Our products and services are distributed through a group sales force located in 34 offices near major metropolitan areas. Our sales
representatives distribute our products and services through independent brokers and employee-benefits advisors. Daily account management is provided through the local sales offices, further supported by regional sales support centers and a home
office customer service department. Compensation to brokers in some cases includes an annual performance incentive, based on volume and retention of business.



DRMS, our wholly owned subsidiary, provides turnkey group disability and life insurance solutions to insurance carriers that want to
supplement their core product offerings. Our services include product development, state insurance regulatory filings, underwriting, claims management, and other functions typically performed by an insurer’s back office. Assurant Employee
Benefits reinsures the risks written by DRMS’ clients, with the clients generally retaining shares ranging from 10% to 60% of the risk.



Underwriting and Risk Management



The pricing of our products is based on the expected cost of benefits, calculated using assumptions for mortality, morbidity, interest,
expenses and persistency, and other underwriting factors. Our block of business is diversified by industry and geographic location, which serves to limit some of the risks associated with changing economic conditions.







Disability claims management focuses on helping claimants return to work through a
supportive network of services that may include physical therapy, vocational rehabilitation, and workplace accommodation. We employ or contract with a staff of doctors, nurses and vocational rehabilitation specialists, and use a broad range of
additional outside medical and vocational experts to assist our claim specialists.



Ratings



Rating organizations periodically review the financial strength of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries. Insurance companies are
assigned financial strength ratings by independent rating agencies based upon factors relevant to policyholders. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Most of our active domestic operating
insurance subsidiaries are rated by the A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”), which maintains a letter scale rating system ranging from “A++” (Superior) to “S” (Suspended). Six of our domestic operating insurance
subsidiaries are also rated by Moody’s Investor Services (“Moody’s”). In addition, seven of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries are rated by Standard & Poor’s Inc., a division of McGraw-Hill Companies,
Inc. (“S&P”).



All of our domestic
operating insurance subsidiaries rated by A.M. Best have financial strength ratings of A (“Excellent”), which is the second highest of ten ratings categories.



The Moody’s financial strength rating for six of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries is
A2 (“Good”), which is the third highest of nine ratings categories.



The S&P financial strength rating for five of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries is A- (“Strong”), which is the third highest of nine ratings categories. Two of our domestic
operating insurance subsidiaries are rated BBB+ (“Adequate”), which is the fourth highest of nine ratings categories.



As a result of their concerns related to pressures on our various businesses due to the economic climate, S&P has placed a negative
outlook on our ratings. We do not expect this outlook to significantly affect our borrowing capacity; however, a significant downgrade in ratings may increase the cost of borrowing for the Company or limit the Company’s access to capital. We
believe that because of recent economic developments that have negatively affected the entire insurance industry, we are more susceptible to ratings downgrades than in prior years. For further information on the risks of ratings downgrades, see
“Item 1A—Risk Factors—A.M. Best, Moody’s and S&P rate the financial strength of our insurance company subsidiaries.”



A.M. Best’s, Moody’s and S&P’s ratings represent an evaluation of an insurer’s financial strength, operating
performance, strategic position and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. These ratings are not applicable to our common stock or debt securities. They are subject to periodic review and may be revised upward, downward or revoked
at the sole discretion of, A.M. Best, Moody’s and S&P.



Employees



We had approximately
15,000 employees as of February 16, 2010. Assurant Solutions has employees in Argentina, Brazil, Italy, Spain and Mexico that are represented by labor unions and trade organizations.



Available Information



Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, the Statements of Beneficial Ownership of
Securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 for our Directors and Officers and all amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through the
SEC website atwww.sec.gov. These documents are also available free of charge through our website atwww.assurant.com.







