Item 1.Business



Assurant, Inc. is a Delaware corporation formed in
connection with the initial public offering (“IPO”) of its common stock, which began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on February 5, 2004. Prior to the IPO, Fortis, Inc., a Nevada corporation, formed Assurant and merged into it
on February 4, 2004.



Assurant is a provider
of specialized insurance products and related services in North America, Latin America, Europe and other select worldwide markets. Our four operating segments – Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health, and Assurant
Employee Benefits – partner with clients who are leaders in their industries and build leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments. These segments provide mobile device protection; debt protection administration;
credit-related insurance; warranties and service contracts; pre-funded funeral insurance; lender-placed homeowners insurance; property preservation services; renters insurance and related products; manufactured housing homeowners insurance;
individual health and small employer group health insurance; group dental insurance; group disability insurance; and group life insurance.



Assurant’s mission is to be the premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America, Latin
America, Europe and other select worldwide markets. To achieve this mission, we focus on the following areas:



Building and managing a portfolio of specialty insurance businesses –Our four operating segments are focused on serving
specific sectors of the insurance market. We continue to develop and add specialty market leadership positions where we can meet unserved consumers’ needs, achieve superior returns, and leverage enterprise resources. We believe that the
diversity of our businesses helps us to maintain financial stability because our businesses will generally not be affected in the same way by the same economic and operating trends.



Leveraging a set of core capabilities for competitive advantage– We pursue a strategy of building
leading positions in specialized market segments for insurance products and related services by applying our core capabilities to create competitive advantages –managing risk; managing relationships with large distribution partners; and
integrating complex administrative systems. These core capabilities represent areas of expertise that are advantages within each of our businesses. We seek to generate attractive returns by building on specialized market knowledge,
well-established distribution relationships and, in some businesses, economies of scale.



Identifying and adapting to evolving market needs –Assurant’s businesses strive to adapt to changing market conditions by tailoring product and service offerings to specific client and
customer needs. By understanding consumer dynamics in our core markets, we seek to design innovative products and services that will enable us to sustain long-term profitable growth and market leading positions.



Strategic capital deployment –We deploy capital
through a combination of investments in our businesses, share repurchases and dividends. Our approach to mergers, acquisitions and other growth opportunities reflects our prudent and disciplined approach to managing our capital. Our mergers,
acquisitions and business development process targets new business that complements or supports our existing business model.







Competition



Assurant’s businesses focus on niche products and related services within broader insurance markets. Although we face competition in
each of our businesses, we believe that no single competitor competes against us in all of our business lines. The business lines in which we operate are generally characterized by a limited number of competitors. Competition in each business is
based on a number of factors, including quality of service, product features, price, scope of distribution, financial strength ratings and name recognition. The relative importance of these factors varies by product and market. We compete for
customers and distributors with insurance companies and other financial services companies in our businesses.



Competitors of Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property include insurance companies and financial institutions. Assurant
Health’s main competitors are other health insurance companies, Health Maintenance Organizations (“HMOs”) and the Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans in states where we write business. Assurant Employee Benefits’ competitors include
other benefit and life insurance companies, dental managed care entities and not-for-profit dental plans.



Segments



For additional information on our segments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Results of Operations” and Note
21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report.



Assurant Solutions



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2013December 31, 2012Net earned premiums for selected product groupings:Domestic extended service contracts and warranties (1)$1,372,314$1,260,578International extended service contracts and warranties (1)685,039556,207Preneed life insurance66,52380,978Domestic credit insurance166,417165,765International credit insurance380,683425,078Other112,78290,614Total$2,783,758$2,579,220Fees and other income$400,370$314,072Segment net income$125,152$123,753Combined ratio (2):Domestic97.9%98.9%International102.8%104.8%Equity (3)$1,447,306$1,335,819



(1)Extended service contracts include warranty contracts for products such as mobile devices, personal computers, consumer electronics, appliances, automobiles and
recreational vehicles.

(2)The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and fees and other income excluding the preneed business.

(3)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income.



Products and Services



Assurant Solutions targets profitable growth in three key product areas: domestic and international extended service contracts
(“ESCs”) and warranties, including mobile device protection; preneed life insurance; and international credit insurance.







ESC and Warranties:Through partnerships with leading retailers, mobile carriers and
original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), we underwrite and provide administrative services for ESCs and warranties. These contracts provide consumers with coverage on mobile devices, personal computers, consumer electronics, appliances,
automobiles and recreational vehicles, protecting them from certain covered losses. We pay the cost of repairing or replacing customers’ property in the event of mechanical breakdown, accidental damage, and casualty losses such as theft, fire,
and water damage. Our strategy is to provide service to our clients that addresses all aspects of the ESC or warranty, including program design and marketing strategy. We provide administration, claims handling, logistics, and customer service. We
believe that we maintain a differentiated position in this marketplace as a provider of both the required administrative infrastructure and insurance underwriting capabilities.



Preneed Life Insurance:Preneed life insurance allows
individuals to prepay for a funeral in a single payment or in multiple payments over a fixed number of years. The insurance policy proceeds are used to address funeral costs at death. These products are only sold in the U.S. and Canada and are
generally structured as whole life insurance policies in the U.S. and annuity products in Canada.



Credit Insurance:Our credit insurance products offer protection from life events and uncertainties that arise in purchasing and borrowing transactions. Credit insurance programs generally offer
consumers the option to protect a credit card or installment loan balance or payments in the event of death, involuntary unemployment or disability, and are generally available to all consumers without the underwriting restrictions that apply to
term life insurance.



Regulatory changes have
reduced the demand for credit insurance sold through banks in the U.S. Consequently, we continue to experience a reduction in credit insurance domestic gross written premiums, a trend we expect to continue.



Marketing and Distribution



Assurant Solutions focuses on establishing strong, long-term
relationships with leading distributors of its products and services. We partner with some of the largest consumer electronics and appliance retailers and OEMs to market our ESC and warranty products. In our mobile business, we partner with leading
mobile service providers and market our mobile protection services through them. In our preneed life insurance business, we have an exclusive relationship with Services Corporation International (“SCI”), the largest funeral provider in
North America.



Several of our distribution
agreements are exclusive. Typically these agreements have terms of one to five years and allow us to integrate our administrative systems with those of our clients.



In addition to the domestic market, we operate in Canada, the
United Kingdom (“U.K.”), Ireland, Argentina, Brazil, Puerto Rico, Chile, Germany, Spain, Italy, Mexico, China, Colombia, Peru and Ecuador. In these markets, we primarily sell consumer service contracts, including mobile device protection,
and credit insurance products through agreements with financial institutions, retailers and mobile service providers. Systems, training, computer hardware and our overall market development approach are customized to fit the particular needs of each
targeted international market.



In October 2013,
we acquired Lifestyle Services Group (“LSG”), a mobile phone insurance provider based in the U.K. We believe that this acquisition will allow us to develop our European business into a mobile platform. In addition, we recently announced an
investment in Ike Asistencia (“Iké”), a services assistance business with significant business in Mexico and other countries in Latin America. Iké primarily provides roadside assistance, home assistance, travel, mobile and
other protection products. We expect this investment to allow us to expand our customer base and strengthen our presence in Latin America.







Underwriting and Risk Management



We write a significant portion of our contracts on a retrospective commission basis. This allows us to adjust
commissions based on claims experience. Under these commission arrangements, the compensation of our clients is based upon the actual losses incurred compared to premiums earned after a specified net allowance to us. We believe that these
arrangements better align our clients’ interests with ours and help us to better manage risk exposure.



Profits from our preneed life insurance programs are generally earned from interest rate spreads – the difference between the death
benefit growth rates on underlying policies and the investment returns generated on the assets we hold related to those policies. To manage these spreads, we regularly adjust pricing to reflect changes in new money yields.



Assurant Specialty Property



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2013December 31, 2012Net earned premiums by major product grouping:Homeowners (lender-placed and voluntary)$1,678,172$1,418,061Manufactured housing (lender-placed and voluntary)226,058207,675Other (1)475,814428,305Total$2,380,044$2,054,041Fees and other income$133,135$98,621Segment net income$423,586$304,951Loss ratio (2)37.4%46.2%Expense ratio (3)42.5%39.2%Combined ratio (4)77.9%83.3%Equity (5)$1,303,579$1,202,576



(1)Other primarily includes multi-family housing, lender-placed flood, and miscellaneous insurance products.

(2)The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums.

(3)The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and fees and other income.

(4)The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and fees and other income.

(5)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income.



Products and Services



Assurant Specialty Property targets profitable growth in lender-placed homeowners insurance, and adjacent niches with similar
characteristics, such as multi-family housing insurance, lender-placed flood insurance and property preservation services. Our property preservation service provides inspections and repairs that help preserve the value of homes in the portfolios of
our mortgage lender and servicer clients.



Lender-placed and voluntary homeowners insurance:The largest product line within Assurant Specialty Property is homeowners
insurance, consisting principally of fire and dwelling hazard insurance offered through our lender-placed program. The lender-placed program provides collateral protection to lenders, mortgage servicers and investors in mortgaged properties in the
event that a homeowner does not maintain insurance on a mortgaged dwelling. Lender-placed insurance coverage is not limited to the outstanding loan balance; it provides structural coverage, similar to that of a standard homeowners policy. The amount
of coverage is based on the last known insurance coverage under the prior policy for the property, and provides replacement cost coverage on the







property and thus ensures that a home can be repaired or rebuilt in the event of damage. It protects both the lender’s interest and the borrower’s interest and equity. We also provide
insurance on foreclosed properties managed by our clients. This type of insurance is Real Estate Owned (“REO”) insurance. This market experienced significant growth in prior years as a result of the housing crisis, but has stabilized.



In the majority of cases, we use a proprietary
insurance-tracking administration system linked with the administrative systems of our clients to monitor the clients’ mortgage portfolios to verify the existence of insurance on each mortgaged property and identify those that are uninsured. If
there is a potential lapse in insurance coverage, we begin a process of notification and outreach to both the homeowner and the last-known insurance carrier or agent through phone calls and written correspondence. This process takes up to 90 days to
complete. If coverage cannot be verified at the end of this process, the lender procures a lender-placed policy for which the homeowner is responsible for paying the related premiums. The percentage of insurance policies placed to loans tracked
represents our placement rates. The homeowner is still encouraged, and always maintains the option, to obtain or renew the insurance of his or her choice.



To meet the changing needs of the lending and housing industries, Assurant Specialty Property has worked with regulators to introduce a
next generation lender-placed homeowners product to address some of the unanticipated issues that developed during the housing crisis. This product combines flexibility and best practices to address the concerns of various parties. The product
contains expanded geographic ratings within each state to further differentiate rates for properties more exposed to catastrophes from those where the risk is lower, added premium rating flexibility from deductible options that can be modified based
on factors such as coverage amount and delinquency status, and continued enhancements to our already extensive customer notification process to make it more clear to borrowers when they have lender-placed insurance.



Lender-placed and voluntary manufactured housing
insurance:Manufactured housing insurance is offered on a lender-placed and voluntary basis. Lender-placed insurance is issued after an insurance tracking process similar to that described above. The tracking is performed by Assurant Specialty
Property using a proprietary insurance tracking administration system, or by the lenders themselves. A number of manufactured housing retailers in the U.S. use our proprietary premium rating technology to assist them in selling property coverage at
the point of sale.



Other insurance:We
believe there are opportunities to apply our specialty insurance expertise to other products and services. We have developed products and services in adjacent and emerging markets, such as lender-placed flood insurance, multi-family housing
insurance and property preservation services. In September 2013, we acquired Field Asset Services (“FAS”), a company that provides property preservation, restoration and inspection services. We believe this acquisition will allow us to
strengthen and diversify our property business. We also act as an administrator for the U.S. Government under the voluntary National Flood Insurance Program, for which we earn a fee for collecting premiums and processing claims. This business is
100% reinsured to the U.S. Government.



Marketing and
Distribution



Assurant Specialty Property
establishes long-term relationships with leading mortgage lenders and servicers. The majority of our lender-placed agreements are exclusive. Typically, these agreements have terms of three to five years and allow us to integrate our systems with
those of our clients.



We offer our manufactured
housing insurance programs primarily through manufactured housing lenders and retailers, along with independent specialty agents. The independent specialty agents distribute flood products and miscellaneous specialty property products. Multi-family
housing products are distributed primarily through property management companies and affinity marketing partners.







Underwriting and Risk Management



Our lender-placed homeowners insurance program and certain of our manufactured housing products are not
underwritten on an individual policy basis. Contracts with our clients require us to issue these policies automatically when a borrower’s insurance coverage is not maintained. These products are priced to factor in the additional underwriting
risk from ensuring all client properties are provided continuous insurance coverage. We monitor pricing adequacy based on a variety of factors and adjust pricing as required, subject to regulatory constraints.



Because several of our product lines (such as homeowners,
manufactured housing, and other property policies) are exposed to catastrophe risks, we purchase reinsurance coverage to protect the capital of Assurant Specialty Property and to mitigate earnings volatility. Our reinsurance program generally
incorporates a provision to allow the reinstatement of coverage, which provides protection against the risk of multiple catastrophes in a single year.



Assurant Health



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2013December 31, 2012Net earned premiums:Individual$1,174,141$1,178,878Small employer group407,266410,581Total$1,581,407$1,589,459Fees and other income$29,132$30,518Segment net income$5,857$52,000Loss ratio (1)73.9%73.9%Expense ratio (2)27.0%26.0%Combined ratio (3)99.6%98.5%Equity (4)$295,206$304,166



(1)The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums.

(2)The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and fees and other income.

(3)The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and fees and other income.

(4)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income.



Products and Services



Assurant Health competes in the individual medical insurance market by offering major medical insurance, short-term medical insurance, and
limited benefit coverages to individuals and families. Our products are offered with different plan options to meet a broad range of customer needs, levels of affordability and to meet the requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, and the rules and regulations thereunder (together, the “Affordable Care Act”). Assurant Health also offers medical insurance to small employer groups.



The Affordable Care Act was signed into law in March 2010 and
has caused sweeping and fundamental changes to the U.S. health care system and the health insurance industry. The legislation requires that most individuals obtain health insurance coverage. It authorizes the establishment of federal and state
exchanges for the purchase of individual insurance policies and sets minimum standards for the benefits provided by insurance policies. It also imposes significant requirements on insurance companies, including the elimination of







underwriting and preexisting condition exclusions for individual policies, the establishment of minimum loss ratio thresholds, limitations on the tax deductibility of certain expenses, and a
number of new fees, some of which are not tax deductible.



Although the dynamics and characteristics of the health insurance market have changed under the Affordable Care Act, we believe there are still significant opportunities for growth in the individual
insurance market and that Assurant Health will be able to earn attractive returns over the long-term. To achieve this goal, we have reduced general operating costs significantly and expanded our product portfolio to include certain supplemental and
affordable choice products. The reduced general operating costs were offset by higher expenses associated with increased first year sales of individual and small employer group major medical policies in 2013. Our new 2014 individual and small
employer group medical products, which include all of the essential health benefits required under the Affordable Care Act, are approved and ready for sale in 41 states. We elected not to participate on public health exchanges in 2013. Instead, we
focused on helping customers and agents understand how the changes would affect them and provided options to meet their individual needs. We may elect to participate on the public health exchanges in future years.



Individual Medical:Our medical insurance products are
sold to individuals, primarily between the ages of 18 and 64, and their families, who do not have employer-sponsored coverage. We offer a wide variety of benefit plans at different price points, which allow customers to tailor their coverage to fit
their unique needs. These plans include those with the essential health benefits required under the Affordable Care Act, as well as supplemental and affordable choice products.



Small Employer Group Medical:Our group medical
insurance is primarily sold to small companies with two to fifty employees, although larger employer coverage is available. We offer fully insured products with the essential health benefits required by the Affordable Care Act, as well as
self-funded employer options and individual products sold through the workplace.



In March 2012, we entered into a new provider network arrangement with Aetna Signature Administrators®(“Aetna”). This multi-year agreement provides our major medical customers with access to more than one
million health care providers and 7,500 hospitals nationwide. Access to this network has enhanced the competitiveness of Assurant Health for individuals, families, and small groups.



Marketing and Distribution



Our health insurance products are principally marketed through a network of independent agents. We also market through a variety of
exclusive and non-exclusive national account relationships and direct distribution channels. Since 2000, we have had an exclusive national marketing agreement with a major mutual insurance company whose captive agents market our individual health
products. This agreement expires in September 2018 and allows either company to exit the agreement with six months’ notice. We provide many of our products through a well-known association’s administrator under an agreement that
automatically renews annually.



Underwriting and Risk
Management



Following the passage of the
Affordable Care Act, many of the traditional risk management techniques used to manage the risks of providing health insurance have become less relevant. Assurant Health has taken steps to adjust its products, pricing and business practices to
comply with the new requirements.



Please see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Assurant Health” and “Risk Factors – Risks Related to our Industry – Reform of the health insurance industry could materially reduce the profitability of certain of our
businesses or render them unprofitable” for further details.







Assurant Employee Benefits



For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2013December 31, 2012Net Earned Premiums:Group disability$403,286$409,757Group dental383,223394,413Group life192,392188,246Group supplemental and vision products35,68621,848Total$1,014,587$1,014,264Voluntary$393,969$368,576Employer-paid and other620,618645,688Total$1,014,587$1,014,264Fees and other Income$23,434$28,468Segment net income$34,553$58,059Loss ratio (1)70.5%68.3%Expense ratio (2)37.4%37.4%Equity (3)$545,049$578,757



(1)The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums.

(2)The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and fees and other income.

(3)Equity excludes accumulated other comprehensive income.



Products and Services



Assurant Employee Benefits offers group disability, dental, life, vision and supplemental products as well as individual dental products.
The group products are offered with funding options ranging from fully employer-paid to fully employee-paid (voluntary). In addition, we reinsure disability and life products through our wholly owned subsidiary, Disability Reinsurance Management
Services, Inc. (“DRMS”).



We focus on
the needs of the small to mid-size employer. We believe that our group risk selection expertise, ease of enrollment and administration, our broad product suite, expansive dental network and strong relationships with brokers who work primarily with
small to mid-size businesses give us a competitive advantage versus other carriers in this market.



Group Disability: Group disability insurance provides partial replacement of lost earnings for insured employees who become disabled, as defined by their plan provisions. Our products include both
short- and long-term disability coverage options. We also reinsure disability policies written by other carriers through our DRMS subsidiary.



Group Dental:Dental benefit plans provide funding for necessary or elective dental care. Customers may select a traditional
indemnity arrangement, a PPO arrangement, or a prepaid or managed care arrangement. Coverage is subject to deductibles, coinsurance and annual or lifetime maximums. In a prepaid plan, members must use participating dentists in order to receive
benefits.



Success in the
group dental business is heavily dependent on a strong provider network. Assurant Employee Benefits owns and operates Dental Health Alliance, L.L.C. (“DHA”), a leading dental Preferred Provider Organization (“PPO”) network.
Agreements with Aetna and United Concordia Dental allow us to use Aetna’s Dental Access®network and
United Concordia’s Advantage Plus network, respectively. We believe these







network agreements, in conjunction with our DHA network, increases the attractiveness of our products in the marketplace and the overall size and strength of the Assurant Employee Benefits dental
offering.



Group Life:Group term life
insurance provided through the workplace provides benefits in the event of death. We also provide accidental death and dismemberment insurance. Insurance consists primarily of renewable term life insurance with the amount of coverage provided being
either a flat amount, a multiple of the employee’s earnings, or a combination of the two. We also reinsure life policies written by other carriers through DRMS.



Group Supplemental and Vision Products:Fully-insured
vision coverage is offered through our agreement with Vision Service Plan, Inc., a leading national supplier of vision insurance. Our plans cover eye exams, glasses, and contact lenses and are usually sold in combination with one or more of our
other products. In addition to the traditional voluntary products, we provide group critical illness, cancer, accident, and gap insurance. These products are generally paid for by the employee through payroll deductions, and the employee is enrolled
in the coverage(s) at the worksite.



Marketing and Distribution



Our products and services are distributed
through a group sales force located in 32 offices near major metropolitan areas. Our sales representatives distribute our products and services through independent brokers and employee-benefits advisors. Daily account management is provided through
local sales offices, further supported by regional sales support centers and a home office customer service department. Broker compensation in some cases includes an annual performance incentive, based on volume and retention of business.



DRMS provides turnkey group disability and life
insurance solutions to insurance carriers that want to supplement their core product offerings. Our services include product development, state insurance regulatory filings, underwriting, claims management, and other functions typically performed by
an insurer’s back office. Assurant Employee Benefits reinsures the risks written by DRMS’ clients, with the clients generally retaining shares that vary by contract.



Underwriting and Risk Management



The pricing of our products is based on the expected cost of
benefits, calculated using assumptions for mortality, morbidity, interest, expenses and persistency, and other underwriting factors. Our block of business is diversified by industry and geographic location, which serves to limit some of the risks
associated with changing economic conditions.



Disability claims management focuses on helping claimants return to work through a supportive network of services that may include
physical therapy, vocational rehabilitation, and workplace accommodation. We employ or contract with a staff of doctors, nurses and vocational rehabilitation specialists, and use a broad range of additional outside medical and vocational experts to
assist our claim specialists.



Ratings



Independent rating organizations periodically review the
financial strength of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries. Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the ability of an insurance company to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and
contractholders. These ratings are not applicable to our common stock or debt securities. Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies.







Rating agencies also use an “outlook statement” of “positive,”
“stable,” “negative” or “developing” to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a rating change. A rating may have a stable outlook to indicate that the rating is
not expected to change; however, a stable rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice.



Most of our active domestic operating insurance subsidiaries are rated by the A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”). In addition, six
of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries are also rated by Moody’s Investor Services (“Moody’s”) and seven are rated by Standard & Poor’s Inc., a division of McGraw Hill Companies, Inc.
(“S&P”).



For further information on
the risks of ratings downgrades, see “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Risks Related to our Company – A.M. Best, Moody’s and S&P rate the financial strength of our insurance company subsidiaries, and a decline in these
ratings could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.”



The following table summarizes our financial strength ratings and outlook of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2013:



A.M. Best (1)Moody’s (2)Standard &Poor’sOutlookStable(4)StableCompanyAmerican Bankers Insurance CompanyAA2AAmerican Bankers Life Assurance CompanyA-A3AAmerican Memorial Life Insurance CompanyA-N/AAAmerican Reliable Insurance CompanyAN/AN/AAmerican Security Insurance CompanyAA2AAssurant Life of CanadaA-N/AN/ACaribbean American Life Assurance CompanyA-N/AN/ACaribbean American Property Insurance CompanyAN/AN/AJohn Alden Life Insurance CompanyA-Baa1BBBReliable LloydsAN/AN/AStandard Guaranty Insurance CompanyAN/AN/ATime Insurance CompanyA-Baa1BBBUDC Dental CaliforniaA-N/AN/AUnion Security Dental Care New JerseyA-N/AN/AUnion Security Insurance CompanyA-A3A-Union Security Life Insurance Company of New YorkA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of ArizonaA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of ColoradoA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of MichiganNRN/AN/AUnited Dental Care of MissouriA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of New MexicoA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of OhioNRN/AN/AUnited Dental Care of TexasA-N/AN/AUnited Dental Care of UtahNRN/AN/AVoyager Indemnity Insurance CompanyAN/AN/A



(1)A.M. Best financial strength ratings range from “A++” (superior) to “S” (suspended). Ratings of A and A-fall under the “excellent”
category, which is the second highest of ten ratings categories.

(2)Moody’s insurance financial strength ratings range from “Aaa” (exceptional) to “C” (extremely poor). A numeric modifier may be
appended to ratings from “Aa” to “Caa” to indicate relative position within a







category, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. Ratings of A2 and A3 are considered “good” and fall within the third highest of the nine ratings categories.

(3)S&P’s insurer financial strength ratings range from “AAA” (extremely strong) to “R” (under regulatory supervision). A “+” or
“-” may be appended to ratings from categories AA to CCC to indicate relative position within a category. Ratings of A- (strong) and BBB+ (adequate) are within the third and fourth highest of the nine ratings categories, respectively.

(4)Moody’s has a stable outlook on all of the ratings of the above entities, except for John Alden Life Insurance Company and Time Insurance Company, which have a
negative outlook.



Enterprise Risk Management



As an insurer, we are exposed to a wide variety of
financial, operational and other risks, as described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Enterprise risk management (“ERM”) is, therefore, a key component of our business strategies, policies, and procedures. Our ERM process is an
iterative approach with the following key phases:



1.Risk identification;

2.High-level estimation of risk likelihood and severity;

3.Risk prioritization at the business and enterprise levels;

4.Scenario analysis and detailed modeling of likelihood and severity for key enterprise risks;

5.Utilization of quantitative results and subject matter expert opinion to help guide business strategy and decision making.



Through our ERM process and our enterprise risk
quantification model we monitor a variety of risk metrics on an ongoing basis, with a particular focus on impact to net income (both GAAP and Statutory), company value and the potential need for capital infusions to subsidiaries under severe stress
scenarios.



The Company’s ERM activities are
coordinated by an Enterprise Risk Management Committee (“ERMC”), which includes managers from across the Company with knowledge of the Company’s business activities, including representation from the Legal, Compliance, Actuarial,
Audit, Finance, and Asset Management Departments. The ERMC develops risk assessment and risk management policies and procedures. It facilitates the identification, reporting and prioritizing of risks faced by the Company, and is responsible for
promoting a risk-aware culture throughout the organization. The ERMC also coordinates with each of the Company’s four Business Unit Risk Committees (“BURCs”), which meet regularly and are responsible for the identification of
significant risks affecting their respective business units. Those risks which meet our internally-defined escalation criteria, including emerging risks, are then reported to the ERMC.



Our Board of Directors and senior management are responsible for overseeing significant enterprise risks. The
ERMC reports regularly to the Chief Executive Officer and presents its work periodically to both the Board of Directors and the Finance and Investment Committee.



Through the use of regular committee meetings, business unit
and enterprise risk inventory templates, business unit monthly risk reports, an enterprise risk dashboard, hypothetical scenario analysis, and quantitative modeling, the Company strives to identify, track, quantify, communicate and manage our key
risks within prescribed tolerances.



Our ERM
process continues to evolve, and, when appropriate, we incorporate methodology changes, policy modifications and emerging best practices on an ongoing basis.



Regulation



The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and international regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions where it does
business. Regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The following is a







summary of significant regulations that apply to our businesses and is not intended to be a comprehensive review of every regulation to which the Company is subject. For information on the risks
associated with regulations applicable to the Company, please see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”



U.S. Insurance Regulation



We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance companies are domiciled. These laws generally require insurance companies within the insurance holding company system
to register with the insurance departments of their respective states of domicile and to furnish reports to such insurance departments regarding capital structure, ownership, financial condition, general business operations and intercompany
transactions. These laws also require that transactions between affiliated companies be fair and equitable. In addition, certain intercompany transactions, changes of control, certain dividend payments and transfers of assets between the companies
within the holding company system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory authorities.



Like all U.S. insurance companies, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they
do business. In general, this regulation is designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of shareholders and other investors. To that end, the laws of the various states and other jurisdictions establish
insurance departments with broad powers with respect to such things as:



•licensing and authorizing companies and intermediaries (including agents and brokers) to transact business;



•regulating capital, surplus and dividend requirements;



•regulating underwriting limitations including imposing minimum loss ratio requirements;



•regulating companies’ ability to enter and exit markets or to provide, terminate or cancel certain coverages;



•imposing statutory accounting and annual statement disclosure requirements;



•regulating product types and approving policy forms and mandating certain insurance benefits;



•regulating premium rates, including the ability to disapprove or reduce the premium rates companies may charge;



•imposing fines, penalties or other expenses;



•regulating claims practices, including the ability to require companies to pay claims on terms other than those mandated by underlying policy
contracts;



•regulating certain transactions between affiliates;



•regulating the form and content of disclosures to consumers;



•regulating the type, amounts and valuation of investments;



•mandating annual tests to analyze adequacy of reserves;



•mandating assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds and the ability to recover such assessments in the future through premium increases; and



•regulating market conduct and sales practices of insurers and agents.



Dividend Payment Limitations.Our holding company’s assets consist primarily of the capital stock
of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our holding company’s future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends and to make







such other payments is regulated by the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled. These dividend regulations vary from state to state and by type of insurance provided by the applicable
subsidiary, but generally require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends these subsidiaries can pay to the holding company. For more information, please see Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Regulatory Requirements.”



Risk Based Capital Requirements.In order to enhance
the regulation of insurer solvency, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has established certain risk-based capital standards applicable to life, health and property and casualty insurers. Risk-based capital, which
regulators use to assess the sufficiency of an insurer’s statutory capital, is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium, expense, liability and reserve items. Factors are higher for items which in the NAIC’s view have
greater underlying risk. The NAIC periodically reviews the risk-based capital formula and changes to the formula could occur in the future.



Investment Regulation.Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations that prescribe the kind,
quality and concentration of investments. These regulations require diversification of insurance company investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories.



Financial Reporting.Regulators closely monitor the financial condition of licensed insurance companies
and our insurance subsidiaries are required to file periodic financial reports with insurance regulators. Moreover, states regulate the form and content of these statutory financial statements.



Products and Coverage.Insurance regulators have broad
authority to regulate many aspects of our products and services. For example, some jurisdictions require insurers to provide coverage to persons who would not be considered eligible insurance risks under standard underwriting criteria, dictating the
types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such applicants. Additionally, certain non-insurance products and services, such as service contracts, may be regulated by regulatory bodies other than departments of insurance.



Pricing and Premium Rates.Nearly all
states have insurance laws requiring insurers to file price schedules and policy forms with the state’s regulatory authority. In many cases, these price schedules and/or policy forms must be approved prior to use, and state insurance
departments have the power to disapprove increases or require decreases in the premium rates we charge.



Market Conduct Regulation.Activities of insurers are highly regulated by state insurance laws and regulations, which govern the
form and content of disclosure to consumers, advertising, sales practices and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities enforce compliance through periodic market conduct examinations.



Guaranty Associations and Indemnity Funds.Most states require insurance companies to support guaranty
associations or indemnity funds, which are established to pay claims on behalf of insolvent insurance companies. These associations may levy assessments on member insurers. In some states member insurers can recover a portion of these assessments
through premium tax offsets and/or policyholder surcharges.



Insurance Regulatory Initiatives.The NAIC, state regulators and professional organizations have considered and are considering various proposals that may alter or increase state authority to
regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Please see Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Our Industry – Changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth” for a discussion of
the risks related to such initiatives.







Federal Regulation



Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.



Employee Retirement Income Security Act.Because we provide products and services for certain U.S. employee benefit plans, we are
subject to regulation under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”). ERISA places certain requirements on how the Company may do business with employers that maintain employee benefit plans covered by
ERISA. Among other things, regulations under ERISA set standards for certain notice and disclosure requirements and for claim processing and appeals. In addition, some of our administrative services and other activities may also be subject to
regulation under ERISA.



HIPAA, HITECH Act and
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, along with its implementing regulations (“HIPAA”), impose various requirements on health insurers, HMOs, health plans and health care providers.
Among other things, Assurant Health and Assurant Employee Benefits are subject to HIPAA regulations requiring certain guaranteed issuance and renewability of health insurance coverage for individuals and small groups (generally groups with 50 or
fewer employees) and limitations on exclusions based on pre-existing conditions. HIPAA also imposes administrative simplification requirements for electronic transactions.



HIPAA also imposes requirements on health insurers, health
plans and health care providers to ensure the privacy and security of protected health information. These privacy and security provisions were further expanded by the privacy provisions contained in the Health Information Technology for Economic and
Clinical Health Act (the “HITECH Act”) and its accompanying Omnibus Rule enacted in January 2013, which enhances penalties for violations of HIPAA and requires regulated entities to provide notice of security breaches of protected health
information to individuals and HHS. In addition, certain of our activities are subject to the privacy regulations of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which, along with regulations adopted thereunder, generally requires insurers to provide customers with
notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used, and to provide them with the opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures, if applicable.



Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In July 2010, President Obama signed into law
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which implements comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the U.S. Among other things, Congress created the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”). While the CFPB does not have direct jurisdiction over insurance products, it is possible that regulations promulgated by the CFPB may extend its authority more broadly to cover these products and thereby
affect the Company or our clients.







In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the Department
of the Treasury, headed by a director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with respect to
insurance. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, this director has recently completed a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the U.S. Among other things, the study explores the possibility of increased federal
regulation to achieve national uniformity, and the prospect of increased cooperation of the states to achieve this objective.



International Regulation



We are subject to regulation and supervision of our international operations in various jurisdictions. These regulations, which vary
depending on the jurisdiction, include anti-corruption laws; solvency and market conduct regulations; various privacy, insurance, tax, tariff and trade laws and regulations; and corporate, employment, intellectual property and investment laws and
regulations.



In addition to the U.S., the Company
operates in Canada, the U.K., Ireland, Argentina, Brazil, Puerto Rico, Chile, Germany, Spain, Italy, Mexico and China and our businesses are supervised by local regulatory authorities of these jurisdictions. We also have business activities in Peru,
Ecuador and Colombia where we have gained access to these markets by registering certain entities to act as reinsurers.



Our operations in the U.K., for example, are currently subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation
Authority. Authorized insurers are generally permitted to operate throughout the rest of the European Union, subject to satisfying certain requirements of these regulatory bodies and meeting additional local regulatory requirements.



We are also subject to certain U.S. and foreign laws
applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”) regulates U.S. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices. In
addition, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, which became effective during 2011, has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the U.K.



Securities and Corporate Governance Regulation



As a company with publicly-traded securities, Assurant is subject to certain legal and regulatory requirements applicable generally to
public companies, including the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) relating to public reporting and disclosure, accounting and financial
reporting, and corporate governance matters. Additionally, Assurant, Inc. is subject to the corporate governance laws of Delaware, its state of incorporation.



Environmental Regulation



Because we own and operate real property, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws. Potential environmental
liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties is an inherent risk in property ownership and operation. Under the laws of several states, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to
secure recovery of the costs of the cleanup, which could have priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against the property and thereby impair our ability to foreclose on that property should the related loan be in default. In addition, under
certain circumstances, we may be liable for the costs of addressing releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at properties securing mortgage loans held by us.







Other Information



Customer Concentration



No one customer or group of affiliated customers accounts
for 10% or more of the Company’s consolidated revenues.



Employees



We had approximately 16,600 employees as of February 14, 2014. Assurant Solutions has employees in Argentina, Brazil, Italy, Spain
and Mexico that are represented by labor unions and trade organizations. We believe that employee relations are satisfactory.



Sources of Liquidity



For a discussion of the Company’s sources and uses of funds, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.



Taxation



For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations, see Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.



Financial Information about Reportable Business Segments



For financial information regarding reportable business segments of the Company, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report.



Available Information



Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, the Statements of Beneficial Ownership of
Securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 for our Directors and Officers and all amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through the
SEC website atwww.sec.gov.These documents are also available free of charge through the Investor Relations page of our website (www.assurant.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. Other information found on
our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.







