Item 1.  Business.

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to
(i) “Home & Security,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, after giving effect to the spin-off
of Home & Security from Fortune Brands, Inc. and (ii) “Former Parent” refer to Fortune Brands, Inc.

Separation

On September 27, 2011, the board of directors of our Former Parent approved the spin-off of Home & Security into an independent,
publicly-traded company (the “Separation”). The Separation was accomplished by increasing the total number of issued and outstanding shares of Home & Security common stock such that 155,052,629 shares of Home & Security
common stock were available for distribution to the holders of common stock of our Former Parent. The Separation was accomplished pursuant to a Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated September 27, 2011, between our Former Parent and the
Company. On October 3, 2011, the Separation was completed, with the stockholders of our Former Parent receiving one share of Home & Security common stock for each share of Former Parent common stock held as of 6:00 p.m. New York City
Time on September 20, 2011. In addition, we paid a dividend of $548.9 million to our Former Parent prior to the Separation on October 3, 2011 and made a payment of $6.0 million to our Former Parent on January 3, 2012. Following the
Separation, our Former Parent changed its name to Beam Inc. and retained no ownership interest in Home & Security. Home & Security and Beam Inc. now have separate public ownership, boards of directors and management.

Our Company

We are a leading home and security products
company that competes in attractive long-term growth markets in our categories. With a foundation of market-leading brands and lean and flexible supply chains as well as strong product innovation and customer service, we are focused on outperforming
our markets in both growth and returns, and driving increased shareholder value. We sell our products through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented toward builders or professional remodelers,
industrial and locksmith distributors, and “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail outlets.

Our Strategy

Build on leading business and brand positions in attractive growth and return categories.We believe that we
have leading market positions and brands in many of our product categories. We are continuing to invest in targeted advertising and other strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing brand awareness and educating consumers regarding the breadth,
features and benefits of certain product lines. We also strive to leverage our brands to expand into adjacent product categories.

Continue to
develop innovative products for customers, designers, installers and consumers.Sustained investments in consumer-driven product innovation and customer service, along with our lower cost structures, have contributed
to our success in winning significant new business in the marketplace and creating consumer demand. MasterBrand Cabinets launched innovative new door designs, color palettes and features in a range of styles that allows consumers to create a custom
kitchen look at an affordable price. We have emerged as an industry leader in promoting energy efficiency and “green” products. Moen has introduced an extensive line of







eco-friendly faucets and showerheads that carry the EPA’s WaterSense designation. Moen’s track record of continued innovation includes offerings such as a market-leading Spot Resist
finish. Therma-Tru and Simonton are leveraging advanced materials to deliver products that combine aesthetic beauty and energy efficiency. In 2011, Therma-Tru introduced a new line of smooth fiberglass doors. Master Lock has long been an innovative
leader in security products, such as the easy-to-use Speed Dial™ combination padlock, and continues to grow by entering adjacent security categories such as door hardware, commercial safety and electronic security products.

Expand in international markets.We have opportunities to expand sales by further penetrating international markets, which
represented approximately 17% of net sales in 2011. For example, Moen is expanding in China, India and South America. Kitchen Craft is a strong and growing cabinetry brand in Canada. Master Lock is expanding its presence in Europe and China, while
Therma-Tru is making inroads in Canada as consumers transition from traditional entry door materials to more advanced and energy-efficient fiberglass doors. In 2011, the percentage of sales derived from markets outside the U.S. was more than 25% for
Moen and Master Lock.

Leverage our global supply chains.We are using lean manufacturing, design-to-manufacture
and distributive assembly techniques to make our supply chains more flexible and improve supply chain quality, cost, response times and asset efficiency. We view our supply chains as a strategic asset not only to support strong operating leverage
when volumes recover, but also to enable the profitable growth of new products, adjacent market expansion and international growth.

Enhance
returns and deploy our cash flow to high-return opportunities.We believe our most attractive opportunities are to invest in profitable organic growth initiatives. In addition, we may invest in add-on acquisitions that
leverage our existing brands and infrastructure, and we may undertake share repurchases. Both add-on acquisitions and share repurchase opportunities may be particularly attractive in the next few years given the uncertain and uneven pace of recovery
in our end markets. We expect that our Board of Directors will periodically evaluate establishing a dividend and/or share repurchase program.

Our
Competitive Strengths

We believe our competitive strengths include the following:

Leading brands.We have leading brands in many of our product categories. We believe that established brands are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers in their
respective categories and that we have the opportunity to, among other things, expand many of our brands into adjacent product categories and international markets.

Strategic focus on attractive consumer-facing categories.We believe we operate in categories that, while very competitive, are among the more attractive categories in the home
products and security products industries. Some of the key characteristics that make these categories attractive in our view include the following:



>product quality, innovation, fashion, finish, durability and functionality, which are key determinants of product selection in addition to price;



>established brands, which are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers;



>the opportunity to add value to a complex consumer purchasing decision with excellent service propositions, reliability of products, ease of installation and superior delivery
lead times;



>the value our products add to a home, particularly with kitchen and bath remodeling and additions, the curb appeal offered by stylish entry door systems and the energy efficiency
benefits of advanced materials windows and doors;







>favorable long-term trends that benefit the outlook for our markets over time;



>the relatively stable demand for security products; and



>with respect to security, the opportunity to expand into adjacent categories.

Supply chain flexibility and lean cost structure.During the housing downturn, which began in 2006, we reduced the number of our manufacturing facilities and employees by
approximately 40%, and we restructured our supply chains, while maintaining substantial supply chain flexibility and brand investment. As a result, we believe we have positioned the Company well to absorb additional volume and drive strong growth in
sales, profits and cash flows as the U.S. housing market recovers from recessionary levels and demand improves. We believe our investments in lean manufacturing and productivity initiatives have resulted in supply chain flexibility and the ability
to cost-effectively match demand levels that may be uneven. In addition, our supply chains and lower cost structures are creating favorable operating leverage as volumes return without sacrificing customer service levels or lead times. We believe
that margin improvement will be driven predominantly by volume expansion that can be readily accommodated by additional production shifts and equipment as necessary.

Commitment to innovation.Sustained investments in innovation and customer service, along with our lower cost structures, have contributed to our success in winning new
business. MasterBrand Cabinets launched innovative new door designs, color palettes and features in a range of styles that allows consumers to create a custom kitchen look at an affordable price. We have also emerged as an industry leader in
promoting energy efficiency and “green” products. Moen has introduced an extensive line of eco-friendly faucets and showerheads that carry the EPA’s WaterSense designation. Moen’s track record of continued innovation also
includes offerings such as a market-leading Spot Resist finish. Therma-Tru and Simonton are leveraging advanced materials to deliver products that combine aesthetic beauty and energy efficiency. Master Lock has long been an innovative leader in
security products and continues to grow by entering adjacent security categories such as door hardware, commercial safety and electronic security products.

Diverse sales end-use mix.We sell products in a variety of categories in the U.S. home products market. In addition, our exposure to changing levels of U.S. residential new
home construction activity is counteracted by more stable repair-and-remodel activity, which comprises a substantial majority of the overall U.S. home products market. We also benefit from a stable market for security and storage products and
international sales growth opportunities.

Diverse sales channels.We sell to a wide array of sales channels,
including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented to builders or professional remodelers and “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers. We also sell security products to locksmiths, industrial distributors and mass
merchants. We are able to leverage existing sales channels to expand into adjacent product categories. In 2011, sales to our top ten customers represented less than half of total sales.

Decentralized business model.Our business segments are focused on distinct product categories and are responsible for their own performance. This structure enables each of our
segments to independently best position itself within each category in which it competes and reinforces strong accountability for operational and financial performance. Each of our segments focuses on its unique set of consumers, customers,
competitors and suppliers, while also sharing best practices.







Business Segments

We have four business segments: Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry, Plumbing & Accessories, Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems, and Security & Storage. The following table contains
key information regarding each of these segments, including what we believe are our leadership positions:



Segment2011Revenue(in millions)Percentage ofTotal 2011RevenueLeadership PositionKey BrandsKitchen & Bath Cabinetry$1,25638%#1 Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry manufacturer in North AmericaAristokraft, Omega, Kitchen Craft, Schrock, Diamond, HomeCrest, Decorá, Kemper, Thomasville(a)and Martha Stewart Living(a)Plumbing & Accessories$96329%#1 faucet brand in North America and a leader in ChinaMoen, Cleveland Faucet Group (CFG)Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems$55316%#1 fiberglass residential entry door brand in the U.S. and a leader in vinyl windowsTherma-Tru, Simonton, FyponSecurity & Storage$55717%#1 in padlocks in North America and a leader in broader access control markets in North America and EuropeMaster Lock, American Lock, WaterlooTotal$3,329100%



(a)Thomasville Cabinetry is a registered trademark of Thomasville Home Furnishings, Inc. a subsidiary of Furniture Industries, Inc., and Martha Stewart Living is a
registered trademark of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc.

Our segments compete on the basis of innovation, fashion, quality,
price, service and responsiveness to distributor, retailer and installer needs, as well as end-user consumer preferences. Our markets are very competitive. Approximately 17% of 2011 net sales were to international markets, and sales to two of the
Company’s customers, The Home Depot and Lowe’s, each accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2011. Sales to all U.S. home centers in the aggregate were approximately 30% of net sales in 2011.

Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry.Our Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry segment manufactures custom, semi-custom and stock
cabinetry for the kitchen, bath and other parts of the home. We sell a portfolio of brands that enables our customers to differentiate themselves against competitors. This portfolio includes brand names such as Aristokraft, Omega, Kitchen Craft,
Schrock, Diamond, HomeCrest, Decorá, Kemper, Thomasville and Martha Stewart Living. Substantially all of this segment’s sales are in North America. We sell directly to kitchen and bath dealers, home centers, wholesalers and large
builders. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 34% of net sales of the Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry segment in 2011. Our competitors include Masco and American Woodmark, as well as a large number of small suppliers.







Plumbing & Accessories.Our Plumbing & Accessories segment
manufactures or assembles faucets, accessories and kitchen sinks in North America, China and India, predominantly under the Moen brand. Although we sell Plumbing & Accessories products principally in the U.S. and Canada, we also sell them
in China, India, Mexico, South America and Southeast Asia. We sell directly through our own sales force and indirectly through independent manufacturers’ representatives, primarily to wholesalers, home centers, mass merchandisers and industrial
distributors. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 31% of net sales of the Plumbing & Accessories segment in 2011. Our chief competitors include Delta (owned by Masco), Kohler, Pfister (owned by Stanley
Black & Decker), American Standard and imported private-label brands.

Advanced Material Windows & Door
Systems.Our Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems segment manufactures fiberglass and steel entry door systems, vinyl-framed window and patio doors, and urethane millwork product lines. This segment
benefits from the long-term trend away from traditional materials, such as wood, steel and aluminum, toward more energy-efficient and durable synthetic materials. Therma-Tru products include fiberglass and steel residential entry door and patio door
systems, primarily for sale in the U.S. and Canada. Simonton Windows is a leading national brand of vinyl-framed windows and patio doors. Simonton products are mainly manufactured and sold in the U.S. This segment’s principal customers are home
centers, millwork building products and wholesale distributors, and specialty dealers that provide products to the residential new construction market, as well as to the remodeling and renovation markets. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s
comprised approximately 20% of net sales of the Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems segment in 2011. Our competitors include Masonite, JELD-WEN and Plastpro, Silverline (owned by Andersen Windows), Atrium and Milgard (owned by
Masco).

Security & Storage.Our Security & Storage segment consists of locks, safety and
security devices, and electronic security products manufactured, sourced and distributed by Master Lock and tool storage and garage organization products manufactured by Waterloo. This segment sells products principally in the U.S., Canada, Europe,
Australia and Central America. Master Lock manufactures and sells key-controlled and combination padlocks, bicycle and cable locks, built-in locker locks, door hardware, automotive, trailer and towing locks, and other specialty safety and security
devices. Master Lock sells products designed for consumer use to hardware and other retail outlets, wholesale distributors and home centers, and Master Lock sells lock systems to industrial and institutional users, original equipment manufacturers
and retail outlets. Master Lock competes with Abus, W.H. Brady, Hampton, Kwikset, Schlage, Assa Abloy and various imports.

Waterloo manufactures tool
storage and garage organization products, principally high-quality steel toolboxes, tool chests, workbenches and related products. Waterloo primarily sells to Sears retail stores for resale under the Craftsman brand owned by Sears Brands, LLC. In
addition, Waterloo sells under the Waterloo and private-label brand names to specialty industrial and automotive dealers, mass merchandisers, home centers and hardware stores. Waterloo competes with Snap-On, Kennedy, Stanley Black & Decker,
Stack-On and others in the metal storage segment and with Stanley Black & Decker, Keter, Newell Rubbermaid and others in the plastic hand box category.

Annual revenues for each of the last three fiscal years for each of our business segments were as follows:



(In millions)201120102009Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry$1,256.3$1,188.8$1,125.7Plumbing & Accessories962.8923.8835.0Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems552.9600.7550.8Security & Storage556.6520.2495.3Total$3,328.6$3,233.5$3,006.8







For additional financial information for each of our business segments, refer to Note 17, “Information on
Business Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Other Information

Raw materials.The table below indicates the principal raw materials used by each of our segments. These
materials are available from a number of sources. Volatility in the prices of commodities and energy used in making and distributing our products impacts the cost of manufacturing our products.



SegmentRaw MaterialsKitchen & Bath CabinetryHardwoods (maple, cherry and oak), plywood and particleboardPlumbing & AccessoriesBrass, zinc, copper, nickel and resinsAdvanced Material Windows & Door SystemsResins, steel and glassSecurity & StorageRolled steel, brass, zinc, and aluminum

Intellectual property.Product innovation and branding are important to the success of our
business. In addition to the brand protection offered by our trademarks, patent protection helps distinguish our unique product features in the market by preventing copying and making it more difficult for competitors to benefit unfairly from
our design innovation. We hold U.S. and foreign patents covering various features used in products sold within all of our business segments. Although each of our segments relies on a number of patents and patent groups that, in the aggregate,
provide important protections to the Company, no patent or patent group is material to any of the Company’s segments.

Employees.As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 16,100 employees. Approximately 11% of these employees are
covered by collective bargaining agreements, none of which are subject to agreements that will expire within one year. Employee relations are generally good.

Information about geographic areas.For additional information, refer to Note 17, “Information on Business Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Seasonality.All of our operating segments traditionally
experience lower sales in the first quarter of the year when new home construction, repair-and-remodel activity and security and storage buying are lowest. As a result of sales seasonality and associated timing of working capital fluctuations, our
cash flow from operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the year.

Environmental matters.We
are involved in remediation activities to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs of each site are based on our best estimate of undiscounted future costs, excluding possible insurance
recoveries or recoveries from other third parties. Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop estimates of environmental remediation exposures. Some of the
potential liabilities relate to sites we own, and some relate to sites we no longer own or never owned. Several of our subsidiaries have been designated as potentially responsible parties (“PRP”) under “Superfund” or similar
state laws. As of December 31, 2011, eight instances have not been dismissed, settled or otherwise resolved. In most instances where our subsidiaries are named as a PRP, we enter into cost-sharing arrangements with other PRPs. We give
notice to insurance carriers of potential PRP liability, but very rarely, if ever, receive reimbursement







from insurance for PRP costs. We believe that the cost of complying with the present environmental protection laws, before considering estimated recoveries either from other PRPs or insurance,
will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had accruals of $7.9 million and $8.2 million, respectively, relating to environmental compliance
and clean up including, but not limited to, the above mentioned Superfund sites.

Legal proceedings.We are
defendants in lawsuits associated with the normal conduct of our businesses and operations. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending actions and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of these actions could be decided
unfavorably to us. We believe that there are meritorious defenses to these actions and that these actions will not have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, and, where appropriate, these
actions are being vigorously contested.

Legal structure.

Available
Information.The Company’s website address is www.FBHS.com. The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to
these reports are available free of charge on the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). These documents
also are made available to read and copy at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the Public Reference Room by contacting the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov. We also make available on our website, or in printed form upon request, free of charge, our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code
of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Charters for the Committees of our Board of Directors and certain other information related to the Company.

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain “forward-looking statements” made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial
performance and other matters. Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “projects,” “estimates,”
“plans” and similar expressions or future or







conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would,” “may” and “could” are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. Where,
in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations at the time this report is filed with the SEC or, with respect to any
documents incorporated by reference, available at the time such document was prepared. Although we believe that these statements are based on reasonable assumptions, they are subject to numerous factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those indicated in such statements. These factors include those listed in the section below entitled “Risk Factors.” Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to
update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events, new information or changes to future results over time or otherwise.

