Item 1. Business.

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

10-K

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form10-Kto
“Fortune Brands,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Our Company

We are a leading home and security products
company that competes in attractive long-term growth markets in our product categories. With a foundation of market-leading brands across a diversified mix of channels, and lean and flexible supply chains, as well as a tradition of strong product
innovation and customer service, we are focused on outperforming our markets in both growth and returns, and driving increased shareholder value. We have four business segments: Cabinets, Plumbing, Doors and Security. We sell our products through a
wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented toward builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors,“do-it-yourself”remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail outlets. We believe the Company’s impressive track record reflects the long-term
attractiveness and potential of our categories and our leading brands. Our performance in the six years since becoming an independent publicly traded company demonstrates the strength of our operating model and our ability to generate profitable
growth as sales volume increases and we leverage our structural competitive advantages to gain share in our categories.

Our Strategy

Build on leading business and brand positions in attractive growth and return categories.    We believe that we have leading
market positions and brands in many of our product categories. We continue to invest in targeted advertising and other strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing brand awareness and educating consumers regarding the breadth, features and benefits of
our product lines. For example, in the third quarter of 2017, Moen launched its new “Innovated By…” advertising campaign which brings Moen innovation to life through compelling narratives designed to evoke emotion







and provoke thought. We also strive to leverage our brands by expanding into adjacent product categories and continue to develop new programs by working closely with our customers.

Continue to develop innovative products for customers, designers, installers and consumers

Therma-Tru

on-trend

Expand in international markets.    We expect to have opportunities to expand sales by further penetrating international markets, which represented approximately 15% of net sales
in 2017. We continue to develop our relationship with dealers and distributors and their Moen branded stores throughout China. In our Cabinets segment, Kitchen Craft remained a leading cabinetry brand in Canada, while WoodCrafters provided a company
presence in Mexico. Master Lock continued to expand its presence in Europe and Asia (primarily Japan), whileTherma-Trumade inroads in Canada as consumers transitioned from traditional entry door materials to
more advanced and energy-efficient fiberglass doors.

Leverage our global supply chains.    We are using lean
manufacturing,design-to-manufactureand distributive assembly techniques to make our supply chains more flexible and improve supply chain quality, cost, response times
and asset efficiency. We view our supply chains as a strategic asset not only to support strong operating leverage as volumes increase, but also to enable the profitable growth of new products, adjacent market expansion and international growth.

Enhance returns and deploy our cash flow to high-return opportunities.    We continue to believe our most attractive
opportunities are to invest in profitable organic growth initiatives, pursue accretive strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, and return cash to stockholders through a combination of dividends and repurchases of shares of our common stock under
our share repurchase program. Bothadd-onacquisitions and share repurchase opportunities may be particularly attractive in the next few years. In 2017, we repurchased 3.4 million shares of our
outstanding common stock under the Company’s share repurchase programs for $214.8 million. In July 2017, we acquired Shaws, aUK-basedluxury plumbing products company that specializes in
manufacturing and selling fireclay sinks. In October 2017, we acquired Victoria +Albert, aUK-basedpremium brand of standalone bathtubs, sink, tub fillers, faucets and other accessories. These acquisitions
broadened our plumbing portfolio and enhanced future growth opportunities.







Our Competitive Strengths

We believe our competitive strengths include the following:

Leading brands.    We
have leading brands in many of our product categories. We believe that established brands are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers in their respective categories and that we have the opportunity to, among other things, continue to expand
many of our brands into adjacent product categories and international markets.

Strategic focus on attractive consumer-facing
categories.We believe we operate in categories that, while very competitive, are among the more attractive categories in the home products and security products markets. Some of the key characteristics that
make these categories attractive in our view include the following:



>product quality, innovation, fashion, finish, durability and functionality, which are key determinants of product selection in addition to price;



>established brands, which are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers;



>the opportunity to add value to a complex consumer purchasing decision with excellent service propositions, reliability of products, ease of installation and
superior delivery lead times;



>the value our products add to a home, particularly with kitchen and bath remodeling and additions, and the curb appeal offered by stylish entry door systems;



>favorable long-term trends in household formations that benefit the outlook for our markets over time;



>the relatively stable demand for plumbing and security products; and



>the opportunity to expand into adjacent categories.

Operational excellence.    We believe our investments in lean manufacturing and productivity initiatives have resulted in supply chain flexibility and the ability to
cost-effectively add or reduce capacity in order to match demand levels. In 2017, we invested approximately $40 million to support long-term growth potential both in the U.S. and international markets. In addition, our supply chains and low
cost manufacturing structures have created favorable operating leverage allowing volumes to grow without sacrificing customer service levels. We believe that margin improvement will continue to be driven predominantly by organic volume growth that
can be readily accommodated by additional production shifts and equipment as necessary.

Commitment to
innovation.    We have a long track record of successful product and process innovations that introduce valued new products and services to our customers and consumers. We are committed to continuing to invest in new
product development and enhance customer service to strengthen our leading brands and penetrate adjacent markets.

Diverse salesend-usemix.    We sell in a variety of product categories in the U.S. home and security products markets. In addition, our exposure to changing levels of U.S. residential new home
construction activity is balanced withrepair-and-remodelactivity, which comprised a substantial majority of the overall U.S. home products market and abouttwo-thirdsof our U.S. home products sales in 2017. We also benefit from a stable market for plumbing and security products and international sales growth opportunities.

Diverse sales channels.    We sell through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers
oriented to builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors,“do-it-yourself”remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail
outlets. We also sell security products to locksmiths, industrial distributors and mass merchants. We are able to leverage these existing sales channels to expand into adjacent product categories. In 2017, sales to our top ten customers represented
less than half of total sales.







Decentralized business model.    Our business segments are focused on distinct
product categories and are responsible for their own performance. This structure enables each of our segments to independently best position itself within each category in which it competes and reinforces strong accountability for operational and
financial performance. Each of our segments focuses on its unique set of consumers, customers, competitors and suppliers, while also sharing best practices.

Strong capital structure.    We exited 2017 with a strong balance sheet. In 2017, we repurchased 3.4 million of our shares. As of December 31, 2017, we had
$323.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and total debt was $1,507.6 million, resulting in a net debt position of $1,184.6 million. In addition, we had $635.0 million available under our credit facility as of December 31,
2017.

Business Segments

We have four business
segments: Cabinets, Plumbing, Doors and Security. The following table shows net sales for each of these segments and key brands within each segment:



Segment2017Net Sales(in millions)Percentage ofTotal 2017Net SalesKey BrandsCabinets$2,467.147%Aristokraft, Diamond,Mid-Continent,Kitchen Craft, Schrock, Homecrest, Omega, Thomasville(a), Kemper, StarMark, UltracraftPlumbing1,720.833%Moen, ROHL, Riobel, Perrin & Rowe, Victoria + Albert, Shaws, Waste KingDoors502.99%Therma-Tru,FyponSecurity592.511%Master Lock, American Lock, SentrySafeTotal$5,283.3100%



(a)Thomasville is a registered trademark of Hhg Global Designs LLC.

Our segments compete on the basis of innovation, fashion, quality, price, service and responsiveness to distributor, retailer and installer needs, as well asend-userconsumer preferences. Our markets are very competitive. Approximately 15% of 2017 net sales were to international markets, and sales to two of the Company’s customers, The Home Depot, Inc. (“The Home Depot”) and Lowe’s Companies,
Inc. (“Lowe’s”), each accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2017. Sales to all U.S. home centers in the aggregate were approximately 27% of net sales in 2017.

Cabinets.Our Cabinets segment manufactures custom, semi-custom and stock cabinetry, as well as vanities, for the kitchen,
bath and other parts of the home through a regional supply chain footprint to deliver high quality and service to our customers. This segment sells a portfolio of brands that enables our customers to differentiate themselves against competitors.
This portfolio includes brand names such as Aristokraft, Diamond,Mid-Continent,Kitchen Craft, Schrock, Homecrest, Omega, Thomasville, Kemper, StarMark and Ultracraft. Substantially all of this segment’s
sales are in North America. This segment sells directly to kitchen and bath dealers, home centers, wholesalers and large builders. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 34% of net sales of the Cabinets segment
in 2017. This segment’s competitors include Masco, American Woodmark and RSI (owned by American Woodmark), as well as a large number of regional and local suppliers.

Plumbing.Our Plumbing segment manufactures or assembles and sells faucets, accessories, kitchen sinks and waste disposals in North America and China, predominantly under the
Moen, ROHL, Riobel, Perrin & Rowe, Victoria + Albert, Shaws and Waste King brands. Although this segment sells products principally in the U.S., Canada and China, this segment also sells in Mexico, Southeast Asia, Europe and







South America. Approximately 26% of 2017 net sales were to international markets. This segment sells directly through its own sales force and indirectly through independent manufacturers’
representatives, primarily to wholesalers, home centers, mass merchandisers and industrial distributors. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 23% of net sales of the Plumbing segment in 2017. This
segment’s chief competitors include Delta (owned by Masco), Kohler, Pfister (owned by Spectrum Brands), American Standard (owned by LIXIL Group), InSinkErator (owned by Emerson Electronic Company) and imported private-label brands.

Doors.Our Doors segment manufactures and sells fiberglass and steel entry door systems under theTherma-Trubrand and urethane millwork product lines under the Fypon brand. This segment benefits from the long-term trend away from traditional materials, such as wood, steel and aluminum, toward more
energy-efficient and durable synthetic materials.Therma-Truproducts include fiberglass and steel residential entry door and patio door systems, primarily for sale in the U.S. and Canada. This segment’s
principal customers are home centers, millwork building products and wholesale distributors, and specialty dealers that provide products to the residential new construction market, as well as to the remodeling and renovation markets. In aggregate,
sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 14% of net sales of the Doors segment in 2017. This segment’s competitors include Masonite,JELD-WEN,Plastpro and Pella.

Security.Our Security segment’s products consist of locks, safety and security devices, and electronic security products
manufactured, sourced and distributed primarily under the Master Lock brand and fire resistant safes, security containers and commercial cabinets manufactured, sourced and distributed under the SentrySafe brand. This segment sells products
principally in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Central America, Japan and Australia. Approximately 25% of 2017 net sales were to international markets. This segment manufactures and sellskey-controlledand
combination padlocks, bicycle and cable locks,built-inlocker locks, door hardware, automotive, trailer and towing locks, electronic access control solutions, and other specialty safety and security devices
for consumer use to hardware, home center and other retail outlets. In addition, the segment sells lock systems and fire resistant safes to locksmiths, industrial and institutional users, and original equipment manufacturers. In aggregate, sales to
The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 18% of the net sales of the Security segment in 2017. Master Lock competes with Abus, W.H. Brady, Hampton, Kwikset (owned by Spectrum Brands), Schlage (owned by Allegion), Assa Abloy and various
imports, and SentrySafe competes with First Alert, Magnum, Fortress,Stack-Onand Fire King.

Annual net sales
for each of the last three fiscal years for each of our business segments were as follows:



(In millions)201720162015Cabinets$2,467.1$2,397.8$2,173.4Plumbing1,720.81,534.41,414.5Doors502.9473.0439.1Security592.5579.7552.4Total$5,283.3$4,984.9$4,579.4

For additional financial information for each of our business segments, refer to Note 18, “Information on Business
Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.

Other
Information

Raw materials.The table below indicates the principal raw materials used by each of our segments.
These materials are available from a number of sources. Volatility in the prices of commodities and energy used in making and distributing our products impacts the cost of manufacturing our products.







SegmentRaw MaterialsCabinetsHardwoods (maple, cherry and oak), plywood and particleboardPlumbingBrass, zinc, resins, stainless steel, aluminum and copperDoorsResins, wood, glass, foam, aluminum and steelSecurityRolled steel, zinc, brass and resins

Intellectual property.Product innovation and branding are important to the success of our
business. In addition to the brand protection offered by our trademarks, patent protection helps distinguish our unique product features in the market by preventing copying and making it more difficult for competitors to benefit unfairly from
our design innovation. We hold U.S. and foreign patents covering various features used in products sold within all of our business segments. Although each of our segments relies on a number of patents and patent groups that, in the aggregate,
provide important protections to the Company, no single patent or patent group is material to any of the Company’s segments.

Employees.As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 23,800 full-time employees. Of these employees, approximately
2,000 of these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employee relations are generally good.

Information about geographic
areas.For additional information about net sales and assets by geographic areas, refer to Note 18, “Information on Business Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form10-K.

Seasonality.All of our operating segments
traditionally experience lower sales in the first quarter of the year when new home construction,repair-and-remodelactivity and security buying are at their lowest. As
a result of sales seasonality and associated timing of working capital fluctuations, our cash flow from operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the year.

Environmental matters.

Legal
structure.Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. is a holding company that was initially organized as a Delaware corporation in 1988. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company include MasterBrand
Cabinets, Inc., Moen Incorporated, Fortune Brands Global Plumbing Group LLC, Fortune Brands Doors, Inc. and Fortune Brands Storage & Security LLC. As a holding company, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our
subsidiaries. Accordingly, the rights of the Company, and thus the rights of our creditors (including holders of debt securities and other obligations) and stockholders to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary
is subject to the claims of creditors







of the subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of the Company itself as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized, in which event the Company’s claims may in certain circumstances
be subordinate to certain claims of others. In addition, as a holding company, the source of our unconsolidated revenues and funds is dividends and other payments from subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are not limited by long-term debt or other
agreements in their abilities to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions with respect to their capital stock or other payments to the Company.

Available Information.The Company’s website address is www.FBHS.com. The Company’s annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly
reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on the Company’s website as soon
as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. These documents also are made available to read and copy at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the Public Reference Room by contacting the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov. We also make available on our website, or in printed form upon request, free of charge, our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code
of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Charters for the Committees of our Board of Directors and certain other information related to the Company.

