Item 1. Business.

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

10-K

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form10-Kto “Fortune Brands,” the “Company,” “we,” “our”
or “us” refer to Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Our Company

We are a leading home and security products company that competes in attractive long-term growth markets in our product categories. With a foundation of
market-leading brands across a diversified mix of channels, and lean and flexible supply chains, as well as a tradition of strong product innovation and customer service, we are focused on outperforming our markets in both growth and returns, and
driving increased shareholder value. We have three business segments: Cabinets, Plumbing, and Doors & Security. We sell our products through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented toward
builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors,“do-it-yourself”remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail outlets. We
believe the Company’s impressive track record reflects the long-term attractiveness and potential of our categories and our leading brands. Despite increased pressures driven in part by tariffs, higher interest rates and inflation, our
performance demonstrates the strength of our operating model and our ability to generate profitable growth as sales volume increases and we leverage our structural competitive advantages to gain share in our categories.

Our Strategy

Build on leading business and brand
positions in attractive growth and return categories.    We believe that we have leading market positions and brands in many of our product categories. In 2018, we expanded into the outdoor living market by acquiring
Fiber Composites LLC (“Fiberon”), a leading U.S. manufacturer of outdoor performance materials used in decking, railing and fencing products. The acquisition of Fiberon provides category expansion and product extension opportunities into
the outdoor living space for our Doors & Security segment. We continue to invest in targeted advertising and other strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing brand awareness and educating







consumers regarding the breadth, features and benefits of our product lines. For example, in the third quarter of 2018, Moen launched its new “Who designs for water” advertising and
brand campaign showcasing its appreciation for Earth’s most crucial resource, while inspiring consumers to look at water from a renewed viewpoint. We also strive to leverage our brands by expanding into adjacent product categories and continue
to develop new programs by working closely with our customers.

Continue to develop innovative products for
customers, designers, installers and consumers

Therma-Tru

on-trend

®

Expand in international markets.    We expect to have opportunities to expand sales by further penetrating international markets, which represented approximately 16% of net sales
in 2018. We continue to develop our relationship with dealers and distributors and their Moen-branded stores throughout China. In our Cabinets segment, Kitchen Craft remained a leading cabinetry brand in Canada, while WoodCrafters provided a company
presence in Mexico. Within our Doors & Security segment, Master Lock continued to expand its presence in Europe and Asia, whileTherma-Trumade inroads in Canada as consumers transitioned from
traditional entry door materials to more advanced and energy-efficient fiberglass doors.

Leverage our global supply
chains.    We are using lean manufacturing,design-to-manufactureand distributive assembly techniques to make our supply chains more
flexible and improve supply chain quality, cost, response times and asset efficiency. We view our global supply chains and manufacturing presence as a strategic asset not only to support strong operating leverage as volumes increase, but also to
enable the profitable growth of new products, adjacent market expansion and international growth.

Enhance returns and deploy our cash flow to
high-return opportunities.    We continue to believe our most attractive opportunities are to invest in profitable organic growth initiatives, pursue accretive strategic acquisitions,non-controllingequity investments, and joint ventures, and return cash to stockholders through a combination of dividends and repurchases of shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program. In
2018, we repurchased approximately 12 million shares of our outstanding common stock under the Company’s share repurchase programs for $695 million. In September 2018, we acquired Fiberon providing category expansion and product
extension opportunities into the outdoor living space for our Doors & Security segment.

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe our competitive strengths include the following:

Leading brands.    We have leading brands in many of our product categories. We believe that established brands are meaningful to
both consumers and trade customers in their respective categories







and that we have the opportunity to, among other things, continue to expand many of our brands into adjacent product categories and international markets.

Strategic focus on attractive consumer-facing categories.We believe we operate in categories that, while very
competitive, are among the more attractive categories in the home products and security products markets. Some of the key characteristics that make these categories attractive in our view include the following:



>product quality, innovation, fashion, finish, durability and functionality, which are key determinants of product selection in addition to price;



>established brands, which are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers;



>the opportunity to add value to a complex consumer purchasing decision with excellent service propositions, reliability of products, ease of installation and
superior delivery lead times;



>the value our products add to a home, particularly with kitchen and bath remodeling and additions, the curb appeal offered by stylish entry door systems and the
expanding outdoor living market offered through our decking products;



>favorable long-term trends in household formations that benefit the outlook for our markets over time;



>the relatively stable demand for plumbing and security products; and



>the opportunity to expand into adjacent categories.

Operational excellence.    In 2018, we invested approximately $45 million to support long-term growth potential both in the U.S. and international markets. In addition, our
supply chains and low cost manufacturing structures allow us to adapt to challenging market conditions. We believe that margin improvement will continue to be driven predominantly by organic volume growth that can be readily accommodated by current
production capacity.

Commitment to innovation.    We have a long track record of successful product and process
innovations that introduce valued new products and services to our customers and consumers. We are committed to continuing to invest in new product development and enhance customer service to strengthen our leading brands and penetrate adjacent
markets.

Diverse salesend-usemix.    We sell in a variety of product
categories and sales channels in the U.S. home and security products markets. In addition, our exposure to changing levels of U.S. residential new home construction activity is balanced withrepair-and-remodelactivity, which comprised a substantial majority of the overall U.S. home products market and abouttwo-thirdsof our U.S. home products sales in
2018. We also benefit from a stable market for plumbing and security products and international sales growth opportunities.

Diverse sales
channels.    We sell through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented to builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors,“do-it-yourself”remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail outlets. We also sell security products to locksmiths, industrial distributors and mass merchants.
We are able to leverage these existing sales channels to expand into adjacent product categories. In 2018, sales to our top ten customers represented less than half of total sales.

Decentralized business model.    Our business segments are focused on distinct product categories and are responsible for their own performance. This structure enables each of our
segments to independently best position itself within each category in which it competes and reinforces strong accountability for operational and financial performance. Each of our segments focuses on its unique set of consumers, customers,
competitors and suppliers, while also sharing best practices.







Strong capital structure.    We exited 2018 with a strong balance sheet. In
2018, we repurchased 12.0 million of our shares. As of December 31, 2018, we had $262.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and total debt was $2,334.0 million, resulting in a net debt position of $2,071.1 million. In
addition, we had $930.0 million available under our credit facility as of December 31, 2018.

Business Segments

In July 2018, we publicly announced an internal reorganization to combine our Doors and Security segments under common leadership to drive innovation, accelerate
product development, and enhance investments and business processes for the combined segment. In conjunction with the reorganization, we changed how our chief operating decision maker evaluates and allocates the resources across our businesses. As a
result, beginning in the third quarter of 2018, we have three business segments: Cabinets, Plumbing and Doors & Security. The following table shows net sales for each of these segments and key brands within each segment:



Segment2018Net Sales(in millions)Percentage ofTotal 2018Net SalesKey BrandsCabinets$2,418.644%Diamond, Aristokraft,Mid-Continent,Kitchen Craft, Homecrest, Omega, Ultracraft, StarMark, Schrock, Decora, KemperPlumbing1,883.334%Moen, ROHL, Riobel, Perrin & Rowe, Victoria + Albert, ShawsDoors & Security1,183.222%Master Lock, American Lock, SentrySafe,Therma-Tru,Fypon, FiberonTotal$5,485.1100%

Our segments compete on the basis of innovation, fashion, quality, price, service and responsiveness to distributor, retailer and
installer needs, as well asend-userconsumer preferences. Our markets are very competitive. Approximately 16% of 2018 net sales were to international markets, and sales to two of the Company’s customers,
The Home Depot, Inc. (“The Home Depot”) and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (“Lowe’s”), each accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2018. Sales to all U.S. home centers in the aggregate were approximately
26% of net sales in 2018.

Cabinets.Our Cabinets segment manufactures custom, semi-custom and stock cabinetry, as
well as vanities, for the kitchen, bath and other parts of the home through a regional supply chain footprint to deliver high quality cabinets and service to our customers. This segment sells a portfolio of brands that enables our customers to
differentiate themselves against competitors. This portfolio includes brand names such as Aristokraft, Diamond,Mid-Continent,Kitchen Craft, Schrock, Homecrest, Omega, Thomasville, Kemper, StarMark and
Ultracraft. Substantially all of this segment’s sales are in North America. This segment sells directly to kitchen and bath dealers, home centers, wholesalers and large builders. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised
approximately 36% of net sales of the Cabinets segment in 2018. This segment’s competitors include Masco and American Woodmark, as well as a large number of overseas, regional and local suppliers.

Plumbing.Our Plumbing segment manufactures or assembles and sells faucets, accessories, kitchen sinks and waste disposals,
predominantly under the Moen, ROHL, Riobel, Perrin & Rowe, Victoria + Albert and Shaws brands. Although this segment sells products principally in the U.S., China and Canada, this segment also sells in Mexico, Southeast Asia, Europe and
South America. Approximately 28% of 2018 net sales were to international markets. This segment sells directly through its own sales force and indirectly through independent manufacturers’ representatives, primarily to wholesalers, home centers,
mass merchandisers and industrial distributors. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 23% of net sales of the Plumbing segment in 2018. This segment’s chief competitors include







Masco, Kohler, Spectrum Brands, LIXIL Group, InSinkErator (owned by Emerson Electronic Company) and imported private-label brands.

Doors



& Security.

Therma-Tru

Therma-Tru,

JELD-WEN,

Stack-On.

Annual net sales for each of the last three fiscal years for each of our business segments were as follows:



(In millions)201820172016Cabinets$2,418.6$2,467.1$2,397.8Plumbing1,883.31,720.81,534.4Doors & Security1,183.21,095.41,052.7Total$5,485.1$5,283.3$4,984.9

For additional financial information for each of our business segments, refer to Note 19, “Information on Business
Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form10-K.

Other
Information

Raw materials.The table below indicates the principal raw materials used by each of our segments.
These materials are available from a number of sources. Volatility in the prices of commodities and energy used in making and distributing our products impacts the cost of manufacturing our products.



SegmentRaw MaterialsCabinetsHardwoods (maple, cherry and oak), plywood and particleboardPlumbingBrass, zinc, resins, stainless steel, aluminum and copperDoors & SecuritySteel, resins, glass, wood, aluminum, insulating foam, brass and zinc

Intellectual property.Product innovation and branding are important to the success of our
business. In addition to the brand protection offered by our trademarks, patent protection helps distinguish our unique product features in the market by preventing copying and making it more difficult for competitors to benefit unfairly from
our design innovation. We hold U.S. and foreign patents covering various features used in products sold within all of our business segments. Although each of our segments relies on a number of patents and patent groups that, in the aggregate,
provide important protections to the Company, no single patent or patent group is material to any of the Company’s segments.







Employees.As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 25,300
full-time employees. Approximately 3,200 of these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employee relations are generally good.

Seasonality.All of our operating segments traditionally experience lower sales in the first quarter of the year when new home
construction,repair-and-remodelactivity and security buying are at their lowest. As a result of sales seasonality and associated timing of working capital
fluctuations, our cash flow from operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the year.

Environmental
matters.

Legal structure.Fortune Brands
Home & Security, Inc. is a holding company that was initially organized as a Delaware corporation in 1988. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company include MasterBrand Cabinets, Inc., Fortune Brands Global Plumbing Group LLC, Fortune
Brands Doors, Inc. and Fortune Brands Storage & Security LLC. As a holding company, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. Accordingly, the rights of the Company, and thus the rights of our creditors
(including holders of debt securities and other obligations) and stockholders to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the claims of creditors of the subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of
the Company itself as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized, in which event the Company’s claims may in certain circumstances be subordinate to certain claims of others. In addition, as a holding company, the source of our
unconsolidated revenues and funds is dividends and other payments from subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their abilities to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions with respect to their
capital stock or other payments to the Company.

Available Information.The Company’s website address is
www.FBHS.com. The Company’s annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished electronically with
the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov. We also make available on our website, or in printed form upon request, free of charge, our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Charters for the Committees of our Board of Directors and certain other information related to the Company.

