Item 1.  Business.

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to (i) “Fortune Brands,” the “Company,”
“we,” “our” or “us” refer to Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, after giving effect to the spin-off of Fortune Brands from Fortune Brands, Inc. in 2011 and
(ii) “Former Parent” refer to Fortune Brands, Inc.

Our Company

We are a leading home and security products company that competes in attractive long-term growth markets in our categories. With a foundation of market-leading brands across a diversified mix of channels, and lean
and flexible supply chains, as well as a tradition of strong product innovation and customer service, we are focused on outperforming our markets in both growth and returns, and driving increased shareholder value. We sell our products through a
wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented toward builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors, “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail
outlets. We believe the Company’s track record reflects the long-term attractiveness and potential of our categories and our leading brands. Our performance over the past three years demonstrates the strength of our operating model and our
ability to generate profitable growth as sales volume increases and we leverage our structural competitive advantages to gain share in our categories.

Our Strategy

Build on leading business and brand
positions in attractive growth and return categories.We believe that we have leading market positions and brands in many of our product categories. We continue to invest in targeted advertising and other
strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing brand awareness and educating consumers regarding the breadth, features and benefits of our product lines. We also strive to leverage our brands by expanding into adjacent product categories and continue to
develop new programs through working closely with our customers.







Continue to develop innovative products for customers, designers, installers and
consumers

.

Expand in international
markets.We have opportunities to expand sales by further penetrating international markets, which represented approximately 17% of net sales in 2014. Moen continues to expand in China. In cabinets,
Kitchen Craft remains a leading cabinetry brand in Canada in 2014, while WoodCrafters provides presence in Mexico. Master Lock continues to expand its presence in Europe and Asia, while Therma-Tru has made inroads in Canada as consumers transition
from traditional entry door materials to more advanced and energy-efficient fiberglass doors.

Leverage our global supply
chains.We are using lean manufacturing, design-to-manufacture and distributive assembly techniques to make our supply chains more flexible and improve supply chain quality, cost, response times and asset
efficiency. We view our supply chains as a strategic asset not only to support strong operating leverage as volumes increase, but also to enable the profitable growth of new products, adjacent market expansion and international growth.

Enhance returns and deploy our cash flow to high-return opportunities.We believe our most attractive
opportunities are to invest in profitable organic growth initiatives, pursue accretive strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, and return cash to shareholders through a combination of dividends and repurchases of shares of our common stock under
our share repurchase programs. Both add-on acquisitions and share repurchase opportunities may be particularly attractive in the next few years.

Our
Competitive Strengths

We believe our competitive strengths include the following:

Leading brands.We have leading brands in many of our product categories. We believe that established brands are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers
in their respective categories and that we have the opportunity to, among other things, expand many of our brands into adjacent product categories and international markets.







Strategic focus on attractive consumer-facing categories.We believe we operate
in categories that, while very competitive, are among the more attractive categories in the home products and security products markets. Some of the key characteristics that make these categories attractive in our view include the following:



>product quality, innovation, fashion, finish, durability and functionality, which are key determinants of product selection in addition to price;



>established brands, which are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers;



>the opportunity to add value to a complex consumer purchasing decision with excellent service propositions, reliability of products, ease of installation and
superior delivery lead times;



>the value our products add to a home, particularly with kitchen and bath remodeling and additions, and the curb appeal offered by stylish entry door systems;



>favorable long-term trends in household formations that benefit the outlook for our markets over time;



>the relatively stable demand for plumbing and security products; and



>the opportunity to expand into adjacent categories.

Operational excellence.We believe our investments in lean manufacturing and productivity initiatives have resulted in supply chain flexibility and the ability to
cost-effectively add capacity in order to match demand levels. In 2014, we invested in incremental capacity to support long-term growth potential and we plan to continue investing in 2015. In addition, our supply chains and lower cost structures are
creating favorable operating leverage as volumes grow without sacrificing customer service levels. We believe that margin improvement will continue to be driven predominantly by organic volume growth that can be readily accommodated by additional
production shifts and equipment as necessary.

Commitment to innovation.We have a long track record of successful
product and process innovations that introduce valued new products and services to our customers and consumers. We are committed to continuing to invest in new product development and enhance customer service to strengthen our leading brands
and penetrate adjacent markets.

Diverse sales end-use mix.We sell in a variety of product categories in the U.S.
home and security products markets. In addition, our exposure to changing levels of U.S. residential new home construction activity is balanced with repair-and-remodel activity, which comprises a substantial majority of the overall U.S. home
products market and about two-thirds of our U.S. home products sales. We also benefit from a stable market for plumbing and security products and international sales growth opportunities.

Diverse sales channels.We sell through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented to builders or professional remodelers,
industrial and locksmith distributors, “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail outlets. We also sell security products to locksmiths, industrial distributors and mass merchants. We are able to leverage existing
sales channels to expand into adjacent product categories. In 2014, sales to our top ten customers represented less than half of total sales.

Decentralized business model.Our business segments are focused on distinct product categories and are responsible for their
own performance. This structure enables each of our segments to independently best position itself within each category in which it competes and reinforces strong accountability for operational and financial performance. Each of our segments focus
on its unique set of consumers, customers, competitors and suppliers, while also sharing best practices.







Strong capital structure.We exited 2014 with a strong balance sheet, even as we
completed the $116.7 million acquisition of SentrySafe in July and repurchased $439.8 million of our shares in 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we had $191.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and total debt was $670.0 million, resulting in a
net debt position of $478.1 million. In addition, we had $830.0 million available under our credit facilities as of December 31, 2014.

Business
Segments

We have four business segments: Cabinets, Plumbing, Doors and Security. The following table shows net sales for each of these segments,
including key brands within each segment:



Segment2014Net Sales(in millions)Percentage ofTotal 2014Net SalesKey BrandsCabinets$1,78845%Aristokraft, Kitchen Craft, Kitchen Classics, Omega, Homecrest, Diamond, Schrock, Decorá, Kemper, St. Paul, Thomasville(a), Martha Stewart Living(a)Plumbing1,33133%Moen, Cleveland Faucet Group (CFG)Doors41410%Therma-Tru, FyponSecurity48112%Master Lock, American Lock,SentrySafeTotal$4,014100%



(a)Thomasville is a registered trademark of Hhg Global Designs LLC and Martha Stewart Living is a registered trademark of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc.

Our segments compete on the basis of innovation, fashion, quality, price, service and responsiveness to distributor, retailer and
installer needs, as well as end-user consumer preferences. Our markets are very competitive. Approximately 17% of 2014 net sales were to international markets, and sales to two of the Company’s customers, The Home Depot, Inc. (“The Home
Depot”) and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (“Lowe’s”), each accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2014. Sales to all U.S. home centers in the aggregate were approximately 30% of net sales in 2014.

Cabinets.Our Cabinets segment manufactures custom, semi-custom and stock cabinetry, as well as vanities, for the
kitchen, bath and other parts of the home through a regional supply chain footprint to deliver high quality and service to our customers. This segment sells a portfolio of brands that enables our customers to differentiate themselves against
competitors. This portfolio includes brand names such as Aristokraft, Kitchen Craft, Kitchen Classics, Omega, Homecrest, Diamond, Schrock, Decorá, Kemper, St. Paul, Thomasville and Martha Stewart Living. Substantially all of this
segment’s sales are in North America. This segment sells directly to kitchen and bath dealers, home centers, wholesalers and large builders. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 39% of net sales of the Cabinets
segment in 2014. This segment’s competitors include Masco, American Woodmark and RSI, as well as a large number of smaller suppliers.

Plumbing.Our Plumbing segment manufactures or assembles and sells faucets, accessories and kitchen sinks in North America and
China, predominantly under the Moen brand. Although this segment sells plumbing products principally in the U.S., Canada and China, this segment also sells in Mexico, Southeast Asia and South America. Approximately 26% of 2014 net sales were to
international markets. This segment sells directly through its own sales force and indirectly through independent manufacturers’ representatives, primarily to wholesalers, home centers, mass merchandisers and industrial distributors. Sales to
The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised







approximately 26% of net sales of the Plumbing segment in 2014. This segment’s chief competitors include Delta (owned by Masco), Kohler, Pfister (owned by Spectrum Brands), American Standard
(owned by LIXIL Group) and imported private-label brands.

Doors.Our Doors segment manufactures and sells
fiberglass and steel entry door systems under the Therma-Tru brand and urethane millwork product lines under the Fypon brand. This segment benefits from the long-term trend away from traditional materials, such as wood, steel and aluminum, toward
more energy-efficient and durable synthetic materials. Therma-Tru products include fiberglass and steel residential entry door and patio door systems, primarily for sale in the U.S. and Canada. This segment’s principal customers are home
centers, millwork building products and wholesale distributors, and specialty dealers that provide products to the residential new construction market, as well as to the remodeling and renovation markets. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s
comprised approximately 11% of net sales of the Doors segment in 2014. This segment’s competitors include Masonite, JELD-WEN, Plastpro and Pella.

Security.Our Security segment’s products consist of locks, safety and security devices, and electronic security products
manufactured, sourced and distributed under the Master Lock brand and fire resistant safes, security containers and commercial cabinets manufactured, sourced and distributed under the SentrySafe brand. This segment sells products principally in the
U.S., Canada, Europe, Central America and Australia. Approximately 29% of 2014 net sales were to international markets. This segment manufactures and sells key-controlled and combination padlocks, bicycle and cable locks, built-in locker locks, door
hardware, automotive, trailer and towing locks, electronic access control solutions, and other specialty safety and security devices for consumer use to hardware, home center and other retail outlets. In addition, the segment sells lock systems to
locksmiths, industrial and institutional users, and original equipment manufacturers. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 16% of the net sales of the Security segment in 2014. Master Lock competes with Abus, W.H. Brady,
Hampton, Kwikset (owned by Spectrum Brands), Schlage (owned by Allegion), Assa Abloy and various imports, and SentrySafe competes with First Alert, Magnum, Fortress, Stack-On and Fire King.

Annual net sales for each of the last three fiscal years for each of our business segments were as follows:



(In millions)201420132012Cabinets$1,787.5$1,642.2$1,326.6Plumbing1,331.01,287.01,100.7Doors413.9371.6321.5Security481.2402.8386.0Total$4,013.6$3,703.6$3,134.8

For additional financial information for each of our business segments, refer to Note 18, “Information on Business
Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







Other Information

Raw materials.The table below indicates the principal raw materials used by each of our segments. These materials are available from a number of sources. Volatility in the
prices of commodities and energy used in making and distributing our products impacts the cost of manufacturing our products.



SegmentRaw MaterialsCabinetsHardwoods (maple, cherry and oak), plywood and particleboardPlumbingBrass, zinc, copper, resins and stainless steelDoorsResins, glass, foam, steel, wood and aluminumSecurityRolled steel and brass

Intellectual property.Product innovation and branding are important to the success of our
business. In addition to the brand protection offered by our trademarks, patent protection helps distinguish our unique product features in the market by preventing copying and making it more difficult for competitors to benefit unfairly from
our design innovation. We hold U.S. and foreign patents covering various features used in products sold within all of our business segments. Although each of our segments relies on a number of patents and patent groups that, in the aggregate,
provide important protections to the Company, no single patent or patent group is material to any of the Company’s segments.

Employees.As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 18,000 full-time employees. Approximately 13% of these employees
are covered by collective bargaining agreements, none of which are subject to agreements that will expire within one year. Employee relations are generally good.

Information about geographic areas.For additional information about net sales and assets by geographic areas, refer to Note 18, “Information on Business
Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Seasonality.All of our operating segments traditionally experience lower sales in the first quarter of the year when new home
construction, repair-and-remodel activity and security buying are lowest. As a result of sales seasonality and associated timing of working capital fluctuations, our cash flow from operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the
year.

Environmental matters.We are involved in remediation activities to clean up hazardous wastes as required by
federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs of each site are based on our best estimate of undiscounted future costs, excluding possible insurance recoveries or recoveries from other third parties. Uncertainties about the status of
laws, regulations, technology and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop estimates of environmental remediation exposures. Some of the potential liabilities relate to sites we own, and some relate to sites we no longer
own or never owned. Several of our subsidiaries have been designated as potentially responsible parties (“PRP”) under “Superfund” or similar state laws. As of December 31, 2014, nine such instances have not been
dismissed, settled or otherwise resolved. In the calendar year 2014, our subsidiaries were identified as a PRP in three new instances and we settled two of these new instances in 2014. In most instances where our subsidiaries are named as a
PRP, we enter into cost-sharing arrangements with other PRPs. We give notice to insurance carriers of potential PRP liability, but very rarely, if ever, receive reimbursement from insurance for PRP costs. We believe that the cost of complying with
the present environmental protection laws, before considering estimated recoveries







either from other PRPs or insurance, will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had accruals
of $2.8 million and $4.8 million, respectively, relating to environmental compliance and clean up including, but not limited to, the above mentioned Superfund sites.

Legal proceedings.We are defendants in lawsuits associated with the normal conduct of our businesses and operations. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending
actions and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably to us. We believe that there are meritorious defenses to these actions, which we are vigorously contesting and that these actions will not
have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

Legal
structure.Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. is a holding company that was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1988. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company include MasterBrand Cabinets, Inc., Moen
Incorporated, Fortune Brands Doors, Inc. and Fortune Brands Storage & Security LLC. As a holding company, Fortune Brands is a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. Accordingly, the rights of the Company, and thus
the rights of our creditors (including holders of debt securities and other obligations) and stockholders to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the claims of creditors of the subsidiary, except
to the extent that claims of the Company itself as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized, in which event the Company’s claims may in certain circumstances be subordinate to certain claims of others. In addition, as a holding company,
the source of our unconsolidated revenues and funds is dividends and other payments from subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their abilities to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions
with respect to their capital stock or other payments to the Company.

Available Information.The
Company’s website address is www.FBHS.com. The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on the
Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. These documents also are made available to read and copy at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the Public Reference Room by contacting the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov. We
also make available on our website, or in printed form upon request, free of charge, our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Charters for the Committees of our Board of
Directors and certain other information related to the Company.







