Item 1.Business.

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking
Statements

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to
(i) “Home & Security,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, after giving effect to the spin-off
of Home & Security from Fortune Brands, Inc. and (ii) “Former Parent” refer to Fortune Brands, Inc.

Separation

On September 27, 2011, the board of directors of our Former Parent approved the spin-off of Home & Security into an independent,
publicly-traded company (the “Separation”). On October 3, 2011, the Separation was completed, with the stockholders of our Former Parent receiving one share of Home & Security common stock for each share of Former Parent
common stock held on September 20, 2011. Following the Separation, our Former Parent changed its name to Beam Inc. and retained no ownership interest in Home & Security. On October 4, 2011, our common stock began trading
“regular-way” on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “FBHS”.

Our Company

We are a leading home and security products company that competes in attractive long-term growth markets in our categories. With a foundation of market-leading
brands and lean and flexible supply chains, as well as strong product innovation and customer service, we are focused on outperforming our markets in both growth and returns, and driving increased shareholder value. We sell our products through a
wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented toward builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors, “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail
outlets.







Our Strategy

Build on leading business and brand positions in attractive growth and return categories.We believe that we have
leading market positions and brands in many of our product categories. We are continuing to invest in targeted advertising and other strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing brand awareness and educating consumers regarding the breadth, features and
benefits of certain product lines. We also strive to leverage our brands to expand into adjacent product categories.

Continue to develop innovative products for customers, designers, installers and consumers.Sustained investments in consumer-driven product innovation and customer service, along with our lower cost structures, have contributed to our success in winning significant new business in the marketplace and creating consumer demand. MasterBrand
Cabinets launched innovative new door designs, color palettes and features in a range of styles that allows consumers to create a custom kitchen look at an affordable price. We have emerged as an industry leader in promoting energy efficiency and
“green” products. Moen has introduced an extensive line of eco-friendly faucets and showerheads that carry the EPA’s WaterSense designation. Moen’s track record of continued innovation includes offerings such as a market-leading
Spot Resist finish and our touchless Motionsense faucet. Therma-Tru and Simonton are leveraging advanced materials to deliver products that combine aesthetic beauty and energy efficiency. Therma-Tru introduced a new line of smooth fiberglass doors.
Master Lock has long been an innovative leader in security products, such as the easy-to-use Dial Speed™combination padlocks, and continues to grow by entering adjacent security categories such as life safety and electronic access control solutions.

Expand in international markets.We have opportunities to expand sales by further penetrating international markets, which represented approximately 17% of net sales in 2012.
For example, Moen is expanding in China, India and South America. Kitchen Craft is a strong and growing cabinetry brand in Canada. Master Lock continues to expand its presence in Europe and Asia Pacific, while Therma-Tru is making inroads in Canada
as consumers transition from traditional entry door materials to more advanced and energy-efficient fiberglass doors.

Leverage our global supply
chains.We are using lean manufacturing, design-to-manufacture and distributive assembly techniques to make our supply chains more flexible and improve supply chain quality, cost, response times and asset efficiency.
We view our supply chains as a strategic asset not only to support strong operating leverage as volumes recover, but also to enable the profitable growth of new products, adjacent market expansion and international growth.

Enhance returns and deploy our cash flow to high-return opportunities.We believe our most attractive opportunities are to
invest in profitable organic growth initiatives. In addition, we may invest in add-on acquisitions that leverage our existing brands and infrastructure, and we may make purchases of shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program. Both
add-on acquisitions and share repurchase opportunities may be particularly attractive in the next few years given the uncertain and uneven pace of recovery in our end markets. We expect that our Board of Directors will periodically evaluate
establishing a dividend.

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe our competitive strengths include the following:

Leading brands.We
have leading brands in many of our product categories. We believe that established brands are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers in their respective categories and that we have the opportunity to, among other things, expand many of our
brands into adjacent product categories and international markets.







Strategic focus on attractive consumer-facing categories.We believe we operate
in categories that, while very competitive, are among the more attractive categories in the home products and security products industries. Some of the key characteristics that make these categories attractive in our view include the following:



>product quality, innovation, fashion, finish, durability and functionality, which are key determinants of product selection in addition to price;



>established brands, which are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers;



>the opportunity to add value to a complex consumer purchasing decision with excellent service propositions, reliability of products, ease of installation and superior delivery
lead times;



>the value our products add to a home, particularly with kitchen and bath remodeling and additions, the curb appeal offered by stylish entry door systems and the potential energy
efficiency benefits of advanced materials windows and doors;



>favorable long-term trends that benefit the outlook for our markets over time;



>the relatively stable demand for security products; and



>the opportunity to expand into adjacent categories.

Supply
chain flexibility and lean cost structure.During the housing downturn, which began in 2006, we reduced the number of our manufacturing facilities and employees by approximately 40%, and we restructured our supply
chains, while maintaining substantial supply chain flexibility and brand investment. As a result, we believe we have positioned the Company well to absorb additional volume and drive strong growth in sales, profits and cash flows as the U.S. housing
market recovers from recessionary levels and demand improves. We believe our investments in lean manufacturing and productivity initiatives have resulted in supply chain flexibility and the ability to cost-effectively match demand levels that may be
uneven. In addition, our supply chains and lower cost structures are creating favorable operating leverage as volumes return without sacrificing customer service levels or lead times. We believe that margin improvement will be driven predominantly
by volume expansion that can be readily accommodated by additional production shifts and equipment as necessary.

Commitment to
innovation.The Company has a long track record of successful product and process innovations that introduce valued new products and services to our customers and consumers. The Company is committed to continuing
its investments in new product development and enhancing customer service to strengthen our leading brands and penetrate adjacent markets.

Diverse sales end-use mix.We sell in a variety of product categories in the U.S. home and security products market. In
addition, our exposure to changing levels of U.S. residential new home construction activity is counteracted by repair-and-remodel activity, which comprises a substantial majority of the overall U.S. home products market. We also benefit from a
stable market for security and storage products and international sales growth opportunities.

Diverse sales
channels.We sell through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented to builders or professional remodelers, industrial distributors, “do-it-yourself”
remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail outlets. We also sell security products to locksmiths, industrial distributors and mass merchants. We are able to leverage existing sales channels to expand into adjacent product categories. In 2012,
sales to our top ten customers represented less than half of total sales.

Decentralized business model.Our
business segments are focused on distinct product categories and are responsible for their own performance. This structure enables each of our segments to independently best position itself within each category in which it competes and







reinforces strong accountability for operational and financial performance. Each of our segments focuses on its unique set of consumers, customers, competitors and suppliers, while also sharing
best practices.

Business Segments

We have four
business segments: Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry, Plumbing & Accessories, Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems, and Security & Storage. The following table contains key information regarding each of these segments,
including what we believe are our leadership positions:



Segment2012Net Sales(in millions)Percentage ofTotal 2012Net SalesLeadership PositionKey BrandsKitchen & Bath Cabinetry$1,32637%#1 Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry manufacturerin
North AmericaAristokraft, Kitchen Craft, Kitchen Classics, Omega, Schrock, Homecrest, Decorá, Diamond, Kemper, Thomasville(a)and Martha Stewart Living(a)Plumbing & Accessories$1,10131%#1 faucet brand in North America and a leader in ChinaMoen, Cleveland Faucet Group (CFG)Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems$58716%#1 fiberglass residential entry door brand in the U.S. and a leader in vinyl windowsTherma-Tru, Simonton, FyponSecurity & Storage$57716%#1 in padlocks in North America and a leader in broader access control markets in North America and EuropeMaster Lock, American Lock, WaterlooTotal$3,591100%



(a)Thomasville Cabinetry is a registered trademark of Thomasville Home Furnishings, Inc. a subsidiary of Furniture Industries, Inc., and Martha Stewart Living is a
registered trademark of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc.

Our segments compete on the basis of innovation, fashion, quality,
price, service and responsiveness to distributor, retailer and installer needs, as well as end-user consumer preferences. Our markets are very competitive. Approximately 17% of 2012 net sales were to international markets, and sales to two of the
Company’s customers, The Home Depot, Inc. (“The Home Depot”) and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (“Lowe’s”), each accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2012. Sales to all U.S. home centers in the
aggregate were approximately 27% of net sales in 2012.

Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry.Our Kitchen &
Bath Cabinetry segment manufactures custom, semi-custom and stock cabinetry for the kitchen, bath and other parts of the home. We sell a portfolio of brands that enables our customers to differentiate themselves against competitors. This portfolio
includes brand names such as Aristokraft, Kitchen Craft, Kitchen Classics, Omega, Schrock, Homecrest, Decorá, Diamond, Kemper, Thomasville and Martha Stewart Living. Substantially all of







this segment’s sales are in North America. We sell directly to kitchen and bath dealers, home centers, wholesalers and large builders. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised
approximately 32% of net sales of the Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry segment in 2012. Our competitors include Masco and American Woodmark, as well as a large number of small suppliers.

Plumbing & Accessories.Our Plumbing & Accessories segment manufactures or assembles faucets, accessories and kitchen sinks in North America, China and India,
predominantly under the Moen brand. Although we sell Plumbing & Accessories products principally in the U.S. and Canada, we also sell them in China, Mexico, India, Southeast Asia and South America. Sales to international markets comprised
approximately 27% of sales in 2012. We sell directly through our own sales force and indirectly through independent manufacturers’ representatives, primarily to wholesalers, home centers, mass merchandisers and industrial distributors. Sales to
The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 29% of net sales of the Plumbing & Accessories segment in 2012. Our chief competitors include Delta (owned by Masco), Kohler, Pfister (owned by Stanley Black & Decker),
American Standard and imported private-label brands.

Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems.Our
Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems segment manufactures fiberglass and steel entry door systems, vinyl-framed window and patio doors, and urethane millwork product lines. This segment benefits from the long-term trend away from
traditional materials, such as wood, steel and aluminum, toward more energy-efficient and durable synthetic materials. Therma-Tru products include fiberglass and steel residential entry door and patio door systems, primarily for sale in the U.S. and
Canada. Simonton Windows is a leading national brand of vinyl-framed windows and patio doors. Simonton products are mainly manufactured and sold in the U.S. This segment’s principal customers are home centers, millwork building products and
wholesale distributors, and specialty dealers that provide products to the residential new construction market, as well as to the remodeling and renovation markets. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 17% of net sales of
the Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems segment in 2012. Our competitors include Masonite, JELD-WEN and Plastpro, Silverline (owned by Andersen Windows), Atrium and Milgard (owned by Masco).

Security & Storage.Our Security & Storage segment consists of locks, safety and security devices, and
electronic security products manufactured, sourced and distributed by Master Lock and tool storage and garage organization products manufactured by Waterloo. This segment sells products principally in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Australia and Central
America. Security & Storage sales to international markets comprised approximately 20% of sales in 2012. Master Lock manufactures and sells key-controlled and combination padlocks, bicycle and cable locks, built-in locker locks, door
hardware, automotive, trailer and towing locks, and other specialty safety and security devices. Master Lock sells products designed for consumer use to hardware and other retail outlets, wholesale distributors and home centers, and Master Lock
sells lock systems to locksmiths, industrial and institutional users, and original equipment manufacturers. Master Lock competes with Abus, W.H. Brady, Hampton, Kwikset (owned by Spectrum Brands), Schlage (owned by Ingersoll Rand), Assa Abloy and
various imports.

Waterloo manufactures tool storage and garage organization products, principally high-quality steel toolboxes, tool chests,
workbenches and related products. Waterloo primarily sells to Sears retail stores for resale under the Craftsman brand owned by Sears Brands, LLC. In addition, Waterloo sells under the Waterloo and private-label brand names to specialty industrial
and automotive dealers, mass merchandisers, home centers and hardware stores. Waterloo competes with Asian importers, Homak, Stanley Black & Decker, Snap-On, Kennedy, Stack-On and others in the metal storage segment and with Stanley
Black & Decker, Keter, Newell Rubbermaid and others in the plastic hand box category.







Annual net sales for each of the last three fiscal years for each of our business segments were as follows:



(In millions)201220112010Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry$1,326.6$1,256.3$1,188.8Plumbing & Accessories1,100.7962.8923.8Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems587.2552.9600.7Security & Storage576.6556.6520.2Total$3,591.1$3,328.6$3,233.5

For additional financial information for each of our business segments, refer to Note 17, “Information on Business
Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Other Information

Raw materials.The table below indicates the principal raw materials used by each of our segments. These materials are
available from a number of sources. Volatility in the prices of commodities and energy used in making and distributing our products impacts the cost of manufacturing our products.



SegmentRaw MaterialsKitchen & Bath CabinetryHardwoods (maple, cherry and oak), plywood and particleboardPlumbing & AccessoriesBrass, zinc, copper, resins and stainless steelAdvanced Material Windows & Door SystemsResins, steel and glassSecurity & StorageRolled steel and brass

Intellectual property.Product innovation and branding are important to the success of our
business. In addition to the brand protection offered by our trademarks, patent protection helps distinguish our unique product features in the market by preventing copying and making it more difficult for competitors to benefit unfairly from
our design innovation. We hold U.S. and foreign patents covering various features used in products sold within all of our business segments. Although each of our segments relies on a number of patents and patent groups that, in the aggregate,
provide important protections to the Company, no patent or patent group is material to any of the Company’s segments.

Employees.As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 16,100 full-time employees. Approximately 12% of these employees
are covered by collective bargaining agreements, approximately 20% of which are subject to agreements that will expire within one year. Employee relations are generally good.

Information about geographic areas.For additional information, refer to Note 17, “Information on Business Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Seasonality.All of our operating segments traditionally
experience lower sales in the first quarter of the year when new home construction, repair-and-remodel activity and security and storage buying are lowest. As a result of sales seasonality and associated timing of working capital fluctuations, our
cash flow from operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the year.







Environmental matters.

Legal proceedings.We
are defendants in lawsuits associated with the normal conduct of our businesses and operations. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending actions and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of these actions could be decided
unfavorably to us. We believe that there are meritorious defenses to these actions and that these actions will not have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, and, where appropriate, these
actions are being vigorously contested.

Legal structure.

Available
Information.The Company’s website address is www.FBHS.com. The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to
these reports are available free of charge on the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. These documents also are made available to read and copy at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the Public Reference Room by contacting the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Reports filed with the SEC are also made
available on its website at www.sec.gov. We also make available on our website, or in printed form upon request, free of charge, our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics,







Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Charters for the Committees of our Board of Directors and certain other information related to the Company.

