Item 1.  Business.

Cautionary Statement Concerning
Forward-Looking Statements

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to (i) “Home & Security,” the
“Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, after giving effect to the spin-off of Home & Security from Fortune Brands,
Inc. and (ii) “Former Parent” refer to Fortune Brands, Inc.

Our Company

We are a leading home and security products company that competes in attractive long-term growth markets in our categories. With a foundation of market-leading brands across a diversified mix of channels, and lean
and flexible supply chains, as well as a tradition of strong product innovation and customer service, we are focused on outperforming our markets in both growth and returns, and driving increased shareholder value. We sell our products through a
wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented toward builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors, “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail
outlets. We believe the Company’s track record reflects the long-term attractiveness and potential of our categories and our leading brands. Our performance over the past two years demonstrates the strength of our operating model and our
ability to generate profitable growth as volume returns and we leverage our competitive advantages to gain share in our categories.

Our Strategy

Build on leading business and brand positions in attractive growth and return categories.We believe that we
have leading market positions and brands in many of our product categories. We are continuing to invest in targeted advertising and other strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing brand awareness and educating consumers regarding the breadth,
features and benefits of certain product lines. We also strive to leverage our brands to expand into adjacent product categories.

Continue to
develop innovative products for customers, designers, installers and consumers.Sustained investments in consumer-driven product innovation and customer service, along with our lower cost structures, have contributed
to our success in winning significant new







award-winning

Expand in international markets.    We have opportunities to expand sales by further penetrating international markets, which
represented approximately 16% of net sales in 2013. Moen has continued to expand in China. Kitchen Craft is a leading cabinetry brand in Canada. Master Lock has continued to expand its presence in Europe, while Therma-Tru has made inroads in Canada
as consumers transition from traditional entry door materials to more advanced and energy-efficient fiberglass doors.

Leverage our global supply
chains.    We are using lean manufacturing, design-to-manufacture and distributive assembly techniques to make our supply chains more flexible and improve supply chain quality, cost, response times and asset efficiency.
We view our supply chains as a strategic asset not only to support strong operating leverage as volumes recover, but also to enable the profitable growth of new products, adjacent market expansion and international growth.

Enhance returns and deploy our cash flow to high-return opportunities.    We believe our most attractive opportunities are to
invest in profitable organic growth initiatives, pursue accretive strategic acquisitions and return cash to shareholders through a combination of dividends and repurchases of shares of our common stock under our share repurchase programs. Both
add-on acquisitions and share repurchase opportunities may be particularly attractive in the next few years. In June 2013, our Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry business acquired Woodcrafters Home Products Holding, LLC (“WoodCrafters”), a
manufacturer of bathroom vanities and tops. In addition, in the second quarter of 2013, our Board of Directors declared our first dividend since becoming a publicly-traded company in October 2011, declaring a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.10
per share of our common stock. In December 2013, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend by 20% to $0.12 per share of our common stock.

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe our competitive strengths include the following:

Leading brands.    We have leading brands in many of our product categories. We believe that established brands are meaningful to
both consumers and trade customers in their respective categories and that we have the opportunity to, among other things, expand many of our brands into adjacent product categories and international markets.







Strategic focus on attractive consumer-facing categories.We believe we operate
in categories that, while very competitive, are among the more attractive categories in the home products and security products markets. Some of the key characteristics that make these categories attractive in our view include the following:



>product quality, innovation, fashion, finish, durability and functionality, which are key determinants of product selection in addition to price;



>established brands, which are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers;



>the opportunity to add value to a complex consumer purchasing decision with excellent service propositions, reliability of products, ease of installation and superior delivery
lead times;



>the value our products add to a home, particularly with kitchen and bath remodeling and additions, the curb appeal offered by stylish entry door systems and the potential energy
efficiency benefits of advanced materials windows and doors;



>favorable long-term trends that benefit the outlook for our markets over time;



>the relatively stable demand for plumbing and security products; and



>the opportunity to expand into adjacent categories.

Operational excellence.During the housing downturn, we reduced the number of our manufacturing facilities and employees and
we restructured our supply chains, while maintaining substantial supply chain flexibility and brand investment. As a result, we believe we have positioned the Company well to absorb additional volume and drive strong growth in sales, profits and
cash flows as the U.S. housing market continues to recover and demand improves. We believe our investments in lean manufacturing and productivity initiatives have resulted in supply chain flexibility and the ability to cost-effectively add capacity
in order to match demand levels. In addition, our supply chains and lower cost structures are creating favorable operating leverage as volumes grow without sacrificing customer service levels or lead times. We believe that margin improvement will
continue to be driven predominantly by organic volume growth that can be readily accommodated by additional production shifts and equipment as necessary. In 2014, we plan to begin to invest in incremental capacity to support long-term growth
potential.

Commitment to innovation.The Company has a long track record of successful product and process
innovations that introduce valued new products and services to our customers and consumers. The Company is committed to continuing its investments in new product development and enhancing customer service to strengthen our leading brands and
penetrate adjacent markets.

Diverse sales end-use mix.We sell in a variety of product categories in the U.S. home
and security products market. In addition, our exposure to changing levels of U.S. residential new home construction activity is counteracted by repair-and-remodel activity, which comprises a substantial majority of the overall U.S. home products
market and about two-thirds of our U.S. home products sales. We also benefit from a stable market for plumbing and security products and international sales growth opportunities.

Diverse sales channels.We sell through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented to builders or professional remodelers,
industrial and locksmith distributors, “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers and other retail outlets. We also sell security products to locksmiths, industrial distributors and mass merchants. We are able to leverage existing
sales channels to expand into adjacent product categories. In 2013, sales to our top ten customers represented less than half of total sales.

Decentralized business model.Our business segments are focused on distinct product categories and are responsible for their
own performance. This structure enables each of our







segments to independently best position itself within each category in which it competes and reinforces strong accountability for operational and financial performance. Each of our segments focus
on its unique set of consumers, customers, competitors and suppliers, while also sharing best practices.

Strong capital
structure.We exited 2013 with a strong balance sheet, even as we completed the approximately $302 million acquisition of WoodCrafters, repurchased $52.1 million of our shares and initiated a quarterly dividend during
the year. As of December 31, 2013, we had $241.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and total debt was $356.0 million, resulting in a net debt position of $114.6 million. In addition, we had $650 million available under our credit facilities.

Business Segments

We have four business
segments: Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry, Plumbing & Accessories, Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems, and Security & Storage. The following table shows net sales for each of these segments, including key brands
within each segment:



Segment2013Net Sales(in millions)Percentage ofTotal 2013Net SalesKey BrandsKitchen & Bath Cabinetry$1,64239%Aristokraft, Kitchen Craft, Kitchen Classics, Omega, Schrock, Homecrest, Decorá, Diamond, Kemper, Thomasville(a), Martha Stewart Living(a)Plumbing & Accessories1,28731%Moen, Cleveland Faucet Group (CFG)Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems65816%Therma-Tru, Simonton, FyponSecurity & Storage57014%Master Lock, American Lock, WaterlooTotal$4,157100%



(a)Thomasville is a registered trademark of Hhg Global Designs LLC and Martha Stewart Living is a registered trademark of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc.

Our segments compete on the basis of innovation, fashion, quality, price, service and responsiveness to distributor, retailer and
installer needs, as well as end-user consumer preferences. Our markets are very competitive. Approximately 16% of 2013 net sales were to international markets, and sales to two of the Company’s customers, The Home Depot, Inc. (“The Home
Depot”) and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (“Lowe’s”), each accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2013. Sales to all U.S. home centers in the aggregate were approximately 29% of net sales in 2013.

Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry.Our Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry segment manufactures custom, semi-custom
and stock cabinetry for the kitchen, bath and other parts of the home. This segment sells a portfolio of brands that enables our customers to differentiate themselves against competitors. This portfolio includes brand names such as Aristokraft,
Kitchen Craft, Kitchen Classics, Omega, Schrock, Homecrest, Decorá, Diamond, Kemper, Thomasville and Martha Stewart Living. Substantially all of this segment’s sales are in North America. This segment sells directly to kitchen and bath
dealers, home centers, wholesalers and large builders. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 37% of net sales of the Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry segment in 2013. This segment’s competitors include Masco and
American Woodmark, as well as a large number of smaller suppliers.







Plumbing & Accessories.Our Plumbing & Accessories segment
manufactures or assembles and sells faucets, accessories and kitchen sinks in North America and China, predominantly under the Moen brand. Although this segment sells Plumbing & Accessories products principally in the U.S. and Canada, this
segment also sells in China, Mexico, Southeast Asia and South America. Approximately 26% of 2013 net sales were to international markets. This segment sells directly through its own sales force and indirectly through independent manufacturers’
representatives, primarily to wholesalers, home centers, mass merchandisers and industrial distributors. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 26% of net sales of the Plumbing & Accessories segment in 2013. This
segment’s chief competitors include Delta (owned by Masco), Kohler, Pfister (owned by Spectrum Brands), American Standard (owned by LIXIL Group) and imported private-label brands.

Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems.Our Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems segment manufactures and sells fiberglass and steel entry door systems,
vinyl-framed window and patio doors, and urethane millwork product lines. This segment benefits from the long-term trend away from traditional materials, such as wood, steel and aluminum, toward more energy-efficient and durable synthetic materials.
Therma-Tru products include fiberglass and steel residential entry door and patio door systems, primarily for sale in the U.S. and Canada. Simonton Windows is a leading national brand of vinyl-framed windows and patio doors. Simonton products are
mainly manufactured and sold in the U.S. This segment’s principal customers are home centers, millwork building products and wholesale distributors, and specialty dealers that provide products to the residential new construction market, as well
as to the remodeling and renovation markets. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 15% of net sales of the Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems segment in 2013. This segment’s competitors include Masonite,JELD-WEN,Plastpro, Silverline (owned by Andersen Windows), Pella, Atrium and Milgard (owned by Masco).

Security & Storage.Our Security & Storage segment consists of locks, safety and security devices, and
electronic security products manufactured, sourced and distributed by Master Lock and tool storage and garage organization products manufactured by Waterloo. This segment sells products principally in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Central America and
Australia. Approximately 22% of 2013 net sales were to international markets. Master Lock manufactures and sells key-controlled and combination padlocks, bicycle and cable locks, built-in locker locks, door hardware, automotive, trailer and towing
locks, electronic access control solutions, and other specialty safety and security devices. Master Lock sells products designed for consumer use to hardware and other retail outlets, wholesale distributors and home centers, and Master Lock sells
lock systems to locksmiths, industrial and institutional users, and original equipment manufacturers. Sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 16% of the net sales of the Security & Storage segment in 2013. Master
Lock competes with Abus, W.H. Brady, Hampton, Kwikset (owned by Spectrum Brands), Schlage (owned by Allegion), Assa Abloy and various imports.

Waterloo
manufactures tool storage and garage organization products, principally high-quality steel toolboxes, tool chests, workbenches and related products. Waterloo primarily sells to Sears retail stores for resale under the Craftsman brand owned by Sears
Brands, LLC. In addition, Waterloo sells under the Waterloo and private-label brand names to specialty industrial and automotive dealers, mass merchandisers, home centers and hardware stores. Waterloo competes with Asian importers, Homak, Stanley
Black & Decker, Snap-On, Kennedy, Stack-On and others in the metal storage category and with Stanley Black & Decker, Keter, Newell Rubbermaid and others in the plastic hand box category.







Annual net sales for each of the last three fiscal years for each of our business segments were as follows:



(In millions)201320122011Kitchen & Bath Cabinetry$1,642.2$1,326.6$1,256.3Plumbing & Accessories1,287.01,100.7962.8Advanced Material Windows & Door Systems657.8587.2552.9Security & Storage570.4576.6556.6Total$4,157.4$3,591.1$3,328.6

For additional financial information for each of our business segments, refer to Note 18, “Information on Business
Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Separation

On September 27, 2011, the board of directors of our Former Parent approved the spin-off of Home & Security into an independent, publicly-traded
company (the “Separation”). On October 3, 2011, the Separation was completed, with the stockholders of our Former Parent receiving one share of Home & Security common stock for each share of Former Parent common stock held on
September 20, 2011. Following the Separation, our Former Parent changed its name to Beam Inc. and retained no ownership interest in Home & Security. On October 4, 2011, our common stock began trading “regular-way” on the
New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “FBHS”.

Other Information

Raw materials.The table below indicates the principal raw materials used by each of our segments. These materials are available from a number of sources. Volatility in the
prices of commodities and energy used in making and distributing our products impacts the cost of manufacturing our products.



SegmentRaw MaterialsKitchen & Bath CabinetryHardwoods (maple, cherry and oak), plywood and particleboardPlumbing & AccessoriesBrass, zinc, copper, resins and stainless steelAdvanced Material Windows & Door SystemsGlass, resins and steelSecurity & StorageRolled steel and brass

Intellectual property.Product innovation and branding are important to the success of our
business. In addition to the brand protection offered by our trademarks, patent protection helps distinguish our unique product features in the market by preventing copying and making it more difficult for competitors to benefit unfairly from
our design innovation. We hold U.S. and foreign patents covering various features used in products sold within all of our business segments. Although each of our segments relies on a number of patents and patent groups that, in the aggregate,
provide important protections to the Company, no single patent or patent group is material to any of the Company’s segments.

Employees.As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 19,500 full-time employees. Approximately 19% of these employees
are covered by collective bargaining agreements, approximately half of which are subject to agreements that will expire within one year. Employee relations are generally good.







Information about geographic areas.For additional information, refer to
Note 18, “Information on Business Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Seasonality.All of our operating segments traditionally experience lower sales in the first quarter of the year when new home
construction, repair-and-remodel activity and security and storage buying are lowest. As a result of sales seasonality and associated timing of working capital fluctuations, our cash flow from operating activities is typically higher in the second
half of the year.

Environmental matters.

Legal proceedings.We are defendants in lawsuits associated with the normal conduct of our businesses and operations. It is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending
actions and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably to us. We believe that there are meritorious defenses to these actions and that these actions will not have a material adverse effect upon
our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, and, where appropriate, these actions are being vigorously contested.

Legal
structure.Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. is a holding company that was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1988. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company include MasterBrand Cabinets, Inc., Moen
Incorporated, Fortune Brands Windows & Doors, Inc. and Fortune Brands Storage & Security LLC. As a holding company, Home & Security is a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. Accordingly, the
rights of the Company, and thus the rights of our creditors (including holders of debt securities and other obligations) and stockholders to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the claims of
creditors of the subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of the Company itself as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized, in which event the Company’s claims may in certain circumstances be subordinate to certain claims of others.
In addition, as a holding company, the source of our unconsolidated revenues and funds is dividends and other payments from subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their abilities to pay cash dividends
or to make other distributions with respect to their capital stock or other payments to the Company.

Available
Information.The Company’s website address is www.FBHS.com. The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to
these reports are available free of charge on the Company’s website as soon as







reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. These documents also are made available to read and copy at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the Public Reference Room by contacting the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov. We
also make available on our website, or in printed form upon request, free of charge, our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Charters for the Committees of our Board of
Directors and certain other information related to the Company.

