Item 1.BUSINESS

Overview



Allegion plc ("Allegion," "we," "us" or "the Company") is a leading global provider of security products and solutions that keep people safe, secure and productive. We make the world safer as a company of experts, securing the places where people thrive and we create peace of mind by pioneering safety and security. We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of mechanical and electronic security products across a range of market-leading brands. Our experts across the globe deliver high-quality security products, services and systems and we use our deep expertise to serve as trusted partners to end-users who seek customized solutions to their security needs.

Allegion Principal ProductsDoor closers and controlsDoor and door frames (steel)Electronic security productsElectronic and biometric access control systemsExit devicesLocks, locksets and key systemsTime, attendance and workforce productivity systemsVideo analytics systemsOther accessories



Access control security products and solutions are critical elements in every building. Most door openings are custom-configured to maximize a room’s particular form and function while also meeting local and national building and safety code requirements and end-user security needs. Most buildings have multiple door openings, each serving its own purpose and requiring different specific access-control solutions. Each door must fit exactly within its frame, be prepared precisely for its hinges, synchronize with its specific lockset and corresponding latch and align with a specific key to secure the door. Moreover, security products are increasingly linked electronically, creating additional functionality and complexity.



We believe our ability to deliver a wide range of solutions that can be custom-configured to meet end-users’ security needs is a key driver of our success. We accomplish this with:



•Our extensive and versatile product portfolio, combined with our deep expertise, which enables us to deliver the right products and solutions to meet diverse security and functional specifications;

•Our consultative approach and expertise, which enables us to develop the most efficient and appropriate building security and access-control specifications to fulfill the unique needs of our end-users and their partners, including architects, contractors, home-builders and engineers; and

•Our operational excellence capabilities, including our global manufacturing operations and agile supply chain, which facilitate our ability to deliver specific product and system configurations to end-users worldwide, quickly and efficiently.



Based on information derived from third party sources, we estimate that the size of the global markets we serve was more than $30 billion in revenue in 2014, comprised of $25 billion for mechanical hardware and electronic security  products and more than $5 billion for time, attendance, and workforce productivity systems and systems integration. We believe that the security products industry will benefit from several global macroeconomic and long-term demographic trends, including:

•recovery of construction markets in key North American markets

•heightened awareness of security requirements,

•increased global urbanization, and

•the shift to a digital, interconnected environment.



In the more established economies of North America and Europe, the security products industry’s compound annual growth rate was 1 to 2% per year due to uneven economic conditions experienced over the past three years. We believe our markets are poised for a cyclical recovery driven in part by accelerating growth in the underlying commercial and residential construction markets and improved consumer confidence in the United States offsetting unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, we expect growth in the global electronic product categories we serve to outperform the security products industry as end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities.



We operate in three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East, India and Africa ("EMEIA"); and Asia Pacific. We sell our products and solutions under the following brands:









Allegion Brands(listed alphabetically for each region)Product CategoryAmericasEMEIAAsia PacificLocks/Locksets/Key SystemsDoor Closers and Controls/Exit DevicesElectronic Products and Access Control Systems, including Time, Attendance and Workforce Productivity and Video Analytics SystemsDoors and Door FramesOther Accessories











We sell a wide range of security products and solutions for end-users in commercial, institutional and residential facilities worldwide, including into the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. Our strategic brands are Schlage®, Von Duprin®, LCN®, CISA® and Interflex®. We believe Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN hold the No. 1 position in their primary product categories in North America and CISA and Interflex hold the No.1 or No. 2 position in their primary product categories in certain European markets.



For the year endedDecember 31, 2014, we generated revenues of$2,118.3 millionand operating income of$326.3 million.



Revenue By Geographic DestinationRevenue By Product Category



History and Developments



Allegion plc was incorporated in Ireland on May 9, 2013, to hold Ingersoll Rand’s commercial and residential security businesses. On December 1, 2013, Allegion became a stand-alone public company after Ingersoll Rand completed the separation of these businesses from the rest of Ingersoll Rand via the transfer of these businesses from Ingersoll Rand to Allegion and the issuance by Allegion of ordinary shares directly to Ingersoll Rand’s shareholders (the "Spin-off").  Our security businesses have long and distinguished operating histories. Several of our brands were established more than 75 years ago, and many of our brands originally created their categories:



•Von Duprin, established in 1908, was awarded the first exit device patent;

•Schlage, established in 1920, was awarded the first patents granted for the cylindrical lock and the push button lock;

•LCN, established in 1926, created the first door closure;

•CISA, established in 1926, devised the first electronically controlled lock; and

•Steelcraft Doors, established in 1927, developed the first mass-produced hollow metal door in 1942.



We have built upon these founding legacies since our entry into the security products market through the acquisition of Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN in 1974. Today, we continue to develop and introduce innovative and market-leading products. Recent examples include: Schlage NDE series wireless commercial lock with the ENGAGE connectivity platform; Schlage Touchscreen Deadbolt, a residential lock; CISA eSigno, a hotel locking platform; eVayo, a European electronics security platform; Von Duprin Concealed Vertical Cable System that significantly reduces total installation time and ongoing maintenance requirements; aptiQ, a versatile and multi-technology card reader platform; and Schlage’s AD/CO, an electronic locking platform that allows end-users to add additional features without lock replacement.



Industry and Competition



Based on third party sources, we estimate that the size of the global markets we serve was more than $31 billion in revenue in 2014, comprised of $26 billion for mechanical hardware and electronic security products and more than $5 billion for time, attendance, and workforce productivity systems and systems integration, with compound annual growth of about 1 to 2% per year over the past three years. This growth rate primarily reflects cyclical challenges in the commercial and residential construction markets throughout North America and Europe as certain developing economies experienced higher growth rates during this period. Additionally, growth in electronic security products and solutions continues to outperform the industry as a whole as end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities. We expect the security products industry will benefit from favorable long-term









demographic trends such as continued urbanization of the global population, increased concerns about safety and security and technology-driven innovation.



The security products markets are highly competitive and fragmented throughout the world, with a number of large multi-national companies and thousands of smaller regional and local companies. This high fragmentation primarily reflects local regulatory requirements and highly variable end-user needs.  We believe our principal global competitors are Assa Abloy AB, DORMA Holding GmbH, Kaba Holding AG, and Stanley Black & Decker Inc. We also face competition in various markets and product categories throughout the world, including from Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. in the North American residential market.  As we move into more technologically-advanced product categories, we may also compete against smaller, more specialized competitors.



Our success depends on a variety of factors, including brand and reputation, product breadth, quality and delivery capabilities, price and service capabilities.  As many of our businesses sell through wholesale distribution, our success also depends on building and partnering with a strong channel network.  Although price often serves as an important customer decision criterion, we also compete based on the breadth and quality of our products and solutions, our ability to custom-configure solutions to meet individual end-user requirements and our global supply chain.



Our Reporting Segments



We manufacture and sell mechanical and electronic security products and solutions in approximately 130 countries. Approximately 89% of our 2014 revenues were to customers in the North America, Western Europe and the Asia-Pacific regions.



The following table presents the relative percentages of total segment revenue attributable to each reporting segment for each of the last three fiscal years. See Note 21, “Business Segment Information,” to our annual combined and consolidated financial statements for information regarding net revenues, operating income, and total assets by reportable segment:



For the Years Ended December 31,201420132012Americas74%73%73%EMEIA18%19%20%Asia Pacific8%8%7%



Our Americas segment provides security products and solutions in approximately 30 countries throughout North America and parts of South America. The segment offers a broad range of products and solutions including locks, locksets, key systems, door closers, exit devices, doors and door frames, electronic product and access control systems to end-users in the commercial, institutional and residential markets, including into the education, healthcare, government, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. This segment’s strategic brands are Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN.



Our EMEIA segment provides security products and solutions in approximately 85 countries throughout Europe, the Middle East, India and Africa. The segment offers the same portfolio of products as the Americas segment, as well as time and attendance and workforce productivity solutions. This segment’s strategic brands are Bricard, CISA and Interflex. This segment also resells Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN products, primarily in the Middle East.



Our Asia Pacific segment provides security products and solutions in approximately 14 countries throughout Asia Pacific. The segment offers the same portfolio of products as the Americas segment, as well as video analytics solutions. This segment’s strategic brands are Schlage, CISA, Von Duprin and LCN.



Products and Services



We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of mechanical and electronic security products across a range of market-leading brands:



•Locks, locksets and key systems: A broad array of tubular and mortise door locksets, security levers, and master key systems that are used to protect and control access. We also offer a range of portable security products, including bicycle, small vehicle and travel locks.

•Door closers and exit devices: An extensive portfolio of life-safety products generally installed on fire doors and facility entrances and exits. Door closers are devices that automatically close doors after they are opened. Exit









devices are generally horizontal attachments to doors and enable rapid exit from the premises.

•Electronic Security Products and Access Control Systems: A broad range of electrified locks, door closers, exit devices, access control systems, biometric hand reader systems, key card and reader systems, accessories, and automatic doors.

•Time, Attendance and Workforce Productivity Systems: Products and services designed to help business customers manage and monitor workforce access control parameters, attendance and employee scheduling. We offer ongoing aftermarket services in addition to design and installation offerings.

•Video Analytics: Electronic video analytics systems and services, primarily for business and government customers in Asia Pacific. We offer ongoing aftermarket services in addition to design and installation offerings.

•Doors and Door Frames: A portfolio of hollow metal doors and door frames. In select geographies, we also provide installation and service maintenance services.

•Other Accessories: A variety of additional security and product components, including hinges, door levers, door stops and other accessories, as well as certain bathroom fittings products.



Customers



We sell most of our products and solutions through distribution and retail channels, ranging from specialty distribution to wholesalers. We have built a network of more than 7,000 channel partners that help our customers choose the right solution to meet their security needs. Our channel partners that sell to commercial and institutional end-users helped fulfill and install orders to more than 30,000 end-users in2014. We also sell through a variety of retail channels, ranging from large do-it-yourself home improvement centers to small, specialty showroom outlets. We work with our retail partners on developing marketing and merchandising strategies to maximize their sales per square foot of shelf space.



Through our Interflex and China-based video and systems integration businesses, we provide products and solutions directly to end-users.



Our 10 largest customers represented approximately 21% of our total revenues in2014. No single customer represented 10% or more of our total revenues in2014.



Sales and Marketing



In markets where we sell through commercial and institutional distribution channels, we employ sales professionals around the world who work with a combination of end-users, security professionals, architects, contractors, engineers and distribution partners to develop specific custom-configured solutions for our end-users’ needs.  Our field sales professionals are assisted by specification writers who work with architects, engineers and consultants to help design door openings and security systems to meet end-users’ functional, aesthetic and regulatory requirements. Both groups are supported by dedicated customer care and technical sales-support specialists worldwide. We also support our sales efforts with a variety of marketing efforts, including trade-specific advertising, cooperative distributor merchandising, digital marketing, and marketing at a variety of industry trade shows.



In markets in which we sell through retail and home-builder distribution channels, we have teams of sales, merchandising and marketing professionals who help drive brand and product awareness through our channel partners and to consumers. We utilize a variety of advertising and marketing strategies, including traditional consumer media, retail merchandising, digital marketing, retail promotions, and builder and consumer trade shows, to support these teams.



We also work actively with several regulatory bodies around the world to help promote effective and consistent safety and security standards.  For example, we are members of Builders Hardware Manufacturers Association, Security Industry Association, Smart Card Alliance, American Society of Healthcare Engineering, American Institute of Architects, Construction Specification Institute, ASSOFERMA (Italy), BHE (Germany) and UNIQ (France). We also have established the Safety and Security Institute in China, which helps to educate government officials, architects and builders and advocates for consistent building codes and standards that address end-users’ safety and security.



Production and Distribution



We manufacture our products in our geographic markets around the world. We operate 19 production facilities, including 10 in the Americas region, six in EMEIA and three in Asia Pacific. We own 10 of these facilities and lease the others. Our strategy is to produce in the region of use, wherever appropriate, to allow us to be closer to the end-user and increase efficiency and timely product delivery.











In managing our network of production facilities, we focus on eliminating excess capacity, reducing cycle time through productivity, and harmonizing production practices and safety procedures.



We distribute our products through a broad network of channel partners.  In addition, third-party logistics providers perform storage and distribution services for us to support certain parts of our distribution network.



Raw Materials



We support our region-of-use production strategy with corresponding region-of-use supplier partners, where available. Our global and regional commodity teams work with production leadership, product management and materials management teams to ensure adequate materials are available for production at the lowest possible cost.



We purchase a wide range of raw materials, including steel, zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals, to support our production facilities. Where appropriate, we may enter into long-term supply arrangements or fixed-cost contracts to lower overall costs. We do not believe the loss of any particular supplier would be material to our business.



Intellectual Property



Intellectual property, inclusive of certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, is important to our business.  We create, protect and enforce our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to try to ensure the protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights. We use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that such distinctive marks are an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us and in distinguishing our products from others. We consider our Schlage, Von Duprin, CISA and other associated trademarks to be among our most valuable assets, and we have registered these trademarks in a number of countries. Although certain proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we do not believe we are materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses.



Facilities



We operate through a broad network of sales offices, 19 production facilities and several distribution centers throughout the world.  Our active properties represent about 5.1 million square feet, of which approximately 54% is leased.



The following table shows the location of our worldwide production facilities:

Production FacilitiesAmericasEMEIAAsia PacificBlue Ash, OhioDurchhausen, GermanyAuckland, New ZealandBogota, ColombiaDuzce, TurkeyJinshan, ChinaCaracas, VenezuelaFaenza, ItalyMelbourne, AustraliaChino, CaliforniaFeuquieres, FranceEnsenada, MexicoRenchen, GermanyIndianapolis, IndianaMonsampolo, ItalyPrinceton, IllinoisSecurity, ColoradoTecate, MexicoTijuana, Mexico



Research and Development

We are committed to investing in highly productive research and development capabilities, particularly in electro-mechanical systems.  Our research and development ("R&D") expenditures were approximately $43.3 million, $39.6 millionand $38.2 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012, respectively.



We concentrate on developing technology innovations that will deliver growth through the introduction of new products and solutions, and also on driving continuous improvements in product cost, quality, safety and sustainability.











We manage our R&D team as a global group with an emphasis on a global collaborative approach to identify and develop new technologies and worldwide product platforms. We are organized on a regional basis to leverage expertise in local standards and configurations. In addition to regional engineering centers in each geographic region, we also operate a global engineering center of excellence in Bangalore, India.



Seasonality



Our business experiences seasonality that varies by product line. Because more construction and do-it-yourself projects occur during the second and third calendar quarters of each year in the Northern Hemisphere, our security product sales, typically, are higher in those quarters than in the first and fourth calendar quarters. However, our Interflex and Asia Pacific systems integration businesses typically experience higher sales in the fourth calendar quarter due to project timing. Revenue by quarter for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 are as follows:

First QuarterSecond QuarterThird QuarterFourth Quarter201422%24%26%28%201323%26%26%25%201223%26%26%25%



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2014, we had more than 8,500 employees, approximately 20% of whom have the terms of their employment covered under collective bargaining agreements. Our non-management European employees are represented by national and local works councils.



Environmental Regulation

We are dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities.

We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") and similar state authorities. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party ("PRP") for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites. For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal.

In estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties’ financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future.



We incurred $2.9 million, $2.1 million, and$2.9 millionof expenses during the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013, and2012, respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. As ofDecember 31, 2014and2013, we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $8.8 millionand $10.8 million, respectively.  Of these amounts $2.4 millionand $2.9 million, respectively, relate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us.  Given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain.



Available Information



We are required to file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov.



In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as future quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website(http://www.allegion.com)









as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of the Company’s website are not incorporated by reference in this report.





