Item 1.BUSINESS

Overview



Allegion plc ("Allegion," "we," "us" or "the Company") is a leading global provider of security products and solutions that keep people safe, secure and productive. We make the world safer as a company of experts, securing the places where people thrive and we create peace of mind by pioneering safety and security. We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of mechanical and electronic security products across a range of market-leading brands. Our experts across the globe deliver high-quality security products, services and systems and we use our deep expertise to serve as trusted partners to end-users who seek customized solutions to their security needs.

Allegion Principal ProductsDoor closers and controlsDoor and door frames (steel)Electronic security productsElectronic and biometric access control systemsExit devicesLocks, locksets and key systemsTime, attendance and workforce productivity systemsVideo analytics systemsOther accessories



Access control security products and solutions are critical elements in every building. Most door openings are custom-configured to maximize a room’s particular form and function while also meeting local and national building and safety code requirements and end-user security needs. Most buildings have multiple door openings, each serving its own purpose and requiring different specific access-control solutions. Each door must fit exactly within its frame, be prepared precisely for its hinges, synchronize with its specific lockset and corresponding latch and align with a specific key to secure the door. Moreover, security products are increasingly linked electronically, creating additional functionality and complexity.



We believe our ability to deliver a wide range of solutions that can be custom-configured to meet end-users’ security needs is a key driver of our success. We accomplish this with:



•Our extensive and versatile product portfolio, combined with our deep expertise, which enables us to deliver the right products and solutions to meet diverse security and functional specifications;

•Our consultative approach and expertise, which enables us to develop the most efficient and appropriate building security and access-control specifications to fulfill the unique needs of our end-users and their partners, including architects, contractors, home-builders and engineers; and

•Our operational excellence capabilities, including our global manufacturing operations and agile supply chain, which facilitate our ability to deliver specific product and system configurations to end-users worldwide, quickly and efficiently.



Based on information derived from third party sources, we estimate that the size of the global markets we serve was more than $30 billion in revenue in 2013, comprised of $25 billion for mechanical hardware and electronic security  products and more than $5 billion for time, attendance, and workforce productivity systems and systems integration. We believe that the security products industry will benefit from several global macroeconomic and long-term demographic trends, including:

•recovery of construction markets in key North American markets

•heightened awareness of security requirements,

•increased global urbanization, and

•the shift to a digital, interconnected environment.



In the more established economies of North America and Europe, the security products industry’s compound annual growth rate was 1 to 2% per year due to the challenging economy experienced over the past three years. We believe our markets are poised for a significant cyclical recovery driven in part by accelerating growth in the underlying commercial and residential construction markets. Annual market revenue growth in emerging economies exceeded 5% over the past three years, supported by strong demand in China, the Middle East and other developing economies. Additionally, we expect growth in the global electronic product categories we serve to outperform the security products industry as end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities.



We operate in three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East, India and Africa ("EMEIA"); and Asia Pacific. We sell our products and solutions under the following brands:











Allegion Brands(listed alphabetically for each region)Product CategoryAmericasEMEIAAsia PacificLocks/Locksets/Key SystemsDoor Closers and Controls/Exit DevicesElectronic Products and Access Control Systems, including Time, Attendance and Workforce Productivity and Video Analytics SystemsDoors and Door FramesOther Accessories









AmericasEMEIAAsia PacificOther Accessories (continued)



We sell a wide range of security products and solutions for end-users in commercial, institutional and residential facilities worldwide, including into the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. Our strategic brands are Schlage®, Von Duprin®, LCN®, CISA® and Interflex®. We believe Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN hold the No. 1 position in their primary product categories in North America and CISA and Interflex hold the No.1 or No. 2 position in their primary product categories in certain European markets.



For the year endedDecember 31, 2013, we generated revenues of$2,093.5 millionand operating income of$235.8 million.



Revenue By Geographic DestinationRevenue By Product Category



History and Developments



Allegion plc was incorporated in Ireland on May 9, 2013, to hold Ingersoll Rand’s commercial and residential security businesses. On December 1, 2013, Allegion became a stand-alone public company after Ingersoll Rand completed the separation of these businesses from the rest of Ingersoll Rand via the transfer of these businesses from Ingersoll Rand to Allegion and the issuance by Allegion of ordinary shares directly to Ingersoll Rand’s shareholders (the "Spin-off").  Our security businesses have long and distinguished operating histories. Several of our brands were established more than 75 years ago, and many of our brands originally created their categories:



•Von Duprin, established in 1908, was awarded the first exit device patent;

•Schlage, established in 1920, was awarded the first patents granted for the cylindrical lock and the push button lock;

•LCN, established in 1926, created the first door closure;

•CISA, established in 1926, devised the first electronically controlled lock; and

•Steelcraft Doors, established in 1927, developed the first mass-produced hollow metal door in 1942.



We have built upon these founding legacies since our entry into the security products market through the acquisition of Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN in 1974. Today, we continue to develop and introduce innovative and market-leading products. Recent examples include: Schlage Touchscreen Deadbolt, a residential lock; CISA eSigno, a hotel locking platform; eVayo, a European electronics security platform (winner, 2012 reddot product design award); Von Duprin Concealed Vertical Cable System that significantly reduces total installation time and ongoing maintenance requirements; aptiQ, a versatile and multi-technology card reader platform; and Schlage’s AD/CO, an electronic locking platform that allows end-users to add additional features without lock replacement.











Our Strengths



Our competitive strengths derive from combining application expertise and a sophisticated understanding of our markets with knowledge of our end-user’s needs and our operational excellence capabilities. We define operational excellence as our lean manufacturing operations, specifically our ability to handle highly complex manufacturing efficiently; our agile supply chain; and our ongoing programs that drive continuous improvements in our products and services. Our competitive strengths include:



Expertise required to design custom-configured solutions for our end-users.



The functional needs, regulatory requirements and aesthetics of every door opening and the related room must be considered when determining their security requirements. As a result, no “standard” opening exists. Through our long operating history, we have developed the expertise required to address a wide range of entryway security needs. Today, we believe we are a leader in our markets because:



•We combine product breadth and depth with aesthetics and functionality.We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of mechanical and electronic products to meet the needs of our end-users, including products in a broad range of styles and colors with a variety of specific functionalities. For example, we can deliver more than 70 million unique configurations of our Von Duprin exit devices for our end-users and we generally ship any sized order within one week from receipt of the order.

•We have deep building code expertise.Most of the markets we serve have complex national, regional and local building codes and standard-making bodies that require end-users to adhere to specific safety requirements. Our long history provides us with a depth of experience that allows us to identify and deliver the right security solutions that meet these requirements and the end-user’s particular needs. We employ global teams of specification writers who work with end-users, architects, contractors and distribution partners to design solutions tailored to their unique needs while meeting the applicable building codes and standards.

•We have a versatile, advanced electronic products offering.Our portfolio of products and solutions positions us favorably as the security products industry becomes increasingly electronic. We offer wireless access and biometric access control solutions, electro-magnetic locks, electric latches and automatic door openers, in addition to numerous other supporting components. Our electronics strategy includes designing products that employ interoperable, non-proprietary technologies, which we believe provide end-users with a level of flexibility they prefer. For instance, Schlage’s AD-series electronic lock employs open architecture that is compatible with nearly any existing access-control software system.



Diversified portfolio of market-leading brands.



Many of our brands have established leadership positions in their markets and product categories and have long-standing reputations for innovation and quality. Several of our brands created their respective product categories, including Schlage (cylindrical locks), Von Duprin (exit devices), LCN (door closures) and CISA (electrically controlled locks). We believe that our Schlage locks, Von Duprin exit devices and LCN closures rank No. 1 in their respective categories in North America and CISA security products rank No. 1 in its product category in Italy. We also believe that many other of our brands rank No. 2 or No. 3 in their respective geographies, including Kryptonite (U.S.), Bricard (France), Briton (United Kingdom), and Interflex (Germany). The strength of these brands in their primary geographies has allowed us to extend many of them into new markets. We sell products under more than 25 brand names around the world. We believe that employing specific brands in targeted markets creates strong relationships with those brands. Ten of our brands have at least $50 million in revenue.



Long history of delivering innovative and high-quality products and solutions.



We have built upon our brand-creation heritage and strong reputation for innovation by continually improving our award-winning product lines and introducing new mechanical and electronic security products. We employ several hundred engineers around the world who work to support and build upon our existing product portfolio. Our ongoing investment in innovation has led to several recent product launches that exemplify our success. For example, we introduced:



•in 2013, the launch of the Schlage CO-220 classroom remote lockdown lock;

•in 2013, the launch of aptiQmobile virtual credential platform, enabling use of smart phones for access control;

•in 2013, Schlage Touchscreen Deadbolt lock, designed for the home that combines stylish design with high-quality functionality, including alarm and motion detection capabilities;

•in 2013, our CISA eSigno hospitality platform that allows hotel owners to choose easily between different product types compatible with a single modular platform;

•in 2013, our CISA Multi-top Pro platform, a modular mechanical and electronic high security locking platform for glass doors;









•in 2012, our Interflex eVayo platform, an award-winning platform of access control and time and attendance reader terminals;

•in 2012, our innovative Von Duprin concealed vertical cable platform that enables shorter installation time and simplifies maintenance; and

•in 2012, our aptiQ credential and reader platform that allows end-users to use a single product family globally while also enabling the utilization of magnetic stripe, proximity and smart card credentials.



Operational excellence capabilities that enable a highly variable product mix while meeting exacting customer-delivery timetables.



The successful design and completion of any door opening solution requires close coordination among the end-user, the installer and the manufacturer. Larger projects, which involve thousands of different parts and precise end-user specifications, amplify this complexity because supply must meet demanding construction timetables.



Our global manufacturing scale, experience and operational capabilities enable us to deliver a high-quality end-user experience. We operate 19 production facilities worldwide and primarily manufacture our products and systems in regions of use to deliver them on a timely basis. For several product lines, including Schlage,Von Duprin and LCN, we ship our products, on average, in less than one week from receipt of an order, regardless of configuration. Our operational capabilities enable us to better meet our end-user's needs by allowing us to make rapid production adjustments. We believe our operational excellence program is an important element of our ability to deliver strong financial performance and to continue to reinvest in our growth initiatives.



Our comprehensive operational excellence program focuses on further reducing the time required from order to shipment. In the six production facilities that implemented this program by the end of 2012, cycle time (from receipt of a customer order to shipment) has decreased by an average of more than 45% since program launch. We are in the advanced stages of introducing our operational excellence program in virtually all of our production facilities. We also will continue to leverage and enhance this program across our other locations and work processes, while customizing those processes to best fit our business needs. We expect the results to drive cost savings throughout our business and will utilize these proceeds to either improve profitability or reinvest in our growth initiatives.



Robust network of value-added channel and distribution relationships.



We sell our products through diverse distribution and retail channels ranging from specialty distribution to wholesalers. We also have built a strong network of more than 7,000 channel partners that help our end-users find the right solutions for their needs. Important to the success of these relationships, we support our partners by working directly with architects, contractors and security consultants to help design solutions that meet the functional, regulatory and aesthetic needs of end-users. We educate our channel partners and our end-users on our "total cost of ownership" value proposition, which emphasizes the quality and durability of our products. These consultative relationships result in increased knowledge and appreciation for the benefits of our products and solutions.



Deep and action-oriented customer insight.



Within the residential security products market, understanding consumer needs and trends is key to ongoing revenue growth. We have developed tools and work with third-party vendors, such as Vista Information Systems and Retail Solutions, Inc., to better understand consumer buying patterns, purchase drivers and brand performance. We use our customer insights to develop targeted marketing programs and merchandising activities that maximize return on investment, anticipate long-term consumer trends and drive product development decisions. We also have long-standing relationships with key retailers in North America and Europe such as The Home Depot, Lowes and Leroy Merlin. Due to our brand leadership positions and investments in market insight, detailed account resources and on-going collaboration with these retailers, we provide category leadership in development and execution on mutually beneficial marketing programs.



Strong financial performance and cash generation capabilities.



We have maintained strong operating profit margins and cash flow generation despite challenging economic conditions in some of our largest geographic markets in recent years. From 2008 to 2012, for example, new build square footage in the U.S. non-residential construction market declined 46%. During that time, our operating margin increased 0.5% to 18.0% (excluding non-cash impairment charges recorded in 2008) despite a total revenue decline of $367.3 million. In2013, our operating margin was11.3%(18.0% excluding a non-cash goodwill impairment charge) and we generated$223.9 millionmillion of operating cash flow from operations.











Our Strategies



We intend to achieve sustained, profitable growth in the markets we serve today and in adjacent product categories by being the preferred, trusted security partners to our end-users, and by executing the following growth strategies:



Expand in core markets



With leadership positions in our markets and significant expertise, we possess insight into both end-user needs and regulatory requirements in key market segments, including education (university and primary), healthcare, government, general commercial and residential (single and multi-family). We have developed specific value propositions across these segments and will continue to leverage our knowledge and experience to identify key opportunities that better serve our end-users. We expect this to include continued investment in products as well as further expansion of our specification and service capabilities.



Innovation in existing and new product categories



End-users are shifting gradually toward the electronic control of their security products and solutions. We believe that electronic-related product sales are growing at nearly twice the rate of traditional mechanical solutions. According to IMS Research, we are the No. 1 global manufacturer and marketer of electro-magnetic locks. We intend to leverage this position and expand our global capabilities in other product categories through continued product development and investments. Our recent successes serve as a testament to our commitment: the 2012 launch of aptiQ (global credential and reader platform) and the corresponding aptiQ Alliance program, a program that allows our end-users to use our aptiQ products in third party non-access control applications such as logical access, parking and payment; the European launches of eVayo and our CISA hospitality platforms in 2012 and 2013, respectively, and the 2013 launch of the Schlage Touchscreen Deadbolt, a "2013 Product of the Year" byElectronic Housemagazine.



Growth in emerging markets



We believe the global security products market provides a multitude of future growth opportunities as safety demands increase and security requirements and sophistication levels evolve. We also believe economically developing markets will grow faster than the global market average as countries achieve enhanced living standards and experience continued urbanization. We believe our significant industry experience, deep knowledge of commercial and residential building codes and history of innovation give us unique opportunities to help shape the security products industry in these markets. We are committed to investing further in attractive developing markets, including opening additional sales and specifications offices; investing in localized product and supply chain capabilities; and working with local partners and code-making bodies to promote efficient and consistent safety and security standards. We have a proven history of entering developing markets successfully, as evidenced by our growing Asia-Pacific sales. Since 2010, we have generated a compound annual revenue growth rate of nearly 15% in China. We also founded the Safety and Security Institute in China, which helps to educate government officials, architects and builders and also advocates for consistent building codes and standards that address end-users' safety and security.



Operational excellence



The foundation of the process improvement at Allegion is rooted in the Allegion Business System and our Operational Excellence (OpEx) initiatives. We are driving OpEx across the enterprise, and we link our OpEx work to specific business growth opportunities while simultaneously improving internal processes.



Our approach to the deployment of OpEx begins with gaining an understanding of what customers value. Once there is an understanding of the customer's needs and our value proposition, each team responsible for a process under transformation works on activities to create value that differentiates us from our competition. We are in the process of introducing our OpEx program in many of our processes. As we execute the Allegion Business System and our OpEx activities, we attempt to deliver increased value to our customers while also drive improvement to internal processes.



As part of our OpEx program, we have reduced overall supply chain cycle time and variability across production locations that have launched the program. Our ability to deliver highly configured solutions to end-users within exacting timeframes is one important element of our success. Results in 2013 have included reductions in product lead times from customer order to shipment in our manufacturing facilities in Baja, Mexico and Indianapolis, Indiana. Our strategy involves leveraging our operational excellence capabilities as a competitive advantage to improve the overall customer experience and drive employee engagement - ultimately driving growth across all of our offerings.











Opportunistic acquisitions



A disciplined approach to acquisitions is an important part of our growth strategy. The security products industry is highly fragmented, particularly in developing markets and emerging technology product segments that employ newer technologies. This creates numerous acquisition opportunities. We intend to target acquisitions that will broaden our product portfolio, expand our geographic footprint and enhance our position in strategic market segments.

On January 2, 2014, our wholly-owned subsidiary Allegion de Colombia completed the acquisition of certain assets of Schlage Lock de Colombia S.A., the second largest mechanical lock manufacturer in that country. The acquisition of certain assets of the privately-owned company, which has distribution in other South and Central American countries, will enable us to leverage our branded residential and commercial product lines to grow our presence in the Spanish-speaking South American security market.



We now operate a 45,000-square-foot integrated plant in Bogota, Colombia and will continue to sell product under the Schlage brand, as well as the Inafer and Segurex brands. Allegion de Colombia has approximately 350 employees.



Industry and Competition



Based on information derived from third party sources, we estimate that the size of the global markets we serve was more than $30 billion in revenue in 2013, comprised of $25 billion for mechanical  hardware and electronic security products and more than $5 billion for time, attendance, and workforce productivity systems and systems integration, with compound annual growth of about 1 to 2% per year over the past three years.  This growth rate primarily reflects cyclical challenges in the commercial and residential construction markets throughout North America and Europe as certain developing economies experienced higher growth rates during this period. Additionally, growth in electronic security products and solutions continues to outperform the industry as a whole as end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities. We expect the security products industry will benefit from favorable long-term demographic trends such as continued urbanization of the global population, increased concerns about safety and security and technology-driven innovation.



The security products markets are highly competitive and fragmented throughout the world, with a number of large multi-national companies and thousands of smaller regional and local companies. This high fragmentation primarily reflects local regulatory requirements and highly variable end-user needs.  We believe our principal global competitors are Assa Abloy AB, DORMA Holding GmbH, Kaba Holding AG, and Stanley Black & Decker Inc. We also face competition in various markets and product categories throughout the world, including from Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. in the North American residential market.  As we move into more technologically-advanced product categories, we may also compete against smaller, more specialized competitors.



Our success depends on a variety of factors, including brand and reputation, product breadth, quality and delivery capabilities, price and service capabilities.  As many of our businesses sell through wholesale distribution, our success also depends on building and partnering with a strong channel network.  Although price often serves as an important customer decision criterion, we also compete based on the breadth and quality of our products and solutions, our ability to custom-configure solutions to meet individual end-user requirements and our global supply chain.



Our Reporting Segments



We manufacture and sell mechanical and electronic security products and solutions in approximately 130 countries, with our top 20 countries accounting for about 97% of our$2,093.5 millionin 2013 revenues.  We report our operating results through three reporting segments: Americas, EMEIA and Asia Pacific.



The following table presents the relative percentages of total segment revenue attributable to each reporting segment for each of the last three fiscal years. See Note 21, “Business Segment Information,” to our annual combined and consolidated financial statements for information regarding net revenues, operating income, and total assets by reportable segment:



For the Years Ended December 31,201320122011Americas73%72%69%EMEIA20%21%24%Asia Pacific7%7%7%











Our Americas segment provides security products and solutions in approximately 30 countries throughout North America and parts of South America. The segment offers a broad range of products and solutions including locks, locksets, key systems, door closers, exit devices, doors and door frames, electronic product and access control systems to end-users in the commercial, institutional and residential markets, including into the education, healthcare, government, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. This segment’s strategic brands are Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN.



Our EMEIA segment provides security products and solutions in approximately 85 countries throughout Europe, the Middle East, India and Africa. The segment offers the same portfolio of products as the Americas segment, as well as time and attendance and workforce productivity solutions. This segment’s strategic brands are CISA and Interflex.  This segment also resells Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN products, primarily in the Middle East.



Our Asia Pacific segment provides security products and solutions in approximately 14 countries throughout Asia Pacific. The segment offers the same portfolio of products as the Americas segment, as well as video analytics solutions. This segment’s strategic brands are Schlage, CISA, Von Duprin and LCN.



Products and Services



We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of mechanical and electronic security products across a range of market-leading brands:



•Locks, locksets and key systems: A broad array of tubular and mortise door locksets, security levers, and master key systems that are used to protect and control access.  We also offer a range of portable security products, including bicycle, small vehicle and travel locks.

•Door closers and exit devices: An extensive portfolio of life-safety products generally installed on fire doors and facility entrances and exits.  Door closers are devices that automatically close doors after they are opened.  Exit devices are generally horizontal attachments to doors and enable rapid exit from the premises.

•Electronic Security Products and Access Control Systems: A broad range of electrified locks, door closers, exit devices, access control systems, biometric hand reader systems, key card and reader systems, accessories, and automatic doors.

•Time, Attendance and Workforce Productivity Systems: Products and services designed to help business customers manage and monitor workforce access control parameters, attendance and employee scheduling.  We offer ongoing aftermarket services in addition to design and installation offerings.

•Video Analytics: Electronic video analytics systems and services, primarily for business and government customers in Asia Pacific.  We offer ongoing aftermarket services in addition to design and installation offerings.

•Doors and Door Frames: A portfolio of hollow metal doors and door frames.  In select geographies, we also provide installation and service maintenance services.

•Other Accessories: A variety of additional security and product components, including hinges, door levers, door stops and other accessories, as well as certain bathroom fittings products.



Customers



We sell most of our products and solutions through distribution and retail channels, ranging from specialty distribution to wholesalers. We have built a network of more than 7,000 channel partners that help our customers choose the right solution to meet their security needs.  Our channel partners that sell to commercial and institutional end-users helped fulfill and install orders to more than 30,000 end-users in 2013. We also sell through a variety of retail channels, ranging from large do-it-yourself home improvement centers to small, specialty showroom outlets. We work with our retail partners on developing marketing and merchandising strategies to maximize their sales per square foot of shelf space.



Through our Interflex and China-based video and systems integration businesses, we provide products and solutions directly to end-users.



Our 10 largest customers represented approximately 25% of our combined revenues in 2013. No single customer represented 10% or more of our combined revenues in 2013.



Sales and Marketing



In markets where we sell through commercial and institutional distribution channels, we employ sales professionals around the world who work with a combination of end-users, security professionals, architects, contractors, engineers and distribution partners to develop specific custom-configured solutions for our end-users’ needs.  Our field sales professionals are assisted by specification









writers who work with architects, engineers and consultants to help design door openings and security systems to meet end-users’ functional, aesthetic and regulatory requirements.  Both groups are supported by dedicated customer care and technical sales-support specialists worldwide. We also support our sales efforts with a variety of marketing efforts, including trade-specific advertising, cooperative distributor merchandising, digital marketing, and marketing at a variety of industry trade shows.



In markets in which we sell through retail and home-builder distribution channels, we have teams of sales, merchandising and marketing professionals who help drive brand and product awareness through our channel partners and to consumers.  We utilize a variety of advertising and marketing strategies, including traditional consumer media, retail merchandising, digital marketing, retail promotions, and builder and consumer trade shows, to support these teams.



We also work actively with several regulatory bodies around the world to help promote effective and consistent safety and security standards.  For example, we are members of Builders Hardware Manufacturers Association, Security Industry Association, Smart Card Alliance, American Society of Healthcare Engineering, American Institute of Architects, Construction Specification Institute, ASSOFERMA (Italy), BHE (Germany) and UNIQ (France).  We also have established the Safety and Security Institute in China, which helps to educate government officials, architects and builders and advocates for consistent building codes and standards that address end-users’ safety and security.



Production and Distribution



We manufacture our products in our geographic markets around the world.  We operate 19 production facilities, including 10 in the Americas region, seven in EMEIA and two in Asia Pacific.  We own 10 of these facilities and lease the others.  Our strategy is to produce in the region of use, wherever appropriate, to allow us to be closer to the end-user and increase efficiency and more timely product delivery.



In managing our network of production facilities, we focus on eliminating excess capacity, reducing cycle time through productivity, and harmonizing production practices and safety procedures.



We distribute our products through a broad network of channel partners.  In addition, third-party logistics providers perform storage and distribution services for us to support certain parts of our distribution network.



Raw Materials



We support our region-of-use production strategy with corresponding region-of-use supplier partners, where available.  Our global and regional commodity teams work with production leadership, product management and materials management teams to ensure adequate materials are available for production at the lowest possible cost.



We purchase a wide range of raw materials, including steel, zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals, to support our production facilities.  Where appropriate, we may enter into long-term supply arrangements or fixed-cost contracts to lower overall costs.  We do not believe the loss of any particular supplier would be material to our business.



Intellectual Property



Intellectual property, inclusive of certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, is important to our business.  We create, protect and enforce our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways.  We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to try to ensure the protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights.    We use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that such distinctive marks are an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us and in distinguishing our products from others. We consider our Schlage, Von Duprin, CISA and other associated trademarks to be among our most valuable assets, and we have registered these trademarks in a number of countries. Although certain proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we do not believe we are materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses.



Facilities



We operate through a broad network of sales offices, 19 production facilities and several distribution centers throughout the world.  Our active properties represent about 5.1 million square feet, of which approximately 49% is leased.











The following table shows the location of our worldwide production facilities:

Production FacilitiesAmericasEMEIAAsia PacificBlue Ash, OhioDurchhausen, GermanyAuckland, New ZealandBogota, ColombiaDuzce, TurkeyJinshan, ChinaCaracas, VenezuelaFaenza, ItalyChino, CaliforniaFeuquieres, FranceEnsenada, MexicoRenchen, GermanyIndianapolis, IndianaMonsampolo, ItalyPrinceton, IllinoisSittingbourne, EnglandSecurity, ColoradoTecate, MexicoTijuana, Mexico



Research and Development

We are committed to investing in highly productive research and development capabilities, particularly in electro-mechanical systems.  Our research and development ("R&D") expenditures were approximately $39.6 million, $38.2 millionand $38.9 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively.



We concentrate on developing technology innovations that will deliver growth through the introduction of new products and solutions, and also on driving continuous improvements in product cost, quality, safety and sustainability.



We manage our R&D team as a global group with an emphasis on a global collaborative approach to identify and develop new technologies and worldwide product platforms. We are organized on a regional basis to leverage expertise in local standards and configurations.  In addition to regional engineering centers in each geographic region, we also operate a global engineering center of excellence in Bangalore, India.



Seasonality



Our business experiences seasonality that varies by product line. Because more construction and do-it-yourself projects occur during the second and third calendar quarters of each year in the Northern Hemisphere, our security product sales, typically, are higher in those quarters than in the first and fourth calendar quarters. However, our Interflex and Asia Pacific systems integration businesses typically experience higher sales in the fourth calendar quarter due to project timing. Revenue by quarter for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 are as follows:

First QuarterSecond QuarterThird QuarterFourth Quarter201323%25%26%26%201223%25%25%27%201123%26%26%26%



Employees



As of December 31, 2013, we had more than 8,000 employees, approximately 20% of whom have the terms of their employment covered under collective bargaining agreements. Our non-management European employees are represented by national and local works councils.



Environmental Regulation

We are dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities.









We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and similar state authorities. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites. For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal.

In estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties’ financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future.



We incurred $2.1 million, $2.9 million, and$1.9 millionof expenses during the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012, and2011, respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. As ofDecember 31, 2013and2012, we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $10.8 millionand $11.8 million, respectively.  Of these amounts $2.9 millionand $2.5 million, respectively, relate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us.  Our total current environmental reserve atDecember 31, 2013and2012was $4.2 millionand $2.3 million, respectively. Given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain.



Available Information



We are required to file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov.



In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as future quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website(http://www.allegion.com)as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Board of Directors of the Company has also adopted and posted in the About Allegion section of the Company’s website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees. The contents of the Company’s website are not incorporated by reference in this report.





