10-K


d10k.htm

BANK OF AMERICA FORM 10-K

Bank of America Form 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December
31, 2002 – Commission File Number 1-6523

Bank of America Corporation

(Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

(State of incorporation)

56-0906609

(IRS Employer Identification No.)

Bank of America Corporate Center

Charlotte, North Carolina

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

704.386.8486

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:    NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

X

No  __

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or in any amendment to this Form 10-K.

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).  Yes

x

No

¨

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock
(“Common Stock”) held by non-affiliates is approximately $104,445,920,505 (based on the June 28, 2002 closing price of Common Stock of $70.36  per share). As of February 28, 2003, there were 1,502,368,612 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document of the Registrant

Form 10-K Reference Locations

Portions of the 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders

Portions of the 2003 Proxy Statement

PARTS I, II and IV

PART III

PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

General

Bank of America
Corporation (the “Corporation”) is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The principal executive offices of the Corporation are located in the Bank of America
Corporate Center, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.

Primary
Market Areas

Through its banking
subsidiaries (the “Banks”) and various nonbanking subsidiaries, the Corporation provides a diversified range of banking and nonbanking financial services and products, primarily throughout the Mid-Atlantic (Maryland, Virginia and the
District of Columbia), the Midwest (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas and Missouri), the Southeast (Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee), the Southwest (Arizona, Arkansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas), the Northwest (Oregon and
Washington) and the West (California, Idaho and Nevada) regions of the United States and in selected international markets. Management believes that these are desirable regions in which to be located. Based on the most recent available data,
personal income levels in the states in these regions as a whole rose 3.5 percent year-to-year through the third quarter of 2002, compared to growth of 3.3 percent in the rest of the United States. In addition, the population in these states as a
whole rose an estimated 1.5 percent between 2001 and 2002, compared to growth of 0.9 percent in the rest of the United States. Through December 2002, the average rate of unemployment in these states was 4.9 percent, ranging from Virginia’s 3.9
percent to Oregon’s 7.0 percent, compared to a rate of unemployment of 5.5 percent in the rest of the United States. The number of housing permits authorized at year-end 2002 was 12.3% higher compared to year-end 2001.

The Corporation has the leading bank deposit market share
position in California, Florida, Maryland and Washington. In addition, the Corporation ranks second in terms of bank deposit market share in Arizona, Kansas, Missouri, New Mexico, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas; third in Arkansas, Georgia,
Nevada and the District of Columbia; fourth in Idaho, Oregon and Virginia; fifth in Oklahoma and Tennessee; seventh in Iowa; and thirteenth in Illinois.

Acquisition and Disposition Activity

As part of its operations, the Corporation regularly evaluates the potential acquisition of, and holds discussions with, various financial
institutions and other businesses of a type eligible for financial holding company ownership or control. In addition, the Corporation regularly analyzes the values of, and submits bids for, the acquisition of customer-based funds and other
liabilities and assets of such financial institutions and other businesses. The Corporation also regularly considers the potential disposition of certain of its assets, branches, subsidiaries or lines of businesses. As a general rule, the
Corporation publicly announces any material acquisitions or dispositions when a definitive agreement has been reached.

Government Supervision and Regulation

The following discussion describes elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial
holding companies and banks and specific information about the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Federal regulation of banks, bank holding companies and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Bank
Insurance Fund rather than for the protection of stockholders and creditors.

General

As a registered bank holding company and financial holding company, the Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve
Board”). The Banks are organized as national banking associations, which are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “Comptroller” or “OCC”), the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), the Federal Reserve Board and other federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, the Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates
are subject to various other laws and regulations and


supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of the
Corporation and its ability to make distributions to stockholders.

A financial holding company, and the companies under its control, are permitted to engage in activities considered “financial in nature” as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Federal Reserve Board
interpretations (including, without limitation, insurance and securities activities), and therefore may engage in a broader range of activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. A financial holding company may engage
directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature, either de novo or by acquisition, provided the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve Board after-the-fact notice of the new activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
also permits national banks, such as the Banks, to engage in activities considered financial in nature through a financial subsidiary, subject to certain conditions and limitations and with the approval of the Comptroller.

Interstate Banking

Bank holding companies (including bank holding companies that
also are financial holding companies) also are required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring more than five percent of any class of voting stock of any non-affiliated bank. Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate
Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Interstate Banking and Branching Act”), a bank holding company may acquire banks located in states other than its home state without regard to the permissibility of such acquisitions under
state law, but subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company, after the proposed acquisition, controls no
more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state.

Subject to certain restrictions, the Interstate Banking and
Branching Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines to create interstate banks. The Interstate Banking and Branching Act also permits a bank to open new branches in a state in which it does not already have banking operations if such
state enacts a law permitting de novo branching. The Corporation has consolidated its retail subsidiary banks into a single interstate bank (Bank of America, N.A.), headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, with full service branch offices in 21
states and the District of Columbia. In addition, the Corporation operates a nationally chartered credit card bank (Bank of America, N.A. (USA)), headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona, and three nationally chartered bankers’ banks: Bank of America
Oregon, N.A., headquartered in Portland, Oregon; Bank of America California, N.A., headquartered in San Francisco, California; and Bank of America Georgia, N.A., headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.

Changes in Regulations

Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the
banking industry are frequently introduced in Congress, in the state legislatures and before the various bank regulatory agencies. The likelihood and timing of any proposals or legislation and the impact they might have on the Corporation and its
subsidiaries cannot be determined at this time.

Capital and Operational Requirements

The Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller and the FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to United States banking organizations. In addition, these regulatory agencies may from
time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels, whether because of its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. The Federal Reserve Board risk-based guidelines define a three-tier capital
framework. Tier 1 capital includes common shareholders’ equity and qualifying preferred stock, less goodwill and other adjustments. Tier 2 capital consists of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1 capital, mandatory convertible debt, limited
amounts of subordinated debt, other qualifying term debt and the allowance for credit losses up to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets. Tier 3 capital includes subordinated debt that is unsecured, fully paid, has an original maturity of at least
two years, is not redeemable before maturity without prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board and includes a lock-in clause precluding payment of either interest or principal if the payment would cause the issuing bank’s risk-based capital
ratio to fall or remain below the required


minimum. The sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital less investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries represents the Corporation’s qualifying
total capital. Risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing Tier 1 and total capital by risk-weighted assets. Assets and off-balance sheet exposures are assigned to one of four categories of risk-weights, based primarily on relative credit
risk. The minimum Tier 1 capital ratio is four percent and the minimum total capital ratio is eight percent. The Corporation’s Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios under these guidelines at December 31, 2002 were 8.22 percent and 12.43
percent, respectively. At December 31, 2002, the Corporation had no subordinated debt that qualified as Tier 3 capital.

The leverage ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted average total assets. Although the stated minimum ratio is 100 to
200 basis points above three percent, banking organizations are required to maintain a ratio of at least five percent to be classified as well capitalized. The Corporation’s leverage ratio at December 31, 2002 was 6.29 percent. The Corporation
meets its leverage ratio requirement.

The
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insured depository institutions (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly
undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized) and requires the respective federal regulatory agencies to implement systems for “prompt corrective action” for insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements
within such categories. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category in which an institution is classified. Failure to meet the capital guidelines could also
subject a banking institution to capital raising requirements. An “undercapitalized” bank must develop a capital restoration plan and its parent holding company must guarantee that bank’s compliance with the plan. The liability of the
parent holding company under any such guarantee is limited to the lesser of five percent of the bank’s assets at the time it became “undercapitalized” or the amount needed to comply with the plan. Furthermore, in the event of the
bankruptcy of the parent holding company, such guarantee would take priority over the parent’s general unsecured creditors. In addition, FDICIA requires the various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards for safety and
soundness relating generally to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a financial institution that does not meet such standards.

The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially
similar regulations that define the five capital categories identified by FDICIA, using the total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish various degrees
of corrective action to be taken when an institution is considered undercapitalized. Under the regulations, a “well capitalized” institution must have a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least six percent, a total risk-based capital
ratio of at least ten percent and a leverage ratio of at least five percent and not be subject to a capital directive order. Under these guidelines, each of the Banks was considered well capitalized as of December 31, 2002.

Regulators also must take into consideration (a)
concentrations of credit risk; (b) interest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution’s assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its off-balance-sheet position); and (c) risks from non-traditional
activities, as well as an institution’s ability to manage those risks, when determining the adequacy of an institution’s capital. This evaluation will be made as a part of the institution’s regular safety and soundness examination. In
addition, the Corporation, and any Bank with significant trading activity, must incorporate a measure for market risk in their regulatory capital calculations.

Distributions

The Corporation’s funds for cash distributions to its stockholders are derived from a variety of sources, including cash and
temporary investments. The primary source of such funds, and funds used to pay principal and interest on its indebtedness, is dividends received from the Banks. Each of the Banks is subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to
the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or bank
holding company that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof.


In addition,
the ability of the Corporation and the Banks to pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards established under FDICIA, as described above. The right of the Corporation, its
stockholders and its creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries.

Source of Strength

According to Federal Reserve Board policy, bank holding
companies are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such
support. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC – either as a result of default of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC
assistance provided to a subsidiary in danger of default – the other Banks may be assessed for the FDIC’s loss, subject to certain exceptions.

Competition

The activities in which the Corporation and its four business segments (Consumer and Commercial Banking, Asset Management, Global
Corporate and Investment Banking, and Equity Investments) engage are highly competitive. Generally, the lines of activity and markets served involve competition with other banks, thrifts, credit unions and other nonbank financial institutions, such
as investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies and insurance companies. The Corporation also competes against banks and thrifts owned by nonregulated diversified corporations and other entities which
offer financial services, located both domestically and internationally and through alternative delivery channels such as the Internet. The methods of competition center around various factors, such as customer services, interest rates on loans and
deposits, lending limits and customer convenience, such as location of offices.

The commercial banking business in the various local markets served by the Corporation’s business segments is highly competitive. The four business segments compete with other banks, thrifts,
finance companies and other businesses which provide similar services. The business segments actively compete in commercial lending activities with local, regional and international banks and nonbank financial organizations, some of which are larger
than certain of the Corporation’s nonbanking subsidiaries and the Banks. In its consumer lending operations, the competitors of the business segments include other banks, thrifts, credit unions, finance companies and other nonbank organizations
offering financial services. In the investment banking, investment advisory and brokerage business, the Corporation’s nonbanking subsidiaries compete with other banking and investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms,
investment companies, other organizations offering similar services and other investment alternatives available to investors. The Corporation’s mortgage banking units compete with banks, thrifts, government agencies, mortgage brokers and other
nonbank organizations offering mortgage banking services. In the trust business, the Banks compete with other banks, investment counselors and insurance companies in national markets for institutional funds and insurance agents, thrifts, financial
counselors and other fiduciaries for personal trust business. The Corporation and its four business segments also actively compete for funds. A primary source of funds for the Banks is deposits, and competition for deposits includes other
deposit-taking organizations, such as banks, thrifts, and credit unions, as well as money market mutual funds.

The Corporation’s ability to expand into additional states remains subject to various federal and state laws. See “Government
Supervision and Regulation – General” for a more detailed discussion of interstate banking and branching legislation and certain state legislation.

Employees

As of December 31, 2002, there were 133,944 full-time equivalent employees within the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Of the foregoing
employees, 82,003 were employed within Consumer and Commercial Banking, 6,471 were employed within Asset Management, 6,965 were employed within Global Corporate and Investment Banking and 194 were employed within Equity Investments. The remainder
were employed elsewhere within the Corporation and its subsidiaries.


None of the
domestic employees within the Corporation is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers its employee relations to be good.

Additional Information

The following information set forth in the Corporation’s 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders (the “2002 Annual Report”) is
incorporated herein by reference: Business Segment Operations (pages 30 through 36, and 107 through 109), Net Interest Income (pages 26, 28, 58 and 59), Securities (pages 51, 79 and 84 through 85), Outstanding Loans and Leases (pages 41 through 49,
51, 59, 80 through 81 and 88 through 89), Deposits (pages 38 through 39 and 93), Short-Term Borrowings (pages 60 and 93), Trading Liabilities (page 86), Market Risk Management (pages 49   through 53), Liquidity Risk Management (pages 37
through 41) and Performance by Geographic Area (page 111).

Item 2. PROPERTIES

As of
December 31, 2002, the principal offices of the Corporation and each of its business segments were located in the 60-story Bank of America Corporate Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is owned by a subsidiary of the Corporation. The
Corporation occupies approximately 505,000 square feet and leases approximately 530,000 square feet to third parties at market rates, which represents substantially all of the space in this facility. In addition to this facility, the Corporation
also leases or owns a significant amount of space worldwide. As of December 31, 2002, the Corporation and its subsidiaries owned or leased approximately 11,200 locations in 42 states, the District of Columbia and 30 foreign countries.

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation and its
subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and threatened legal actions and proceedings, including actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants. In certain of these actions and proceedings, claims for
substantial monetary damages are asserted against the Corporation and its subsidiaries and certain of these actions and proceedings are based on alleged violations of consumer protection, securities, environmental, banking and other laws.

In view of the inherent difficulty of
predicting the outcome of such matters, the Corporation cannot state what the eventual outcome of pending matters will be. However, based on current knowledge, management does not believe that liabilities, if any, arising from pending litigation,
including the litigation described below, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, operations or liquidity of the Corporation.

D.E. Shaw Litigation.

Following the merger of NationsBank Corporation and
BankAmerica Corporation in September 1998, the Corporation and certain of its officers and directors were named as defendants in class actions brought on behalf of persons who purchased NationsBank or BankAmerica shares between August 4, 1998 and
September 30, 1998, persons who purchased shares of the Corporation between October 1 and October 13, 1998, and persons who held NationsBank or BankAmerica shares as of the merger. The claims on behalf of the purchasers and the persons who held
NationsBank shares as of the merger principally rested on the allegation that the Corporation or its predecessors failed to disclose material facts concerning a $1.4 billion financial relationship between BankAmerica Corporation and D.E. Shaw &
Co. that resulted in a $372 million charge to the Corporation’s earnings in the quarter ending September 30, 1998. The claims of the persons who held BankAmerica shares as of the merger principally rested on the allegation that the defendants
misrepresented a “takeover” of BankAmerica Corporation as a “merger of equals.”

On November 2, 2002, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri (the “Federal Court”), the Court to
which all federal actions had been transferred, entered a final judgment dismissing the actions with prejudice. The Court entered the judgment after approving a settlement providing for payment of $333.2 million to the classes of purchasers and
holders of NationsBank shares and $156.8 million to the classes of purchasers of BankAmerica and Corporation shares and holders of BankAmerica shares (all amounts to bear interest at the 90-day Treasury Bill Rate from March 6, 2002 to the date of
payment). There remain pending several actions in California that have been stayed since April 2000, when the Federal Court enjoined the plaintiffs in those actions from purporting to prosecute their claims on behalf of a class. Several class
members, including two lead plaintiffs, are appealing from the Federal Court’s judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.


Enron
Corporation Securities Litigation.

On April 8, 2002, the Corporation was named as a defendant along with, among others, commercial and investment banks, certain current and former Enron officers and directors, lawyers and
accountants in a putative consolidated class action complaint filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas alleging violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. On May 8, 2002, the Corporation filed a motion to dismiss the complaint and on December 20, 2002, the court granted the motion in part, dismissing the claims asserted under Section 10(b)
and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act. A Section 11 claim on a single securities offering remains pending against the Corporation.

In addition, other Enron-related individual and class actions have been filed against the Corporation and certain of its affiliates, based
upon its role as underwriter of certain Enron debt or equity offerings, along with other investment banks and other parties. The complaints generally assert claims under federal and state securities laws, other state statutes and under common law
theories.

WorldCom, Inc. Securities
Litigation.

Banc of America Securities LLC (“BAS”) and other underwriters of WorldCom, Inc. bonds issued in 2000 and 2001 have been named as defendants in certain lawsuits alleging that the offering materials
were false and misleading. One of the lawsuits is a purported class action, filed July 10, 2002 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. On October 11, 2002, the action was superceded by the filing of a consolidated putative
class action complaint entitled In re WorldCom, Inc. Securities Litigation. This action alleges violations by the underwriters of the federal securities law, including Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 in connection with 2000 and 2001
bond offerings and is brought on behalf of purchasers and acquirers of bonds issued in or traceable to these offerings.

In addition, the Corporation or BAS, along with other underwriters, certain executives of WorldCom and WorldCom’s auditors, have also
been named as defendants in approximately eighteen individual actions that were filed in either federal or state courts beginning in July 2002 arising out of alleged accounting irregularities in the books and records of WorldCom. Plaintiffs in these
actions are typically institutional investors, including state pension funds, who purchased debt securities issued by WorldCom pursuant to public offerings in 1997, 1998, 2000 or 2001. The complaints generally assert claims under federal and state
securities laws, other state statutes and under common law theories.

Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of stockholders during the quarter ended December 31, 2002.

Item 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Pursuant to the Instructions to Form 10-K and Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, the name, age and position of each current executive officer
of the Corporation are listed below along with such officer’s business experience during the past five years. Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the meeting of directors immediately following the annual meeting of
stockholders.

Amy Woods Brinkley, age 47, Chief
Risk Officer. Ms. Brinkley was named to her present position in April 2002. From July 2001 to April 2002, she served as Chairman, Credit Policy and Deputy Corporate Risk Management Executive; from August 1999 to July 2001, she served as President,
Consumer Products; and from 1993 to August 1999, she served as Marketing Group Executive. She first became an officer in 1979. She also serves as Chief Risk Officer and a director of Bank of America, N.A.

Edward J. Brown III, age 54, President, Global Corporate and
Investment Banking. Mr. Brown was named to his present position in August 2000. From September 1998 to August 2000, he served as President, Global Capital Raising and Global Capital Markets; and from June 1997 to September 1998, he served as
President, Global Finance. He first became an officer in 1974. He also serves as President, Global Corporate and Investment Banking and a director of Bank of America, N.A.

Richard M. DeMartini, age 50, President, Asset Management. Mr. DeMartini was named to his present position in
February 2001. From January 1999 to February 2001, he served as Chairman, International Private Client Group, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter; and from March 1997 to January 1999, he served as President Individual Asset Management Group, Morgan Stanley
Dean Witter. He first became an officer in February 2001. He also serves as President, Asset Management of Bank of America, N.A.


Barbara J.
Desoer, age 50, President, Consumer Products. Ms. Desoer was named to her present position in July 2001. From September 1999 to July 2001, she served as Director of Marketing; from May 1999 to September 1999, she served as Banking Group President,
California Retail Bank; and from December 1996 to May 1999, she served as Regional Executive, California Retail Bank. She first became an officer in 1977. She also serves as President, Consumer Products and a director of Bank of America, N.A.

James H. Hance, Jr., age 58, Vice Chairman and
Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Hance was named Chief Financial Officer in August 1988, and was named Vice Chairman in October 1993. He first became an officer in 1987. He also serves as a director of the Corporation and as Vice Chairman and a director
of Bank of America, N.A.

Kenneth D. Lewis, age
55, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Lewis was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in April 2001 and President in January 1999. From October 1998 to January 1999, he served as President, Consumer and Commercial Banking;
from 1993 to October 1998, he served as President; and from October 1999 to April 2001, he served as Chief Operating Officer. He first became an officer in 1971. Mr. Lewis also serves as a director of the Corporation and as Chairman, President,
Chief Executive Officer and a director of Bank of America, N.A.

R. Eugene Taylor, age 55, President, Consumer and Commercial Banking. Mr. Taylor was named to his present position in June 2000. From February 2000 to June 2000, he served as President, Central Region; from October 1998 to June 2000,
he served as President, West Region; and from December 1997 to October 1998, he served as President, Florida. He first became an officer in 1970. He also serves as President, Consumer and Commercial Banking and a director of Bank of America, N.A.

PART II

Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S
COMMON STOCK AND RELATED  SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS

The principal market on which the Common Stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The Common Stock is also listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange, and certain shares are listed on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the periods indicated:

As of
February 28, 2003, there were 237,080 record holders of Common Stock. During 2001 and 2002, the Corporation paid dividends on the Common Stock on a quarterly basis. The following table sets forth dividends declared per share of Common Stock for the
periods indicated:

For
additional information regarding the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends, see “Government Supervision and Regulation – Distributions”. In addition, Note

15 (page 99) of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in the 2002 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA

The information set forth in Table 1
(page 27) and Table XVII (page 67) of the 2002 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information set forth under the captions
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” (pages 25 through 55) and “Report of Management” (page 70) in the 2002 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information set forth under the caption
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition-Market Risk Management” (pages 49 through 53) in the 2002 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The following
information set forth in the 2002 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference: the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries, together with the report
thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  dated January 15, 2003 (pages 71 through 111) and the Selected Quarterly Financial Data in Table XVII on page 67.

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

There were no changes in or
disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure.

PART III

Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information included under the following
captions in the Corporation’s proxy statement relating to its 2003 annual meeting of stockholders (the “2003 Proxy Statement”) is incorporated herein by reference:

•

“The Nominees” on pages 2 through 5;

•

“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” on page 8; and

•

“Special Compensation Arrangements-Employment Agreements with Certain Executive Officers” on pages 13 and 14.

Additional information required by Item 10 with respect to
executive officers is set forth in Part I, Item 4A hereof.

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information included under the following captions in the 2003 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:

•

“Director Compensation” on pages 8 and 9;

•

“Executive Compensation” on pages 9 through 13;

•

“Special Compensation Arrangements” on pages 13 and 14;

•

“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” on page 19; and

•

“Certain Transactions” on page 19.


Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Information included under the following caption in the 2003 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:.

•

“Stock Ownership” on pages 5 through 7.

Information included under Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2002 Annual Report on pages 100 through 103,
including the table on page 103 presenting equity compensation plan information, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information included under the following captions in the 2003
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference:

•

“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” on page 19; and

•

“Certain Transactions” on page 19.

Item 14. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Within the 90 days prior to the filing date of this report, the Corporation’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Based upon
that evaluation, the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective. In addition, there have been no significant changes in internal controls
or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls, subsequent to the date the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer completed their evaluation.

Disclosure controls and procedures are defined in Rule 13a-14(c) of the Exchange Act as controls and other
procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. The
Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures were designed to ensure that material information related to the Corporation, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, in a timely manner.


Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

With
the exception of the information expressly incorporated herein by reference, the 2002 Annual Report and the 2003 Proxy Statement are not to be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 3, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



Certification Pursuant to Section 302

of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

for the Chief Executive Officer

I, Kenneth D. Lewis, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Bank of America Corporation;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant, and we have:

a)

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b)

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report
(the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

Presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a)

All significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize
and report financial data and have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b)

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/    K

ENNETH

D. L

EWIS

Kenneth D. Lewis

Chief Executive Officer

March 3, 2003


Certification Pursuant to Section 302

of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

for the Chief Financial Officer

I, James H. Hance, Jr., certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Bank of America Corporation;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant, and we have:

a)

Designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b)

Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report
(the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

Presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a)

All significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize
and report financial data and have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b)

Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/    J

AMES

H. H

ANCE

,
J

R

.

James H. Hance, Jr.

Chief Financial Officer

March 3, 2003


INDEX TO EXHIBITS

E-1

E-2

E-3

E-4

*

Denotes executive compensation plan or arrangement.

E-5