
10-K
NATIONSBANK 10-K #42408.1




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
  For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1995 -- Commission File Number 1-6523
                            NATIONSBANK CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  NONE
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.
                                Yes  X  No
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or in any amendment to
this Form 10-K. ( )

Aggregate market value of shares of voting stock held by all persons, other than
shares beneficially owned by persons who may be deemed to be affiliates (as
defined in SEC Rule 405), is approximately $21,637,312,000 computed by reference
to the closing price of Common Stock of $74.00 per share on March 15, 1996, on
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions List, as reported in
published financial sources, and a stated price of $42.50 for the ESOP
Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C.

Of the registrant's only class of Common Stock, there were 300,462,332 shares
outstanding as of March 1, 1996.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



                                     PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
GENERAL
     The registrant is a North Carolina corporation and a bank holding company
registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "Act"),
with its principal assets being the stock of its subsidiaries. Through its
banking subsidiaries (the "Banks") and its various non-banking subsidiaries, the
registrant provides banking and banking-related services, primarily throughout
the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states and Texas. The principal executive offices
of the registrant are located at NationsBank Corporate Center in Charlotte,
North Carolina 28255.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS
     On March 31, 1995, the registrant's mortgage banking subsidiary acquired a
$10 billion residential mortgage servicing portfolio from Source One Mortgage
Services Corporation at a purchase price of approximately $190 million.
     On March 31, 1995, the registrant's mortgage banking subsidiary acquired
the residential mortgage servicing business of KeyCorp Mortgage Inc. from
KeyCorp and Key Bank of New York. The acquired assets included primarily a $25
billion residential mortgage servicing portfolio, for which the registrant's
subsidiary paid approximately $339 million, and a mortgage servicing operation
employing about 430 people and other servicing-related assets, for which this
subsidiary paid approximately $150 million.
     The registrant and BankAmerica Corporation formed MECA Software LLC
("MECA"), and, on June 30, 1995, MECA purchased MECA Software, Inc. and its
"Managing Your Money" software for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
$35 million. First Bank System, Fleet Financial Group and Royal Bank of Canada
subsequently joined MECA.
     On December 4, 1995, the registrant completed the sale of the portion of
its corporate trust business that deals with bond servicing and administration
to The Bank of New York.
     On December 13, 1995, the registrant completed the acquisition of
Intercontinental Bank ("ICBK"). As of the acquisition date, ICBK had assets of
approximately $1.1 billion and deposits of approximately $910 million. The
registrant issued 0.4153 shares of its common stock in exchange for each
outstanding share of ICBK common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately 3 million shares of the registrant's common stock.
     On December 21, 1995, the registrant completed the acquisition of North
Florida Bank Corporation ("NFBC"). As of the acquisition date, NFBC had assets
of approximately $50 million and deposits of approximately $44 million. The
registrant issued 0.7797 shares of its common stock for each outstanding share
of NFBC common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 103,000
shares of the registrant's common stock.
     On January 9, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of Bank South
Corporation ("BKSO"). As of the acquisition date, BKSO had assets of
approximately $7.4 billion and deposits of approximately $5.1 billion. The
registrant issued 0.44 shares of its common stock for each outstanding share of
BKSO common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 26 million
shares of the registrant's common stock.
     On January 10, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of CSF
Holdings, Inc. ("CSF"). As of the acquisition date, CSF had assets of
approximately $4.8 billion and deposits of approximately $3.8 billion. The
purchase price was approximately $516 million and was paid in cash.
     On January 25, 1996, the registrant entered into an agreement to acquire
Charter Bancshares, Inc. ("CBI") by exchanging each outstanding share of CBI
capital stock for 0.385 shares of the registrant's common stock, for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately 1.4 million shares of the registrant's
common stock. As of December 31, 1995, CBI had assets of approximately $915
million and deposits of approximately $734 million. Subject to certain
regulatory approvals, the approval of CBI's shareholders and other closing
conditions, this transaction is expected to be completed in the second quarter
of 1996.
 

     On January 31, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of Sun World,
N.A. ("Sun World"). As of the acquisition date, Sun World had assets of
approximately $136 million and deposits of approximately $123 million. The
purchase price was approximately $16 million and was paid in cash.
     On February 15, 1996, the registrant, through NationsCredit Commercial
Corporation, its wholly owned, indirect subsidiary engaged primarily in the
commercial financial services business, entered into an agreement to acquire LDI
Corporation ("LDI") by purchasing all the outstanding shares of capital stock of
LDI at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $28 million, payable in
cash. As of October 31, 1995, LDI had assets of approximately $335 million.
Subject to certain regulatory approvals, the approval of LDI's shareholders and
other closing conditions, this transaction is expected to be completed in the
second quarter of 1996.
     As part of its operations, the registrant regularly evaluates the potential
acquisition of, and holds discussions with, various financial institutions and
other businesses of a type eligible for bank holding company investment. In
addition, the registrant regularly analyzes the values of, and submits bids for,
the acquisition of customer-based funds and other liabilities and assets of such
financial institutions and other businesses. As a general rule, the registrant
publicly announces such material acquisitions when a definitive agreement has
been reached.
OPERATIONS
     The registrant provides a diversified range of banking and certain
nonbanking financial services and products through its various subsidiaries. The
registrant manages its business activities through three major business units:
the General Bank, Global Finance and Financial Services.
     The General Bank provides comprehensive services in the commercial and
retail banking fields, including trust and private banking operations, the
origination and servicing of home mortgage loans, the issuance and servicing of
credit cards (through a Delaware subsidiary), indirect lending, dealer finance
and certain insurance services. The General Bank also offers full service
brokerage services and discount brokerage services and provides investment
advisory services to a proprietary mutual fund, as well as investment
management, banking and fiduciary services through subsidiaries of the
registrant. As of December 31, 1995, the General Bank operated approximately
1,833 banking offices through the following Banks: NationsBank, N.A. (serving
the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Maryland and Virginia and the
District of Columbia); NationsBank, N.A. (South) (serving the States of Florida
and Georgia); NationsBank of Kentucky, N.A.; NationsBank of Tennessee, N.A; and
NationsBank of Texas, N.A. The General Bank also provides fully automated,
24-hour cash dispensing and depositing services throughout the states in which
it is located, through approximately 2,292 automated teller machines.
     Global Finance provides comprehensive corporate banking and investment
banking services to domestic and international customers, including treasury
management, loan syndication, asset-backed lending, leasing, factoring and
arrangement of asset-backed and project financing, as well as underwriting,
trading or distributing a wide range of securities (including bank-eligible
securities and, to a limited extent, bank-ineligible securities as authorized by
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve
Board") under Section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act), and trading and
distributing a wide range of derivative products in certain interest rate,
foreign exhange, commodity and equity markets. Global Finance provides its
services through various offices located in major United States cities as well
as in London, Frankfurt, Singapore, Bogota, Mexico City, Grand Cayman, Nassau,
Seoul, Tokyo, Osaka, Taipei and Hong Kong.
     Financial Services consists of NationsCredit Consumer Corporation (formerly
NationsCredit Corporation), primarily a consumer finance subsidiary, and
NationsCredit Commercial Corporation (formerly Greyrock Capital Group Inc.),
primarily a commercial finance subsidiary. NationsCredit Consumer Corporation,
which has approximately 371 offices located in 34 states, provides personal,
mortgage and automobile loans to consumers and retail finance programs to
dealers. NationsCredit Commercial Corporation consists of six divisions that
specialize in one or more of the following areas: equipment loans and leasing;
loans for debt restructuring, mergers and acquisitions and working capital; real
estate, golf/recreational and health care financing; and inventory financing to
manufacturers, distributors and dealers.
 

     Additional information about the registrant and its operations is
incorporated by reference from Table Two (page 16) and the narrative comments
under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis -- Business Unit
Operations" (pages 14 through 19) in the registrant's 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders.
GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
  GENERAL
     As a registered bank holding company, the registrant is subject to the
supervision of, and to regular inspection by, the Federal Reserve Board. The
Banks are organized as national banking associations, which are subject to
regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (the "Comptroller"). The Banks are also subject to regulation by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") and other federal regulatory
agencies. In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, the
registrant and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to various other laws
and regulations and supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies,
all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of the
registrant and its ability to make distributions. The following discussion
summarizes certain aspects of those laws and regulations that affect the
registrant.
     Under the Act, the activities of the registrant, and those of companies
which it controls or in which it holds more than 5% of the voting stock, are
limited to banking or managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to or
performing services for its subsidiaries, or any other activity which the
Federal Reserve Board determines to be so closely related to banking or managing
or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In making such
determinations, the Federal Reserve Board is required to consider whether the
performance of such activities by a bank holding company or its subsidiaries can
reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public such as greater
convenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency that outweigh possible
adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair
competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices. Generally, bank
holding companies, such as the registrant, are required to obtain prior approval
of the Federal Reserve Board to engage in any new activity or to acquire more
than 5% of any class of voting stock of any company.
     The Act also requires bank holding companies to obtain the prior approval
of the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring more than 5% of any class of
voting stock of any bank which is not already majority-owned by the bank holding
company. Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency
Act of 1994 (the "Interstate Banking and Branching Act"), which became effective
September 29, 1995, a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other
than its home state subject to any state requirement that the bank has been
organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years,
and the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to or following the
proposed acquisition, controls no more than 10% of the total amount of deposits
of insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30% of
such deposits in that state (or such lesser or greater amount set by state law).
     The Interstate Banking and Branching Act also authorizes banks to merge
across state lines, thereby creating interstate branches, beginning June 1,
1997. Under such legislation, each state has the opportunity either to "opt out"
of this provision, thereby prohibiting interstate branching in such states, or
to "opt in" at an earlier time, thereby allowing interstate branching within
that state prior to June 1, 1997. Furthermore, pursuant to the Interstate
Banking and Branching Act, a bank is now able to open new branches in a state in
which it does not already have banking operations if such state enacts a law
permitting such DE NOVO branching.
     As previously described, the registrant regularly evaluates merger and
acquisition opportunities, and it anticipates that it will continue to evaluate
such opportunities in light of the new legislation.
     Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking industry
are frequently introduced in Congress, in the state legislatures and before the
various bank regulatory agencies. In 1995, several bills were introduced in
Congress that would have the effect of broadening the securities underwriting
powers of bank holding companies and, possibly, permitting bank holding
companies to engage in nonfinancial activities. The likelihood and timing of any
such proposals or bills and the impact they might have on the registrant and its
subsidiaries cannot be determined at this time.
 

  CAPITAL AND OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS
     The Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller and the FDIC have issued
substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to
United States banking organizations. In addition, those regulatory agencies may
from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the
minimum levels, whether because of its financial condition or actual or
anticipated growth. The guidelines are summarized in the narrative comments
under the caption "Capital Resources and Capital Management" (page 40) set forth
in the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of the registrant which are hereby
incorporated by reference.
     The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
("FDICIA"), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insured
depository institutions (well capitalized, adequately capitalized,
undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically
undercapitalized) and requires the respective Federal regulatory agencies to
implement systems for "prompt corrective action" for insured depository
institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements within such
categories. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on
operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category in
which an institution is classified. Failure to meet the capital guidelines could
also subject a banking institution to capital raising requirements. An
"undercapitalized" bank must develop a capital restoration plan and its parent
holding company must guarantee that bank's compliance with the plan. The
liability of the parent holding company under any such guarantee is limited to
the lesser of 5% of the bank's assets at the time it became "undercapitalized"
or the amount needed to comply with the plan. Furthermore, in the event of the
bankruptcy of the parent holding company, such guarantee would take priority
over the parent's general unsecured creditors. In addition, FDICIA requires the
various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards for
safety and soundness relating generally to operations and management, asset
quality and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a
financial institution that does not meet such standards.
     The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially similar
regulations that define the five capital categories identified by FDICIA, using
the total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capital
ratios as the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish various
degrees of corrective action to be taken when an institution is considered
undercapitalized. Under the regulations, a "well capitalized" institution must
have a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent, a total capital ratio of at
least 10 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 5 percent and not be subject
to a capital directive order. An "adequately capitalized" institution must have
a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4 percent, a total capital ratio of at least
8 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 4 percent, or 3 percent in some
cases. Under these guidelines, each of the Banks is considered adequately or
well capitalized.
     Banking agencies have also adopted final regulations which mandate that
regulators take into consideration concentrations of credit risk and risks from
non-traditional activities, as well as an institution's ability to manage those
risks, when determining the adequacy of an institution's capital. That
evaluation will be made as a part of the institution's regular safety and
soundness examination. Banking agencies also have proposed amendments to
existing risk-based capital regulations to provide for the consideration of
interest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution's
assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its
off-balance-sheet position) in the determination of a bank's minimum capital
requirements. This proposal, while still under consideration, would require
banks with interest rate risk in excess of defined thresholds to maintain
additional capital beyond that generally required.
  DISTRIBUTIONS
     The registrant's funds for cash distributions to its shareholders are
derived from a variety of sources, including cash and temporary investments. The
primary source of such funds, however, is dividends received from the Banks. The
amount of dividends that each Bank may declare in a calendar year without
approval of the Comptroller is the Bank's net profits for that year, as defined
by statute, combined with its net retained profits, as defined, for the
preceding two years. In addition, from time to time the registrant applies for,
and may receive, permission from the Comptroller for one or more of the Banks to
declare special dividends. In 1996, the Banks can initiate dividend payments,
without prior regulatory approval, of up to an aggregate of $905 million plus an
additional amount equal to their net profits for 1996 up to the date of any such
dividend declaration.
 

     In addition to the foregoing, the ability of the registrant and the Banks
to pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum capital requirements and
the capital and non-capital standards established under FDICIA, as described
above. Furthermore, the Comptroller may prohibit the payment of a dividend by a
national bank if it determines that such payment would constitute an unsafe or
unsound practice. The right of the registrant, its shareholders and its
creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its
subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the
respective subsidiaries.
  SOURCE OF STRENGTH
     According to Federal Reserve Board policy, bank holding companies are
expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to
commit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be required
at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support.
Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC -- either as a
result of default of a banking or thrift subsidiary of the registrant or related
to FDIC assistance provided to a subsidiary in danger of default -- the other
Banks may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to certain exceptions.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
     The following information set forth in the 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference:
          Table Three (page 18) for average balance sheet amounts, related
     taxable-equivalent interest earned or paid, and related average yields
     earned and rates paid.
          Table Four (page 20) and the narrative comments under the caption "Net
     Interest Income" (page 19) for changes in taxable-equivalent interest
     income and expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and
     interest-bearing liabilities.
          The narrative comments under the caption "Securities" (pages 25 and
     26) and Note Three (pages 54 through 56) of the Notes To Consolidated
     Financial Statements for information on the book values, maturities and
     weighted average yields of the securities (by category) of the registrant.
          Tables Eight (page 26), Nine (page 27) and Twenty (page 39) for
     distribution of loans and leases, selected loan maturity data and
     interest-rate risk.
          Table Fifteen (page 34), the narrative comments under the caption
     "Credit Risk Management And Credit Portfolio Review -- Nonperforming
     Assets" (pages 33 and 34), and Note One (page 52) of the Notes To
     Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the nonperforming
     assets of the registrant. The narrative comments under the captions "Credit
     Risk Management And Credit Portfolio Review" (pages 31 and 32) and "Loans
     and Leases" (pages 26 and 27) and Tables Seventeen, Eighteen and Nineteen
     (pages 36 and 37) for a discussion of the characteristics of the loan and
     lease portfolio.
          Tables Thirteen (page 32) and Fourteen (page 33), the narrative
     comments under the captions "Provision for Credit Losses" (page 19) and
     "Credit Risk Management And Credit Portfolio Review -- Allowance for Credit
     Losses" (pages 32 and 33) and Note One (page 52) of the Notes To
     Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the credit loss
     experience of the registrant.
          Table Three (page 18) and the narrative comments under the caption
     "Deposits" (page 27) for deposit information.
          "Six-Year Consolidated Statistical Summary" (page 69) for return on
     assets, return on equity and dividend payout ratio for 1990 through 1995,
     inclusive.
          Table Ten (page 28) and Note Six (pages 58 and 59) of the Notes To
     Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the short-term
     borrowings of the registrant.
          All tables, graphs, charts, summaries and narrative on pages 14
     through 45 and pages 68 and 69 for additional data on the consolidated
     operations of the registrant and its majority-owned subsidiaries.
 

COMPETITION
     The activities in which the registrant and its three major business units
(the General Bank, Global Finance and Financial Services) engage are highly
competitive. Generally, the lines of activity and markets served involve
competition with other banks and non-bank financial institutions, such as
investment banking firms, brokerage firms, mutual funds and insurance companies,
as well as other entities which offer financial services, located both within
and without the United States. The methods of competition center around various
factors, such as customer services, interest rates on loans and deposits,
lending limits and location of offices.
     The commercial banking business in the various local markets served by the
registrant's three major business units is highly competitive. The General Bank,
Global Finance and Financial Services compete with other commercial banks,
savings and loan associations, finance companies and other businesses which
provide similar services. The three major business units actively compete in
commercial lending activities with local, regional and international banks and
non-bank financial organizations, some of which are larger than certain of the
registrant's non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks. In its consumer lending
operations, the competitors of the three major business units include other
banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, regulated small loan
companies and other non-bank organizations offering financial services. In the
investment banking, investment advisory and brokerage business, the registrant's
non-banking subsidiaries compete with other banking and investment banking
firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms and mutual funds. The
registrant's mortgage banking subsidiary competes with commercial banks, savings
and loan associations, government agencies, mortgage brokers and other non-bank
organizations offering mortgage banking services. In the trust business, the
Banks compete with other banks, investment counselors and insurance companies in
national markets for institutional funds and corporate pension and profit
sharing accounts. The Banks also compete with other banks, insurance agents,
financial counselors and other fiduciaries for personal trust business. The
registrant and its three major business units also actively compete for funds. A
primary source of funds for the Banks is deposits, and competition for deposits
includes other deposit taking organizations, such as commercial banks, savings
and loan associations and credit unions, as well as money market mutual funds.
     The registrant's ability to expand into additional states remains subject
to various federal and state laws. See "Government Supervision and
Regulation -- General" for a more detailed discussion of interstate banking and
branching legislation and certain state legislation.
EMPLOYEES
     At December 31, 1995, the registrant and its subsidiaries had 58,322
full-time equivalent employees. Of the foregoing employees, 32,763 were employed
by the General Bank, 5,429 were employed by Global Finance, 2,744 were employed
by Financial Services, 13,300 were employed by NationsBanc Services, Inc. (a
subsidiary providing operational support services to the registrant and its
subsidiaries) and the remainder were employed by the registrant holding company
and the registrant's other subsidiaries.
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
     The principal offices of the registrant are located in the 60-story
NationsBank Corporate Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is owned by a
subsidiary of the registrant. The registrant occupies approximately 512,000
square feet at market rates under a lease which expires in 2002, and
approximately 593,000 square feet of office space is available for lease to
third parties at market rates. At December 31, 1995, approximately 99 percent
was occupied by the registrant or subject to existing third party leases or
letters of intention to lease.
     The principal North Carolina offices of NationsBank, N.A. are located in
leased space in the 40-story NationsBank Plaza, Charlotte, North Carolina.
NationsBank, N.A. is the major tenant of the building with approximately 669,000
square feet of the net rentable space, of which approximately 438,000 square
feet of space is under a lease which expires in 2009 and the remaining space is
under leases of shorter duration.
     The principal South Carolina offices of NationsBank, N.A. are located in
approximately 91,000 square feet of leased space in the NationsBank Tower in
Columbia under a lease which is in the process of being renewed. NationsBank,
N.A., through subsidiaries, owns partnership interests in the building and the
underlying land. In addition, NationsBank, N.A. maintains offices in
approximately 81,000 square feet of leased space
 

in NationsBank Plaza in Columbia under a lease that expires in 1999.
NationsBank, N.A. has four five-year renewal options on this space.
     The principal Virginia offices of NationsBank, N.A. are located in
approximately 383,000 square feet of space in NationsBank Center in Richmond,
Virginia, a facility that is owned by NationsBank, N.A. The remaining
approximately 157,000 square feet are leased to a third party tenant.
     The principal Maryland offices of NationsBank, N.A. are located in
approximately 135,000 square feet of leased space in the Rockledge Executive
Center in Bethesda under a lease that expires in 2002. NationsBank, N.A. has two
five-year renewal options on this space. The approximately 19,000 square feet of
space remaining is occupied by third parties under sub-leases with NationsBank,
N.A. The sub-leases, which are at market rates, expire in 1997 and 2002.
     The principal offices of NationsBank of Texas, N.A. ("NationsBank Texas")
are located in approximately 680,000 square feet of leased space in the 72-story
NationsBank Plaza in Dallas. NationsBank Texas is the major tenant of the
building under a lease which expires in 2001 with renewal options through 2011.
     The principal Florida offices of NationsBank, N.A. (South) ("NationsBank
South") are located in approximately 238,000 square feet of leased space in the
NationsBank Plaza in downtown Tampa. The lease expires in 2005. NationsBank
South has four five-year renewal options on this space.
     The principal Georgia offices of NationsBank South are located in leased
space in the 55-story NationsBank Plaza in Atlanta. The registrant, through a
subsidiary, is a partner in CSC Associates, L.P., a partnership that was formed
with Cousins Properties Incorporated for the development and ownership of the
office tower. NationsBank South is the major tenant of the building with
approximately 579,000 square feet of the net rentable space, under a lease that
expires in 2012. NationsBank South has three ten-year renewal options on this
space. Of the approximately 684,000 remaining square feet, 596,000 square feet
has been leased to third parties, with 88,000 remaining square feet available
for lease to third parties at market rates.
     The principal offices of NationsBank of Tennessee, N.A. ("NationsBank
Tennessee") are located in approximately 220,000 square feet of leased space in
NationsBank Plaza in Nashville under a lease that expires in 2012. NationsBank
Tennessee has two ten-year and one five-year renewal options on this space.
     The principal offices of NationsCredit Consumer Corporation are located in
approximately 136,000 square feet of space in Allentown, Pennsylvania in a
facility which it owns.
     The principal offices of NationsCredit Commercial Corporation are located
in approximately 42,880 square feet of leased space in Canterbury Green in
Stamford, Connecticut, under a lease which expires in 1997.
     As of December 31, 1995, the registrant and its subsidiaries conducted
their banking and bank-related activities in both leased and owned facilities
throughout the jurisdictions in which the Banks are located, as follows:

 
 

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
     In the ordinary course of business, the registrant and its subsidiaries are
routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and threatened legal
actions and proceedings, including several actions brought on behalf of various
classes of claimants. In certain of these actions and proceedings substantial
money damages are asserted against the registrant and its subsidiaries and
certain of these actions and proceedings are based on alleged violations of
consumer protection, securities, banking and other laws. Management believes,
based upon the advice of counsel, that these actions and proceedings and losses,
if any, resulting from the final outcome thereof, will not be material in the
aggregate to the registrant's financial position or results of operations.
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
     There were no matters submitted to security holders in the fourth quarter
of the registrant's fiscal year.
ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
     Pursuant to the Instructions to Form 10-K and Item 401(b) of Regulation
S-K, the name, age and position of each executive officer and the principal
accounting officer of the registrant are listed below along with such officer's
business experience during the past five years. Officers are appointed annually
by the Board of Directors at the meeting of directors immediately following the
annual meeting of shareholders. There are no arrangements or understandings
between any officer and any other person pursuant to which any officer was
selected.
     Fredric J. Figge, II, age 59, Chairman, Corporate Risk Policy of the
registrant and of the Banks. Mr. Figge was named Chairman, Corporate Risk Policy
in October, 1993 and prior to that time served as Chairman, Credit Policy of the
registrant and of the Banks. He first became an officer in 1987.
     James H. Hance, Jr., age 51, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of
the registrant. Mr. Hance was named Chief Financial Officer in August, 1988,
also served as Executive Vice President from March, 1987 to December 31, 1991
and was named Vice Chairman in October, 1993. He first became an officer in
1987. He also serves as a director of NationsBank, N.A., NationsBank Tennessee
and various other subsidiaries of the registrant.
     Kenneth D. Lewis, age 48, President of the registrant. Mr. Lewis was named
to his present position in October, 1993. Prior to that time, from June, 1990 to
October, 1993 he served as President of the registrant's General Bank. He first
became an officer in 1971. Mr. Lewis also serves as a director of NationsBank,
N.A., NationsBank South and NationsBank Texas.
     Hugh L. McColl, Jr., age 60, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of the registrant and Chief Executive Officer of the Banks. He first
became an officer in 1962. Mr. McColl was Chairman of the registrant from
September, 1983 until December 31, 1991, and was re-appointed Chairman on
December 31, 1992. He also serves as a director of the registrant and
NationsBank Texas.
     Marc D. Oken, age 49, Executive Vice President and Principal Accounting
Officer of the registrant. He first became an officer in 1989.
     F. William Vandiver, Jr., age 54, President of NationsBank Global Finance,
which includes Corporate Finance, Capital Markets and Specialized Lending. Mr.
Vandiver was named President of NationsBank Global Finance in January, 1996. In
1984, he was named Investment Banking Company executive and president in 1988.
He has been an officer since 1968.
 

                                    PART II
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
        SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS
     The principal market on which the registrant's common stock (the "Common
Stock") is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The registrant also listed
certain of its shares of Common Stock for trading on the Pacific Stock Exchange
and on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The high and low sales prices of Common Stock
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions List, as reported in
published financial sources, for each quarterly period indicated below are as
follows:

 
     As of December 31, 1995, there were 103,137 record holders of Common Stock.
During 1994 and 1995, the registrant paid dividends on the Common Stock on a
quarterly basis, which aggregated $1.88 per share in 1994 and $2.08 per share in
1995. For additional information regarding the registrant's ability to pay
dividends, see "Government Supervision and Regulation -- Distributions." The
eighth paragraph of Note Six (page 59) and Note Nine (page 60) of the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in the registrant's 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders are hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
     The information set forth in Table One (page 15) in the registrant's 1995
Annual Report to Shareholders is hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS
     All of the information set forth under the captions "Management's
Discussion and Analysis -- 1995 Compared to 1994" (pages 14 through 41),
"Management's Discussion and Analysis -- 1994 Compared to 1993" (pages 41
through 45), "Report of Management" (page 46) and all tables, graphs and charts
presented under the foregoing captions in the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders
of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
     The following information set forth in the 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference:
     The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes To Consolidated Financial
Statements of NationsBank Corporation and Subsidiaries, together with the report
thereon of Price Waterhouse LLP dated January 12, 1996 (pages 46 through 67);
the unaudited information presented in Table Twenty-One (page 42); and the
narrative comments under the caption "Fourth Quarter Review" (page 41).
 

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
     There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on accounting
and financial disclosure.
                                    PART III
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
     Information set forth under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 3
through 10 of the definitive 1996 Proxy Statement of the registrant furnished to
shareholders in connection with its Annual Meeting to be held on April 24, 1996
(the "1996 Proxy Statement") with respect to the name of each nominee or
director, that person's age, positions and offices with the registrant, business
experience, directorships in other public companies, service on the registrant's
Board and certain family relationships, and information set forth under the
caption "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934"
on page 13 of the 1996 Proxy Statement with respect to Section 16 matters, is
hereby incorporated by reference. The information required by Item 10 with
respect to executive officers is set forth in Part I, Item 4A hereof.
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
     Information with respect to current remuneration of executive officers,
certain proposed remuneration to them, their options and certain indebtedness
and other transactions set forth in the 1996 Proxy Statement (i) under the
caption "Board of Directors' Compensation" on pages 14 through 16 thereof, (ii)
under the caption "Executive Compensation" on pages 16 through 18 thereof, (iii)
under the caption "Retirement Plans" on pages 18 and 19 thereof, (iv) under the
caption "Deferred Compensation Plan" on pages 19 and 20 thereof, (v) under the
caption "Special Compensation Arrangements" on page 21 thereof, (vi) under the
caption "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" on page 28
thereof, and (vii) under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages 28 and 29
thereof, is, to the extent such information is required by Item 402 of
Regulation S-K, hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
     The security ownership information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K
relating to persons who beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding shares
of Common Stock or ESOP Preferred Stock, as well as security ownership
information relating to directors, nominees and named executive officers
individually and directors and executive officers as a group, is hereby
incorporated by reference to the ownership information set forth under the
caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" on
pages 10 through 13 of the 1996 Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
     Information with respect to relationships and related transactions between
the registrant and any director, nominee for director, executive officer,
security holder owning 5% or more of the registrant's voting securities or any
member of the immediate family of any of the above, as set forth in the 1996
Proxy Statement under the caption "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation" on page 28 and under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages
28 and 29 thereof, is, to the extent such information is required by Item 404 of
Regulation S-K, hereby incorporated by reference.
 

                                    PART IV
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
         FORM 8-K
          a. The following documents are filed as part of this report:

 
          b. The following reports on Form 8-K have been filed by the registrant
             during the quarter ended December 31, 1995:
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed October 20, 1995, Items
             5 and 7. (Two reports filed on that date.)
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed November 9, 1995, Items
             5 and 7.
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed December 15, 1995, Items
             5 and 7.
          c. The exhibits filed as part of this report and exhibits incorporated
             herein by reference to other documents are listed in the Index to
             Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages E-1 through E-5,
             including executive compensation plans and arrangements which are
             identified separately by asterisk).
     With the exception of the information herein expressly incorporated by
reference, the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders and the 1996 Proxy Statement
are not to be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                        NATIONSBANK CORPORATION
Date: March 29, 1996                    By:   */s/   HUGH L. MCCOLL, JR.
                                                    HUGH L. MCCOLL, JR.
                                                   CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
                                                AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

                                      II-1
 


 
                                      II-2
 

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

                                      E-1
 


                                      E-2
 


                                      E-3
 


                                      E-4
 


 
* Denotes executive compensation plan or arrangements.
                                      E-5
 


