
10-K405
NATIONSBANK 10-K405 80685



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
  For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1994 -- Commission File Number 1-6523
                            NATIONSBANK CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  NONE
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.
                                Yes  X  No
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or in any amendment to
this Form
10-K.
Aggregate market value of shares of voting stock held by all persons, other than
shares beneficially owned by persons who may be deemed to be affiliates (as
defined in SEC Rule 405), is approximately $13,934,641,000 computed by reference
to the closing price of Common Stock of $50.00 per share on March 15, 1995, on
the Composite Tape, as reported in published financial sources, and a stated
price of $42.50 for the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C.
Of the registrant's only class of Common Stock, there were 276,477,155 shares
outstanding as of February 28, 1995.
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

 

                                     PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
GENERAL
     The registrant is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "Act"), with its principal assets being the
stock of its subsidiaries. Through its banking subsidiaries (the "Banks") and
its various non-banking subsidiaries, the registrant provides banking and
banking-related services, primarily throughout the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic
states and Texas. The principal executive offices of the registrant are located
at NationsBank Corporate Center in Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.
ACQUISITIONS
     On February 28, 1994, the registrant merged with Corpus Christi National
Bank ("CCNB") of Corpus Christi, Texas, which had assets at the closing date of
$687 million. The registrant acquired all the outstanding capital stock of CCNB
by exchanging 2.5 shares of its common stock for each share of CCNB common stock
outstanding. As a result, the registrant issued 2.6 million shares of common
stock, for a total consideration of approximately $62 million.
     On August 4, 1994, the registrant completed an acquisition from California
Federal Savings Bank of 43 banking centers in Florida and one banking center in
Georgia, including their deposits, at a purchase price of approximately $160
million. Deposits acquired approximated $3.9 billion.
     On September 30, 1994, the registrant's mortgage banking subsidiary
completed the acquisition of Express America Holdings Corporation's mortgage
servicing operations based in Scottsdale, Arizona, including rights to service
approximately $6.4 billion of mortgage loans. The purchase price approximated
$85 million.
     On October 31, 1994, the registrant's mortgage banking subsidiary acquired
Cypress Financial Corporation, Rancho Santa Margarita Mortgage Corporation and
RSM Funding Corporation, which combined had 22 offices in California and
Arizona. The combined servicing portfolios were approximately $1.3 billion. The
purchase price approximated $28 million.
     On November 4, 1994, the registrant completed the acquisition of
Consolidated Bank, a Miami, Florida-based banking company with 12 banking
centers. As of October 31, 1994, Consolidated Bank had assets of approximately
$570 million.
     On November 7, 1994, the registrant and Gartmore Capital Management, a
subsidiary of Gartmore plc, entered a joint venture agreement to provide
international investment management and advisory services to United States
customers. The joint venture is expected to begin operations in the second
quarter of 1995.
     On November 9, 1994, the registrant completed the acquisition of South
Carolina based RHNB Corporation ("RHNB"), the parent company of Rock Hill
National Bank. As of October 31, 1994, RHNB and its subsidiary had assets of
approximately $256 million. The registrant issued 881,000 shares of common stock
in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of RHNB, for a total consideration
of approximately $43 million.
     On November 15, 1994, the registrant purchased Dean Witter, Discover &
Co.'s partnership interest in NationsSecurities. As of such date,
NationsSecurities became wholly-owned and managed by the registrant.
     On February 22, 1995, the registrant's mortgage banking subsidiary entered
into an agreement with Source One Mortgage Services Corporation to purchase a
$10 billion residential mortgage servicing portfolio at a purchase price of
approximately $190 million. This transaction is subject to certain regulatory
conditions and other customary closing conditions and is expected to be
completed on March 31, 1995.
     On February 23, 1995, the registrant's mortgage banking subsidiary entered
into an agreement with KeyCorp and Key Bank of New York to purchase the
residential mortgage servicing business of KeyCorp Mortgage Inc. The acquired
assets will include primarily a $25 billion residential mortgage servicing
portfolio, for which the registrant's subsidiary will pay approximately $350
million, a mortgage servicing operation employing about 500 people and other
servicing-related assets, for which this subsidiary will pay approximately $150
million. This transaction is subject to certain regulatory conditions and other
customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed on March 31, 1995.
 

     As part of its operations, the registrant regularly evaluates the potential
acquisition of, and holds discussions with, various financial institutions and
other businesses of a type eligible for bank holding company investment. In
addition, the registrant regularly analyzes the values of, and submits bids for,
the acquisition of customer-based funds and other liabilities and assets of such
financial institutions and other businesses. As a general rule, the registrant
publicly announces such material acquisitions when a definitive agreement has
been reached.
OPERATIONS
     The registrant provides a diversified range of banking and certain
non-banking financial services and products through its various subsidiaries.
The registrant manages its business activities through three major groups: the
General Bank, the Global Finance Group (formerly named the Institutional Group)
and the Financial Services Group. Table 2 (page 26) and the narrative comments
under the caption "Customer Group Review" (pages 27 and 30) in the registrant's
1994 Annual Report to Shareholders are hereby incorporated by reference.
     The General Bank provides comprehensive services in the commercial and
retail banking fields, including trust and private banking operations, the
origination and servicing of home mortgage loans, the issuance and servicing of
credit cards (through a Delaware subsidiary) and certain insurance services. The
General Bank also offers full service brokerage services and discount brokerage
services for its customers through subsidiaries of the registrant. As of
December 31, 1994, the General Bank had approximately 1,929 banking offices
located in the States of Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia and the District of Columbia. The
registrant had average deposits in 1994 of approximately $94 billion, of which
$78 billion related to the General Bank. Average deposits of the General Bank by
state jurisdictions were approximately: Maryland, Virginia and D.C. ($19
billion); Texas ($18 billion); Florida ($15 billion); North and South Carolina
($11 billion); Georgia ($7 billion); and Tennessee and Kentucky ($4 billion).
The financial products and trust and private banking segments of the General
Bank had $4 billion of average deposits in 1994. The General Bank also provides
fully automated, 24-hour cash dispensing and depositing services throughout the
states in which it is located, through approximately 2,100 automated teller
machines.
     The Global Finance Group provides to domestic and international customers
comprehensive corporate banking and investment banking services, including loan
syndication, treasury management and leasing; underwriting, trading or
distributing a wide range of securities (including bank-eligible securities and,
to a limited extent, bank-ineligible securities as authorized by the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board") under
Section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act); and options, futures, forwards and swaps
on certain interest rate and commodity products, and spot and forward foreign
exchange contracts. The Global Finance Group provides its services through
various domestic offices as well as offices located in London, Frankfurt,
Singapore, Mexico City, Grand Cayman, Nassau, Tokyo, Osaka, Paris and Hong Kong.
In addition to these offices, the Global Finance Group has loan production
offices located in New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles, Denver and Birmingham.
     The Financial Services Group consists of NationsCredit Corporation,
primarily a consumer finance subsidiary, and Greyrock Capital Group Inc.
(formerly named Nations Financial Capital Corporation), primarily a commercial
finance subsidiary. NationsCredit Corporation, which has approximately 300
offices located in 32 states, provides consumer and retail loan programs and
also offers inventory financing to manufacturers, importers and distributors.
Greyrock Capital Group Inc., which has approximately 79 offices located in 24
states, engages in commercial equipment leasing and makes commercial loans for
debt restructuring, merger and acquisition, real estate financing, equipment
acquisition and working capital purposes; it also acquires consumer loans 
secured by automobiles and real estate.

GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
  GENERAL
     As a registered bank holding company, the registrant is subject to the
supervision of, and to regular inspection by, the Federal Reserve Board. The
Banks are organized as national banking associations, which are subject to
regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (the "Comptroller"). The Banks are also subject to regulation by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
 

"FDIC") and other federal regulatory agencies. In addition to banking laws,
regulations and regulatory agencies, the registrant and its subsidiaries and
affiliates are subject to various other laws and regulations and supervision and
examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly
affect the operations and management of the registrant and its ability to make
distributions. The following discussion summarizes certain aspects of those laws
and regulations that affect the registrant.
     Under the Act, the activities of the registrant, and those of companies
which it controls or in which it holds more than 5% of the voting stock, are
limited to banking or managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to or
performing services for its subsidiaries, or any other activity which the
Federal Reserve Board determines to be so closely related to banking or managing
or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In making such
determinations, the Federal Reserve Board is required to consider whether the
performance of such activities by a bank holding company or its subsidiaries can
reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public such as greater
convenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency that outweigh possible
adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair
competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices. Generally, bank
holding companies, such as the registrant, are required to obtain prior approval
of the Federal Reserve Board to engage in any new activity not previously
approved by the Federal Reserve Board or to acquire more than 5% of any class of
voting stock of any company.
     The Act also requires bank holding companies to obtain the prior approval
of the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring more than 5% of any class of
voting stock of any bank which is not already majority-owned by the bank holding
company. Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency
Act of 1994 (the "Interstate Banking and Branching Act"), a bank holding company
will be able to acquire banks in states other than its home state beginning
September 29, 1995. Until such provisions are effective, interstate acquisitions
by bank holding companies will be subject to current Federal law, which provides
that no application to acquire shares of a bank located outside of North
Carolina (the state in which the operations of the Banks were principally
conducted on the date the registrant became subject to the Act) may be approved
by the Federal Reserve Board unless such acquisition is specifically authorized
by the laws of the state in which the bank whose shares are to be acquired is
located.
     The Interstate Banking and Branching Act also authorizes banks to merge
across state lines, thereby creating interstate branches, beginning June 1,
1997. Under such legislation, each state has the opportunity either to "opt out"
of this provision, thereby prohibiting interstate branching in such states, or
to "opt in" at an earlier time, thereby allowing interstate branching within
that state prior to June 1, 1997. Furthermore, pursuant to the Interstate
Banking and Branching Act, a bank is now able to open new branches in a state in
which it does not already have banking operations, if such state enacts a law
permitting such DE NOVO branching.
     As previously described, the registrant regularly evaluates merger and
acquisition opportunities, and it anticipates that it will continue to evaluate
such opportunities in light of the new legislation.
     Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking industry
are frequently introduced in Congress, in the state legislatures and before the
various bank regulatory agencies. In 1995, several bills have been introduced in
Congress that would have the effect of broadening the securities underwriting
powers of bank holding companies and, possibly, permitting bank holding
companies to engage in nonfinancial activities. The likelihood and timing of any
such proposals or bills and the impact they might have on the registrant and its
subsidiaries, however, cannot be determined at this time.
  CAPITAL AND OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS
     The Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller and the FDIC have issued
substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to
United States banking organizations. In addition, those regulatory agencies may
from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the
minimum levels, whether because of its financial condition or actual or
anticipated growth. The narrative comments under the caption "Capital Resources
and Capital Management" (page 48) set forth in the 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders of the registrant are hereby incorporated by reference.
     The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
("FDICIA"), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insured
depository institutions (well capitalized, adequately capitalized,
 

undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically
undercapitalized) and requires the respective Federal regulatory agencies to
implement systems for "prompt corrective action" for insured depository
institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements within such
categories. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on
operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category in
which an institution is classified. Failure to meet the capital guidelines could
also subject a banking institution to capital raising requirements. An
"undercapitalized" bank must develop a capital restoration plan and its parent
holding company must guarantee that bank's compliance with the plan. The
liability of the parent holding company under any such guarantee is limited to
the lesser of 5% of the bank's assets at the time it became "undercapitalized"
or the amount needed to comply with the plan. Furthermore, in the event of the
bankruptcy of the parent holding company, such guarantee would take priority
over the parent's general unsecured creditors. In addition, FDICIA requires the
various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards for
safety and soundness relating generally to operations and management, asset
quality and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a
financial institution that does not meet such standards.
     The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially similar
regulations that define the five capital categories identified by FDICIA, using
the total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capital
ratios as the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish various
degrees of corrective action to be taken when an institution is considered
undercapitalized. Under the regulations, a "well capitalized" institution must
have a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent, a total capital ratio of at
least 10 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 5 percent and not be subject
to a capital directive order. An "adequately capitalized" institution must have
a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4 percent, a total capital ratio of at least
8 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 4 percent, or 3 percent in some
cases. Under these guidelines, each of the Banks is considered adequately or
well capitalized.
     Banking agencies have recently adopted final regulations which mandate that
regulators take into consideration concentrations of credit risk and risks from
non-traditional activities, as well as an institution's ability to manage those
risks, when determining the adequacy of an institution's capital. That
evaluation will be made as a part of the institution's regular safety and
soundness examination. Banking agencies also have proposed amendments to
existing risk-based capital regulations to provide for the consideration of
interest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution's
assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its
off-balance-sheet position) in the determination of a bank's minimum capital
requirements. Those proposals, while still under consideration, would require
banks with interest rate risk in excess of defined thresholds to maintain
additional capital beyond that generally required.
  DISTRIBUTIONS
     The registrant's funds for cash distributions to its shareholders are
derived from a variety of sources, including cash and temporary investments. The
primary source of such funds, however, is dividends received from its banking
subsidiaries. The amount of dividends that each Bank may declare in a calendar
year without approval of the Comptroller is the Bank's net profits for that
year, as defined by statute, combined with its net retained profits, as defined,
for the preceding two years. In addition, from time to time the registrant
applies for, and may receive, permission from the Comptroller for one or more of
the Banks to declare special dividends. In 1995, the Banks can initiate dividend
payments, without prior regulatory approval, of up to $1.0 billion plus an
additional amount equal to their net profits for 1995 up to the date of any such
dividend declaration.
     In addition to the foregoing, the ability of the registrant and the Banks
to pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum capital requirements and
the capital and non-capital standards established under FDICIA as described
above. Furthermore, the Comptroller may prohibit the payment of a dividend by a
national bank if it determines that such payment would constitute an unsafe or
unsound practice. The right of the registrant, its shareholders and its
creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its
subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the
respective subsidiaries.
 

  SOURCE OF STRENGTH
     According to Federal Reserve Board policy, bank holding companies are
expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to
commit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be required
at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support. In
the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC -- either as a result of
default of a banking or thrift subsidiary of the registrant or related to FDIC
assistance provided to a subsidiary in danger of default -- the other banking
subsidiaries of the registrant may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to
certain exceptions.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
     The following information set forth in the 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference:
          Table 3 (pages 28 and 29) for average balance sheet amounts, related
     taxable-equivalent interest earned or paid, and related average yields
     earned and rates paid.
          Tables 3 (pages 28 and 29) and 4 (page 31) and the narrative comments
     under the caption "Net Interest Income" (pages 30 to 32) for changes in
     taxable-equivalent interest income and expense for each major category of
     interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.
          The narrative comments under the caption "Securities" (pages 37 and
     38) and Note 3 (pages 64 and 65) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
     Statements for information on the book values, maturities and weighted
     average yields of the securities (by category) of the registrant.
          Tables 8 (page 36), 9 (page 37) and 20 (page 47) for distribution of
     loans and leases, selected loan maturity data and interest-rate risk.
          Table 14 (page 42), the narrative comments under the caption
     "Nonperforming Assets" (pages 43 and 44), and Note 1 (pages 62 and 63) of
     the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the
     nonperforming assets of the registrant. The narrative comments under the
     captions "Concentrations of Credit Risk" (pages 44 and 45) and "Loans and
     Leases" (page 38) and Tables 15, 16 and 17 (pages 43 and 44) for a
     discussion of the characteristics of the loan and lease portfolio.
          Tables 12 (page 40) and 13 (page 41), the narrative comments under the
     captions "Provision for Credit Losses" (page 32) and "Allowance for Credit
     Losses" (pages 42 and 43) and Note 1 (page 62) of the Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements for information on the credit loss experience of the
     registrant.
          Tables 3 and 10 (pages 28 and 29 and page 38, respectively) and the
     narrative comments under the caption "Deposits" (page 38) for deposit
     information.
          "Six-Year Consolidated Statistical Summary" (page 79) for return on
     assets, return on equity and dividend payout ratio for 1989 through 1994,
     inclusive.
          Table 11 (page 39) and Note 7 (pages 68 and 69) of the Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the short-term
     borrowings of the registrant.
          All tables, graphs, charts, summaries and narrative on pages 1, 25
     through 55, and 78 through 79 for additional data on the consolidated
     operations of the registrant and its majority-owned subsidiaries.
COMPETITION
     The activities in which the registrant, its non-banking subsidiaries and
the Banks engage are highly competitive. Generally, the lines of activity and
markets served involve competition with other banks and non-bank financial
institutions, such as investment banking firms, brokerage firms, mutual funds
and insurance companies, as well as other entities which offer financial
services, located both within and without the United States. The methods of
competition center around various factors, such as customer services, interest
rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and location of offices.
     The commercial banking business in the various local markets served by the
registrant's non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks is highly competitive. The
non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks compete with
 

other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, finance companies and
other businesses which provide similar services. The non-banking subsidiaries
and the Banks actively compete in commercial lending activities with local,
regional and international banks and non-bank financial organizations, some of
which are larger than certain of the non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks. In
its consumer lending operations, the non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks'
competitors include other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions,
regulated small loan companies and other non-bank organizations offering
financial services. In the investment banking and brokerage business, the
registrant's non-banking subsidiaries compete with other banking and investment
banking firms, brokerage firms and mutual funds. The registrant's mortgage
banking subsidiary competes with commercial banks, savings and loan
associations, government agencies, mortgage brokers and other non-bank
organizations offering mortgage banking services. In the trust business, the
Banks compete with other banks, investment counselors and insurance companies in
national markets for institutional funds and corporate pension and profit
sharing accounts. The Banks also compete with other banks, insurance agents,
financial counselors and other fiduciaries for personal trust business. The
non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks also actively compete for funds. A
primary source of funds for the Banks is deposits, and competition for deposits
includes other deposit taking organizations, such as commercial banks, savings
and loan associations and credit unions, as well as money market mutual funds.
The non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks also actively compete for funds in
the open market.
     The registrant's ability to expand into additional states remains subject
to various federal and state laws. See "Government Supervision and
Regulation -- General" for a more detailed discussion of interstate branching
legislation and certain state legislation.
EMPLOYEES
     At December 31, 1994, the registrant and its subsidiaries had 61,484 full
time equivalent employees. Of the foregoing employees, 35,401 were employed by
the General Bank, 5,199 were employed by the Global Finance Group, 2,643 were
employed by the Financial Services Group, 13,860 were employed by NationsBanc
Services, Inc. (a subsidiary providing operational support services to the
registrant and its subsidiaries) and the remainder were employed by the
registrant holding company and the registrant's other banking and operating
subsidiaries.
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
     The principal offices of the registrant are located in the 60-story
NationsBank Corporate which is Center in Charlotte, North Carolina which is 
owned by a subsidiary of the registrant. The registrant occupies approximately 
512,000 square feet at market rates under a lease which expires in 2002, and
approximately 593,000 square feet of office space is available for lease to
third parties at market rates. At December 31, 1994, approximately 96 percent
was occupied by the registrant or subject to existing third party leases or
letters of intention to lease.
     On January 3, 1995, NationsBank of North Carolina, N.A. merged with
NationsBank of South Carolina, N.A. to form NationsBank, N.A. (Carolinas)
("NationsBank Carolinas"). The principal offices of NationsBank Carolinas are
located in leased space in the 40-story NationsBank Plaza, Charlotte, North
Carolina. NationsBank Carolinas is the major tenant of the building with
approximately 648,000 square feet of the net rentable space, of which
approximately 459,000 square feet of space is under a lease which expires in
2009 and the remaining space is under leases of shorter duration.
     The principal South Carolina offices of NationsBank Carolinas are located
in approximately 93,000 square feet of leased space in the NationsBank Tower in
Columbia, under a lease which expires in 1995 and is in the process of being
renewed. NationsBank Carolinas, through subsidiaries, owns partnership interests
in the building and the underlying land. In addition, NationsBank Carolinas
maintains offices in approximately 81,000 square feet of leased space in
NationsBank Plaza in Columbia under a lease that expires in 1999. NationsBank
Carolinas has four five-year renewal options on this space.
     The principal offices of NationsBank of Texas, N.A. ("NationsBank Texas")
are located in approximately 667,000 square feet of leased space in the 72-story
NationsBank Plaza in Dallas. NationsBank Texas is the major tenant of the
building under a lease which expires in 2001 with renewal options through 2011.
 

     The principal offices of NationsBank of Florida, N.A. ("NationsBank
Florida") are located in approximately 273,000 square feet of leased space in
the NationsBank Plaza in downtown Tampa. The lease is on a staggered schedule
such that the upper floors expire in 1996 while the lower floors and branch bank
expire in 2000. NationsBank Florida has four five-year renewal options on this
space.
     The principal offices of NationsBank of Georgia, N.A. ("NationsBank
Georgia") are located in leased space in the 55-story NationsBank Plaza in
Atlanta. The registrant, through a subsidiary, is a partner in CSC Associates,
L.P., a partnership that was formed with Cousins Properties Incorporated for the
development and ownership of the office tower. NationsBank Georgia is the major
tenant of the building with approximately 579,000 square feet of the net
rentable space, under a lease that expires in 2012. NationsBank Georgia has
three ten-year renewal options on this space. Of the approximately 656,000
remaining square feet, 417,000 square feet has been leased to third parties,
with 239,000 remaining square feet available for lease to third parties at
market rates.
     On March 8, 1995, NationsBank of Virginia, N.A. merged with NationsBank,
N.A. to form NationsBank, N.A. The principal offices of NationsBank, N.A. are
located in approximately 383,000 square feet of space in NationsBank Center in
Richmond, Virginia, a facility that is owned by NationsBank, N.A. The remaining
approximately 152,000 square feet are leased to a third party tenant.
     The principal Maryland offices of NationsBank, N.A. are located in
approximately 145,000 square feet of leased space in the Rockledge Executive
Center in Bethesda under a lease that expires in 2002. NationsBank, N.A. has two
five-year renewal options on this space. The approximately 6,500 square feet of
space remaining is occupied by a third party under a sub-lease with NationsBank,
N.A. The sub-lease, which is at market rates, expires in April 1997 with one
five-year renewal option.
     The principal offices of NationsBank of Tennessee, N.A. ("NationsBank
Tennessee") are located in approximately 220,000 square feet of leased space in
NationsBank Plaza in Nashville under a lease that expires in 2012. NationsBank
Tennessee has two ten-year and one five-year renewal options on this space.
     The principal offices of NationsCredit are located in approximately 136,000
square feet of space in Allentown, Pennsylvania in a facility that is owned by
NationsCredit. In addition, NationsCredit has approximately 300 leased premises
around the country.
     The principal offices of Greyrock Capital Group Inc. are located in
approximately 42,880 square feet of leased space in Canterbury Green in
Stamford, Connecticut, under a lease which expires in 1997. Greyrock Capital
Group Inc., through subsidiaries or branch offices, leases space in the
following states: Alabama, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii,
Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada,
New Jersey, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas,
Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin.
     As of December 31, 1994, the registrant and its subsidiaries conducted
their banking and bank-related activities in both leased and owned facilities
throughout the jurisdictions in which the Banks are located, as follows:

 
 

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
     In the ordinary course of business, the registrant and its subsidiaries are
routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and threatened legal
actions and proceedings, including several actions brought on behalf of various
classes of claimants. In certain of these actions and proceedings substantial
money damages are asserted against the registrant and its subsidiaries and
certain of these actions and proceedings are based on alleged violations of
consumer protection, securities, banking and other laws. Management believes,
based upon the advice of counsel, that these actions and proceedings and losses,
if any, resulting from the final outcome thereof, will not be material in the
aggregate to the registrant's financial position or results of operations.
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
     There were no matters submitted to security holders in the fourth quarter
of the registrant's fiscal year.
                                    PART II
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
        SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS
     The principal market on which the registrant's Common Stock (the "Common
Stock") is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The registrant also listed
certain of its shares of Common Stock for trading on the Pacific Stock Exchange
and on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The high and low sales prices of Common Stock
on the Composite Tape, as reported in published financial sources, for each
quarterly period indicated below are as follows:

 
     As of December 31, 1994, there were 105,774 record holders of Common Stock.
During 1993 and 1994, the registrant paid dividends on the Common Stock on a
quarterly basis, which aggregated $1.64 per share in 1993 and $1.88 per share in
1994. For additional information regarding the registrant's ability to pay
dividends, see "Government Supervision and Regulation -- Distributions." The
seventh paragraph of Note 7 (page 69) and Note 10 (page 70) of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in the registrant's 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders are hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
     The information set forth in Table 1 (page 25) in the registrant's 1994
Annual Report to Shareholders is hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS
     All of the information set forth under the captions "Management's
Discussion and Analysis -- 1994 Compared to 1993" (pages 25 through 53),
"Management's Discussion and Analysis -- 1993 Compared to 1992" (pages 54 and
55), "Report of Management" (page 56) and all tables, graphs and charts
presented under the foregoing captions, in the 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference.
 

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
     The following information set forth in the 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference:
     The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of NationsBank Corporation and Subsidiaries, together with the report
thereon of Price Waterhouse LLP dated January 13, 1995 (pages 57 through 77);
the unaudited information presented in Table 22 (page 50); and the narrative
comments under the caption "Fourth Quarter Review" (page 51).
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
     There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on accounting
and financial disclosure as defined by Item 304 of Regulation S-K.
                                    PART III
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
     Information set forth under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 3
through 11 of the definitive 1995 Proxy Statement of the registrant furnished to
shareholders in connection with its Annual Meeting to be held on April 26, 1995
(the "1995 Proxy Statement") with respect to the name of each nominee or
director, that person's age, positions and offices with the registrant, business
experience, directorships in other public companies, service on the registrant's
Board and certain family relationships, and information set forth under the
caption "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934"
on page 14 of the 1995 Proxy Statement with respect to Section 16 matters, is
hereby incorporated by reference.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
     Pursuant to the Instructions to Form 10-K and Item 401(b) of Regulation
S-K, the name, age and position of each executive officer of the registrant are
listed below along with such officer's business experience during the past five
years. Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the meeting
of directors immediately following the annual meeting of shareholders. There are
no arrangements or understandings between any officer and any other person
pursuant to which any officer was selected.
     Fredric J. Figge, II, age 58, Chairman, Corporate Risk Policy of the
registrant and of the Banks. Mr. Figge was named Chairman, Corporate Risk Policy
in October, 1993 and prior to that time served as Chairman, Credit Policy of the
registrant and of the Banks. He first became an officer in 1987.
     James H. Hance, Jr., age 50, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of
the registrant. Mr. Hance was named Chief Financial Officer in August, 1988,
also served as Executive Vice President from March, 1987 to December 31, 1991
and was named Vice Chairman in October, 1993. He first became an officer in
1987. He also serves as a director of NationsBank, N.A., NationsBank Carolinas,
NationsBank Tennessee and various other subsidiaries of the registrant.
     Kenneth D. Lewis, age 47, President of the registrant. Mr. Lewis was named
to his present position in October, 1993. Prior to that time, from June, 1990 to
October, 1993 he served as President of the registrant's General Bank and from
August, 1988 to June, 1990, he served as President of NationsBank Texas. He
first became an officer in 1971. Mr. Lewis also serves as a director of
NationsBank, N.A., NationsBank Florida, NationsBank Georgia and NationsBank
Texas.
     Hugh L. McColl, Jr., age 59, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of the registrant and Chief Executive Officer of the Banks. He first
became an officer in 1962. Mr. McColl was Chairman of the registrant from
September, 1983 until December 31, 1991, and was re-appointed Chairman on
December 31, 1992. He also serves as a director of the registrant and
NationsBank Texas.
     Marc D. Oken, age 48, Executive Vice President and Principal Accounting
Officer of the registrant. He first became an officer in 1989.
     James W. Thompson, age 55, Vice Chairman of the registrant and Chairman of
NationsBank East. Mr. Thompson was named Vice Chairman in October, 1993, and as
Chairman of NationsBank East on
 

December 31, 1991. He first became an officer in 1963. He also serves as
chairman of the boards of directors of NationsBank, N.A. and NationsBank
Carolinas.
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
     Information with respect to current remuneration of executive officers,
certain proposed remuneration to them, their options and certain indebtedness
and other transactions set forth in the 1995 Proxy Statement (i) under the
caption "Board of Directors' Compensation" on pages 16 and 17 thereof, (ii)
under the caption "Executive Compensation" on pages 18 and 19 thereof, (iii)
under the caption "Retirement Plans" on pages 19 and 20 thereof, (iv) under the
caption "Deferred Compensation Plan" on pages 20 and 21 thereof, (v) under the
caption "Benefit Security Trust" on page 21 thereof, (vi) under the caption
"Stock Options" on page 22 thereof, (vii) under the caption "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" on page 29 thereof, and (viii)
under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages 29 through page 32 thereof,
is, to the extent such information is required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K,
hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
     The security ownership information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K
relating to persons who beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding shares
of Common Stock or ESOP Preferred Stock, as well as security ownership
information relating to directors, nominees and named executive officers
individually and directors and executive officers as a group, is hereby
incorporated by reference to the ownership information set forth under the
caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" on
pages 12 through 14 of the 1995 Proxy Statement.
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
     Information with respect to relationships and related transactions between
the registrant and any director, nominee for director, executive officer,
security holder owning 5% or more of the registrant's voting securities or any
member of the immediate family of any of the above, as set forth in the 1995
Proxy Statement under the caption "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation" on page 29 and under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages
29 through 32 thereof, is, to the extent such information is required by Item
404 of Regulation S-K, hereby incorporated by reference.
                                    PART IV
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
         FORM 8-K
          a. The following documents are filed as part of this report:

 


 
          b. The following reports on Form 8-K have been filed by the registrant
             during the quarter ended December 31, 1994:
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 28, 1994 and filed
             October 3, 1994, Item 5.
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 20, 1994 and filed
             December 22, 1994, Items 5 and 7.
          c. The exhibits filed as part of this report and exhibits incorporated
             herein by reference to other documents are listed in the Index to
             Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages E-1 through E-5,
             including executive compensation plans and arrangements which are
             identified separately by asterisk).
     With the exception of the information herein expressly incorporated by
reference, the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders and the 1995 Proxy Statement
are not to be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                        NATIONSBANK CORPORATION
Date: March 30, 1995                    By:   */s/    JAMES H. HANCE, JR.
                                                    JAMES H. HANCE, JR.
                                                     VICE CHAIRMAN AND
                                                  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                                               (PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER)
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

                                      II-1
 


 
                                      II-2
 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
   

    
                                      E-1
 

   

    
                                      E-2
 

   

    
                                      E-3
 

   

    
 
* Denotes executive compensation plan or arrangements.
                                      E-4
 



