
10-K
form10k2008.txt


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2008
                        Commission file number 002-26821

                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                                   61-0143150
       (State or other jurisdiction of                        (IRS Employer
        incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

             850 Dixie Highway                                    40210
            Louisville, Kentucky                                (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (502) 585-1100

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of Each Exchange
              Title of Each Class                         on Which Registered
              -------------------                        ----------------------
Class A Common Stock (voting) $0.15 par value            New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock (nonvoting) $0.15 par value         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
  Section 12(g) of the Act:                              None


Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes [ ]  No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X] No[ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and
"smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer [X]                  Accelerated filer [ ]
Non-accelerated filer [ ]                    Smaller reporting company [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes [ ]  No [X]

The aggregate market value, as of the last business day of the most recently
completed second fiscal quarter, of the voting and nonvoting equity held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $4,800,000,000.

The number of shares outstanding for each of the registrant's classes of
Common Stock on May 31, 2008 was:
     Class A Common Stock (voting)            56,570,292
     Class B Common Stock (nonvoting)         64,023,374

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated
by reference into Parts I, II, and IV of this report.  Portions of the Proxy
Statement of Registrant for use in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held July 24, 2008 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.



                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business

Brown-Forman Corporation ("we," "us," or "our" below) was incorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware in 1933,  successor to a business  founded in 1870
as  a  partnership  and  subsequently   incorporated   under  the  laws  of  the
Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901.

We primarily  manufacture,  bottle, import, export, and market a wide variety of
alcoholic beverage brands. Our principal beverage brands are:

     Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey               Fontana Candida Wines
     Southern Comfort                              Gala Rouge Wines
     Finlandia Vodka                               Herradura Tequila
     Gentleman Jack                                Jekel Vineyards Wines
     Jack Daniel's Single Barrel                   Korbel California Champagnes*
     Jack Daniel's Ready-to-Drinks                 Little Black Dress Wines
     Bel Arbor Wines                               Michel Picard Wines*
     Bolla Wines                                   New Mix Ready-to-Drinks
     Bonterra Vineyards Wines                      Old Forester Bourbon
     Canadian Mist Blended Canadian Whisky         Pepe Lopez Tequilas
     Chambord Liqueur                              Sanctuary Wines
     Don Eduardo Tequila                           Sonoma-Cutrer Wines
     Early Times Kentucky Whisky                   Tuaca Liqueur
     el Jimador Tequila                            Stellar Gin
     Eleven Tongues Wines                          Virgin Vines Wines*
     Fetzer Wines                                  Wakefield Wines*
     Five Rivers Wines                             Woodford Reserve Bourbon

  *  Brands represented in the U.S. and/or other select markets by Brown-Forman


The  most  important  brand  in our  portfolio  is Jack  Daniel's,  which is the
fourth-largest  premium spirits brand and the largest selling  American  whiskey
brand in the world according to volume statistics  recently  published by Impact
Databank, a well-known trade publication.  Our other leading brands are Southern
Comfort,  the second-largest  selling liqueur in the United States, and Canadian
Mist, the fourth-largest  selling Canadian whiskey  worldwide,  according to the
recently  published volume statistics  referenced above. Our largest wine brands
are Fetzer,  Korbel, and Bolla,  generally selling in the $6-11 per bottle price
range.  We believe the  statistics  used to rank these  products are  reasonably
accurate.

Geographic  information  about net sales and long-lived  assets is in Note 13 of
the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on page 47 of our 2008 Annual
Report to Stockholders,  which  information is incorporated  into this report by
reference.

Our strategy is to market high quality  products that satisfy the preferences of
consumers of legal  drinking age and to support those  products  with  extensive
international,  national,  and regional marketing  programs.  These programs are
intended to extend consumer brand recognition and brand loyalty.

We own  numerous  valuable  trademarks  that  are  essential  to  our  business.
Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the
trademarks are in use. Through  licensing  arrangements,  we have authorized the
use of some of our  trademarks on promotional  items for the primary  purpose of
enhancing brand awareness.

Customers

In the  United  States,  we sell  spirits  and wines  either  through  wholesale
distributors  or  directly to state  governments  in those  states that  control
alcohol  sales.  The contracts that we have with many of our  distributors  have
formulas that determine  reimbursement to distributors if we terminate them. The
amount  of  reimbursement  is based  primarily  on the  distributor's  length of
service and a percentage of its purchases  over time.  Some states have statutes
that limit our ability to terminate distributor contracts.

Our principal export markets are the United Kingdom, Australia,  Mexico, Poland,
Germany, Spain, Canada, France, the Czech Republic,  Italy, South Africa, China,
Japan,  and Russia.  We use a variety of distribution  models outside the United
States. Our preference for a particular arrangement depends on our assessment of
a  market's  long-term   competitive  dynamics  and  our  portfolio's  stage  of
development  in that  market.  We own and  operate our  distribution  network in
several markets, including Australia,  China, the Czech Republic, Korea, Mexico,
Poland, and Thailand.  In the United Kingdom and Germany,  we have joined forces
with another supplier,  Bacardi, to sell our and their products. In all of these
markets,  we sell our beverage alcohol products directly to retail stores and to
wholesalers.  In many other  markets,  we use third  parties to  distribute  our
portfolio of brands.

Ingredients and Other Supplies

The principal raw materials  used in  manufacturing  and packaging our distilled
spirits are corn, rye, malted barley, agave, sugar, glass, cartons, and wood for
new white oak barrels, which are used for storage of bourbon, Tennessee whiskey,
and certain tequilas. Currently, none of these raw materials is in short supply,
and there are adequate sources from which they may be obtained, but shortages in
some of these can occur.

Due to aging requirements, production of whiskeys and other distilled spirits is
scheduled  to meet  demand  three to ten years in the future.  Accordingly,  our
inventories  may be larger in relation  to sales and total  assets than would be
normal for most other businesses.

The  principal  raw  materials  used in the  production  of  wines  are  grapes,
packaging  materials and wood for wine barrels.  Grapes are primarily  purchased
under contracts with  independent  growers and, from time to time, are adversely
affected by weather and other forces that may limit production.  We believe that
our relationships with our growers are good.

Competition

The wine and spirits industry is highly  competitive,  and there are many brands
sold in the consumer market. Trade information  indicates that we are one of the
largest wine and spirits suppliers in the United States in terms of revenues.

Regulatory Environment

The  Alcohol  and Tobacco  Tax and Trade  Bureau of the United  States  Treasury
Department  regulates the wine and spirits  industry with respect to production,
blending,  bottling, sales, advertising and transportation of industry products.
Also, each state regulates the advertising, promotion, transportation, sale, and
distribution of such products.

Under  federal  regulations,  whiskey  must be aged for at least two years to be
designated  "straight  whiskey." We age our  straight  whiskeys for a minimum of
three to six years.  Federal  regulations  also require that "Canadian"  whiskey
must be manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws and must be aged
in Canada for at least three years.  We believe we are in compliance  with these
regulations.

Employees

As of April 30, 2008, we employed about 4,466 persons,  including  approximately
331  employed  on a  part-time  or  temporary  basis.  We believe  our  employee
relations are good.

Available Information

You may  read  and copy any  materials  that we file  with the SEC at the  SEC's
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington,  D.C. 20549.  Information
on  the  Public   Reference   Room  may  be  obtained  by  calling  the  SEC  at
1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition,  the SEC  maintains an Internet site that contains
reports,  proxy and  information  statements,  and other  information  regarding
issuers that file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

Our  website  address  is  www.brown-forman.com.  Please  note that our  website
address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. Our annual reports on
Form 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any
amendments to these reports are available  free of charge on our website as soon
as reasonably  practicable after we  electronically  file those reports with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission.  The information provided on our website is
not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference,  unless
such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.

On our website, we have posted our Corporate Governance Guidelines,  our Code of
Conduct and Compliance Guidelines that apply to all directors and employees, and
our Code of  Ethics  that  applies  specifically  to our  senior  executive  and
financial officers. We have also posted on our website the charters of our Audit
Committee,  Compensation  Committee,  and Corporate  Governance  and  Nominating
Committee.  Copies  of these  materials  are also  available  free of  charge by
writing to our  Secretary,  Matthew E.  Hamel,  850 Dixie  Highway,  Louisville,
Kentucky 40210 or e-mailing him at Secretary@b-f.com.

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect
our  business.  There are also other risks that are not  presently  known or not
presently  material,  as well as the other information set forth in this report,
which could affect materially our business. In addition, in our periodic filings
with the SEC,  press  releases and other  statements,  we discuss  estimates and
projections   regarding  our  future  performance  and  business  outlook.  Such
"forward-looking  statements," by their nature, involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors that in some cases are out of our control. These
factors could cause our actual results to differ  materially from our historical
experience  or our present  expectations  and  projections.  The  following is a
non-exclusive discussion of such risks and uncertainties.

OUR BUSINESS  MAY BE  ADVERSELY  AFFECTED BY  UNFAVORABLE  ECONOMIC  CONDITIONS,
PARTICULARLY  IN THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER MARKETS WHOSE  ECONOMIES ARE LINKED
TO THAT OF THE U.S.

In fiscal  2008,  nearly  half of our net sales were in the United  States.  Our
business  prospects  generally  depend heavily on the health of the U.S. economy
and the local  economies of a number of countries  whose economies are linked to
that of the U.S.  Difficult  economic  conditions  may  result  from a number of
factors, including higher energy prices, declining home prices, deterioration of
the lending markets,  decreased  discretionary  income, major natural disasters,
widespread  outbreak of infectious  diseases such as avian influenza,  terrorist
attacks  and related  subsequent  events,  including  the U.S.  response,  other
hostile acts,  retaliation,  war, threats of any of these, and other factors. In
difficult economic times, consumers may reduce discretionary spending,  decrease
their bar,  restaurant and hotel spending,  purchase  beverage  alcohol on fewer
occasions,  and shift to  lower-priced  products.  For all of these  reasons,  a
continuation of the  deterioration in general economic  conditions in the United
States could adversely affect our sales and earnings.

OUR GLOBAL GROWTH IS SUBJECT TO A NUMBER OF ECONOMIC,  COMMERCIAL  AND POLITICAL
RISKS.

We currently market products in more than 135 countries. Significant markets for
us in terms of  revenue  and  profits  include  the United  Kingdom,  Australia,
Germany,  Poland,  Mexico,  South  Africa,  Spain,  France,  Canada,  the  Czech
Republic,  Italy,  China,  Japan,  and  Russia.  We expect our future  growth in
markets  outside  the U.S.  to  surpass  our  growth in this  country.  Emerging
markets, such as Central and Eastern Europe, Latin America, Russia and China, as
well as countries  that some companies  might consider to be developed  markets,
also provide significant growth opportunities for us.

If economic  conditions  deteriorate in our significant  global  markets,  or if
there is an increase in  anti-American  sentiment in the principal  countries to
which we export  our  beverage  products,  our  global  business  could  suffer.
Potentially unstable governments or legal systems,  intergovernmental  disputes,
military   conflicts,   local   labor   conditions   and   business   practices,
nationalizations, inflation, recession, U. S. laws regulating activities of U.S.
companies abroad, and laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, are
also risks due to the global nature of our business.  These and other political,
commercial and economic  uncertainties  in our various  markets around the world
may have a material adverse effect on our prospects or results of operation.

The long-term outlook for our beverage business anticipates continued success of
Jack Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey,  Southern Comfort,  Finlandia Vodka,  Tequila
Herradura,  el Jimador Tequila, and our other core spirits and wine brands. This
assumption is based in part on favorable demographic trends in the United States
and  many of our  global  markets  for the sale of wine  and  spirits.  If these
demographic trends do not translate into corresponding  sales increases,  we may
fail to meet our expectations for our global beverage business.

OUR OPERATIONS  SUBJECT US TO RISKS  ASSOCIATED WITH FOREIGN  CURRENCY  EXCHANGE
RATES.

Sales of our brands and our  purchases  of goods and  services in  international
markets  are  conducted  in local  currency.  Thus,  profits  from our  overseas
business  could be adversely  affected if the U.S.  dollar  strengthens  against
other currencies,  especially the British pound,  euro,  Australian  dollar, and
South African  rand,  because the local  currency  received from the sale of our
products would translate into fewer U.S. dollars. To the extent we are unable to
effectively  manage our  exposure to such  foreign  exchange  fluctuations,  our
financial results may suffer.

RISING COSTS OR  UNAVAILABILITY  OF INPUT  MATERIALS  COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL
RESULTS, AS COULD OUR INABILITY TO OBTAIN FINISHED GOODS.

If energy costs continue to rise or remain high, our transportation, freight and
other operating  costs,  such as distilling and bottling,  will likely increase.
Similarly, rising costs of grain, grapes, agave, wood, glass, plastic, and other
input materials and/or  associated labor costs would likely adversely affect our
financial  results.  We may not be able to pass along such cost increases to our
customers through higher prices.

Our products use a number of materials  and  ingredients  that we purchase  from
third party  suppliers.  Our ability to produce  our  products  hinges on having
available all of the raw materials,  ingredients,  bottle  closures,  packaging,
bottles,  cans,  and other  materials  used to make and  package  them;  without
sufficient  quantities of one or more key input  materials,  our  operations and
financial  results could suffer.  For instance,  only a few glass producers make
bottles  on a  scale  sufficient  for our  requirements  and a  single  producer
(Owens-Illinois)  supplies  virtually all of our glass  container  requirements.
Similarly,  a Finnish corporation (Altia plc) distills and bottles our Finlandia
products  for  us  pursuant  to an  exclusive  long-term  supply  agreement.  If
Owens-Illinois,  Altia or other of our key  suppliers  ceased being able to meet
our timing, quality or capacity requirements,  ceased doing business with us, or
increased  their  prices  and we could not  develop  alternative  cost-effective
sources of supply,  our  operations  and  financial  results  could be adversely
affected.  Additionally,  rising  energy and other  costs may  curtail  consumer
spending on  entertainment  and  discretionary  products,  thereby  resulting in
decreased purchases of our brands.

DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY DECREASE DUE TO CHANGES IN CONSUMER  PREFERENCES AND
TASTES.

We operate in a highly  competitive  marketplace.  Maintaining  our  competitive
position  depends on our continued  ability to offer products that have a strong
appeal to consumers. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors,
including  changes in demographic  and social trends,  and changes in dining and
beverage  consumption  patterns,  as they  have  from  time to time in the past.
Consumer  preferences  away from our premium brands in any of our major markets,
or from  our  ready-to-drink  products,  particularly  Jack  Daniel's  & Cola in
Australia (its largest  market) or New Mix, the el Jimador based  ready-to-drink
product we sell in Mexico, may adversely hurt our results of operations.

NATIONAL AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS OR UNDERTAKE INVESTIGATIONS
THAT COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS OR OUR  LIABILITIES,  OR THAT COULD LIMIT OUR WINE
AND SPIRITS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.

Our  operations  are  subject to  extensive  regulatory  requirements  regarding
advertising,   marketing,  labeling,   distribution  and  production.  Legal  or
regulatory   measures  against  beverage  alcohol  could  adversely  affect  our
business.  In particular,  governmental bodies in countries where we operate may
impose or increase  limitations on advertising  and promotional  activities,  or
adopt  other  non-tariff  measures  that  could  hurt our  sales.  In  addition,
particularly  in the United  States,  federal  officials  and  officials in some
states have begun  investigating  trade practices of beverage alcohol suppliers,
distributors  and  retailers.  Adverse  developments  in or as a result of these
regulatory measures and investigations or similar  investigations could hurt our
business.

TAX  INCREASES  AND CHANGES IN  ACCOUNTING  STANDARDS  COULD HURT OUR  FINANCIAL
RESULTS.

The wine and spirits business is highly sensitive to changes in taxes. Increases
in state or federal excise taxes in the U.S. could depress our domestic wine and
spirits business,  both through reducing overall  consumption and by encouraging
consumers  to  switch  to  lower-taxed   categories  of  beverage  alcohol.   No
legislation  to increase  U.S.  federal  excise  taxes on  distilled  spirits is
currently pending, but future increases are possible, as are taxes levied on the
broader  business  community.  From time to time,  state  and local  governments
increase beverage alcohol taxes. Changes to the U.S. presidency and Congress may
lead to significant  increases in taxes paid by beverage alcohol  producers,  as
well  as  the  business   community  at  large.  New  accounting   standards  or
pronouncements,  and changes in interpretation of existing standards, could have
a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods as well.

Tax rate  increases,  such as income  taxes,  excise  taxes,  value added taxes,
import and  export  duties,  and/or  tariff  barriers,  and the  suddenness  and
unpredictability  with which they can occur,  also affect our  beverage  alcohol
business  in the many  other  countries  in which we do  business.  In the past,
changes in tax rates in these markets have not been  significant  to our overall
business,  but as our sales outside the United  States  continue to grow and tax
regimes in these markets get  increasingly  onerous for our products,  this risk
becomes more pronounced.  For instance,  the Australian  government recently and
unexpectedly   imposed  a  significant  excise  tax  increase  on  spirits-based
ready-to-drink  products,  which could impede  sales of Jack  Daniel's & Cola in
that product's largest market.

IF THE SOCIAL  ACCEPTABILITY  OF OUR  PRODUCTS  DECLINES  OR  GOVERNMENTS  ADOPT
POLICIES AGAINST BEVERAGE  ALCOHOL,  OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY  ADVERSELY
AFFECTED.

Our ability to market and sell our alcohol beverage  products depends heavily on
both society's  attitudes  toward drinking and  governmental  policies that flow
from those  attitudes.  In recent  years,  there has been  increased  social and
political  attention  directed  at the  beverage  alcohol  industry.  The recent
attention  has  focused  largely on public  health  concerns  related to alcohol
abuse, including drunk driving,  underage drinking, and health consequences from
the misuse of beverage  alcohol.  Alcohol critics in the U.S.,  Europe and other
countries  around the world  increasingly  seek  governmental  measures  to make
beverage alcohol more expensive, less available, and more difficult to advertise
and promote.  If the social  acceptability  of beverage  alcohol were to decline
significantly,  sales of our products could materially decrease. Our sales would
also suffer if governments sought to ban or restrict  advertising or promotional
activities,  to limit  hours or  places  of sale,  or took  other  actions  that
discourage alcohol purchase or consumption.

LITIGATION COULD EXPOSE OUR BUSINESS TO FINANCIAL AND REPUTATIONAL RISK.

The courts have  dismissed  most of the recent  putative  class action  lawsuits
against spirits,  beer, and wine  manufacturers,  including  Brown- Forman.  The
suits had alleged that our  marketing  causes  illegal  alcohol  consumption  by
persons  under the  legal  drinking  age.  The  cases  not  dismissed  have been
withdrawn  voluntarily and that series of litigation is concluded.  However, the
attorneys  general in a number of U.S.  states  continue  to  investigate  trade
marketing  practices of beverage alcohol producers and wholesalers.  Lawsuits or
governmental  investigations  similar to these could hurt our  business  and the
overall industry.

PRODUCTION COST INCREASES MAY ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR BUSINESS,  ESPECIALLY  WINES
AND TEQUILAS.

Our California-based  wine operations have entered into long-term contracts with
various   growers  and   wineries  to  supply   portions  of  our  future  grape
requirements.  Most of the contracts  call for prices to be determined  based on
market  conditions,  within a certain range, and most of the contracts also have
minimum  tonnage  requirements.   Although  these  contracts  may  provide  some
protection  in times of  rising  grape  prices,  the  contracts  may  result  in
above-market costs during times of declining prices.  Likewise, our Mexico-based
tequila  operations  have entered into  long-term  contracts with land owners in
regions  where blue agave can be grown.  Most of these  contracts  require us to
plant,  maintain,  and harvest the agave,  plus  compensate  the owners based on
specified  percentages of the crop at the prevailing market price at the time of
harvest.   Instability  in  agave  market  conditions  could  cause  us  to  pay
above-market costs for some of the agave we use to produce tequila. There can be
no assurances as to the future  prevailing  market prices for grapes or agave or
our ability, relative to our competitors, to take advantage of changes in market
prices. Weather, changes in climate conditions, diseases, and other agricultural
uncertainties that affect the mortality,  health, yield or quality of grapes and
agave also present risks for these businesses.

CONSOLIDATION  AMONG,  INCREASED  COMPETITION BY OR POOR  PERFORMANCE BY SPIRITS
PRODUCERS,  WHOLESALERS  OR  RETAILERS  COULD  HINDER  THE  MARKETING,  SALE AND
DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS.

We use a number  of  different  business  models to market  and  distribute  our
products.  In the  United  States  we sell  our  products  either  to  wholesale
distributors   or,  in  those  states  that  control  alcohol  sales,  to  state
governments  who then  sell to  retail  customers  and  consumers.  In our other
markets around the world, we use a variety of route-to-consumer  frameworks, but
in many markets we rely largely on other  spirits  producers to  distribute  and
market our products.  Distributor,  wholesaler and retailer  consolidations have
not in the past negatively  affected our business.  Nevertheless,  consolidation
among  spirits  producers  overseas or  wholesalers  in the United  States could
hinder  the  distribution  and  sale of our  products  as a  result  of  reduced
attention and resource allocation to our brands during transition  periods,  the
possibility  that our brands may represent a smaller  portion of their business,
and/or  a  changing  competitive  environment.  We also  believe  that  our size
relative to that of our competitors gives us sufficient scale to succeed; but we
nevertheless  face a risk that a continuing  consolidation of the large beverage
alcohol companies could put us at a competitive disadvantage.

Retailers and  wholesalers of our products offer products that compete  directly
with ours for shelf space, promotional displays and consumer purchases. Pricing,
marketing and other competitive behavior by other suppliers, and by distributors
and retailers who sell their products  focused  against one or more of our major
products could also adversely affect the sales of our products and our financial
results.  In times of an economic  slowdown,  consumers tend to be  particularly
price  sensitive and make more of their  purchases in discount  stores and other
off-premise   establishments.   Therefore,  the  effects  of  these  competitive
activities may be more pronounced in a difficult economic climate.

WE MAY NOT SUCCEED IN OUR STRATEGIES FOR ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS.

From time to time,  we  acquire  additional  brands or  businesses,  such as our
recent purchases of the Casa Herradura business and Chambord Liqueur.  We intend
to  continue  to seek  acquisitions  that we  believe  will  increase  long-term
shareholder  value,  but we  cannot  assure  that we  will  be able to find  and
purchase  businesses at acceptable prices and terms. It may also prove difficult
to integrate acquired businesses and personnel into our existing operations, and
to bring  them into  conformity  with our trade  practice  standards,  financial
control  environment  and U.S.  public  company  requirements.  Integration  may
involve  significant  expenses  and  management  time  and  attention,  and  may
otherwise disrupt our business.  Our ability to grow the volumes and maintain or
increase  the profit  margins on the brands we acquire  will be important to our
future   performance.   For  instance,   our   expectations  for  future  profit
contribution  from the main brands we purchased in the Casa  Herradura  business
depend on our ability to grow the  Herradura  and el Jimador  brands in the U.S.
and other key tequila markets around the world.

Business  acquisitions also may expose us to unknown  liabilities,  the possible
loss of key customers and employees  knowledgeable  about the acquired business,
and risks  associated  with doing  business in  countries  or regions  with less
stable  governments,  political  climates,  and legal systems and/or  economies,
among other risks.  Acquisitions could also lead us to incur additional debt and
related interest expense, issue shares, and increase our contingent liabilities,
as well as to  experience  dilution in earnings per share and a reduction in our
return  on  invested  capital.   Acquisitions  may  cause  us  to  incur  future
restructuring  charges or impairment  losses on goodwill and  intangible  assets
with  an  indefinite  life,  which  may  also  adversely  affect  our  financial
performance.

We also  evaluate  from  time-to-time  the  potential  disposition  of assets or
businesses  that may no longer  help us meet our  growth,  return and  strategic
objectives.  In selling assets or businesses, we may not get a price or terms as
favorable  as we  anticipated.  We could also  encounter  difficulty  in finding
buyers  on  acceptable  terms  in  a  timely  manner,   which  could  delay  our
accomplishment  of  strategic  objectives.  Expected  cost  savings from reduced
overhead relating to the sold assets may not materialize.

TERMINATION OF OUR RIGHTS TO DISTRIBUTE AND MARKET AGENCY BRANDS INCLUDED IN OUR
PORTFOLIO COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

In  addition  to the brands our  company  owns,  we also  market and  distribute
products on behalf of other brand owners in selected markets, including the U.S.
Our rights to sell these agency  brands are based on contracts  with the various
brand owners, which have varying lengths, renewal terms, termination rights, and
other  provisions.  We earn a margin for these sales and also gain  distribution
cost efficiencies in some instances. Therefore, the termination of our rights to
distribute  agency brands included in our portfolio  could adversely  affect our
business.

COUNTERFEIT  PRODUCTION OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY RIGHTS, BRAND EQUITY AND OPERATING RESULTS.

The  beverage   alcohol   industry  is   experiencing   problems   with  product
counterfeiting and other forms of trademark infringement,  especially within the
Asian and Eastern European markets.  Given our dependence on brand  recognition,
we devote substantial resources on a worldwide basis to protect our intellectual
property  rights.  In  addition,  we have taken  steps to reduce the  ability of
others to  imitate  our  products.  Although  we believe  that our  intellectual
property  rights are legally  supported  in the markets in which we do business,
the protection afforded intellectual property rights varies greatly from country
to country.  Confusingly  similar,  lower quality or even dangerous  counterfeit
product could reach the market and adversely  affect our  intellectual  property
rights, brand equity and/or operating results.

In  addition,  sales of a brand might  diminish  because of a scare over product
contamination.  Actual  contamination  of our products or raw materials  used to
produce, ferment or distill them, whether arising deliberately by a third party,
or accidentally, could lead to below average product quality and even illness or
injury to consumers.  If a product  recall  becomes  necessary,  that also could
impede sales of the affected product or across our brand portfolio.

PRESS  ARTICLES  AND OTHER  PUBLIC MEDIA MAY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE AND BUSINESS
PERFORMANCE.

Press articles or other public media related to our company, brands,  personnel,
operations, business performance or prospects may affect our stock price and the
performance of our business,  regardless of the accuracy of the substance of the
communication.  Since  we  are a  branded  consumer  products  company,  adverse
publicity can hurt both our  company's  stock price and actual  performance,  as
consumers might steer away from brands or products that receive bad press.


Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments

None.


Item 2.  Properties

Significant properties are as follows:

Owned facilities:
   - Office facilities:
        - Corporate offices (including renovated historic structures)
          - Louisville, Kentucky

   - Production and warehousing facilities:
        - Lynchburg, Tennessee
        - Louisville, Kentucky
        - Collingwood, Ontario, Canada
        - Shively, Kentucky
        - Woodford County, Kentucky
        - Hopland, California
        - Paso Robles, California
        - Windsor, California
        - Livorno, Italy
        - Albany, Kentucky
        - Waverly, Tennessee
        - Blois, France
        - Amatitan, Mexico

Leased facilities:
   - Production and bottling facility in Dublin, Ireland
   - Warehousing facility in Mendocino County, California
   - Stave and heading mill in Jackson, Ohio

The lease terms expire at various dates and are generally renewable.

We believe that the facilities are in good condition and are adequate for our
business.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

Brown-Forman Corporation and many other manufacturers of spirits, wine, and beer
were  defendants  in a series  of  essentially  similar  putative  class  action
lawsuits seeking damages and injunctive relief for alleged marketing of beverage
alcohol  to  underage  consumers.  All of  the  cases  have  been  dismissed  or
withdrawn; therefore, this series of litigation is concluded.

Nine essentially  identical lawsuits were filed: "Hakki v. Adolph Coors Company,
et.al.,"  District of Columbia  Superior Court No. CD 03-9183  (November  2003);
"Kreft  v.  Zima  Beverage  Co.,  et.al.,"  District  Court,  Jefferson  County,
Colorado,  No. 04cv1827  (December 2003); and "Wilson v. Zima Company,  et.al.,"
U.S.  District  Court for the  Western  District  of North  Carolina,  Charlotte
Division,  No. 3:04cv141 ( January 2004);.  "Eisenberg v.  Anheuser-Busch," U.S.
District Court for the District of Northern Ohio, No. 1:04cv1081;  "Elizabeth H.
Sciocchette  v.  Advanced  Brands,"  Albany  County,  New York Supreme Court No.
102205  (February 16,  2005);  "Roger and Kathy  Bertovich v. Advanced  Brands,"
Hancock County,  West Virginia,  Circuit Court No. 05-C-42M (February 17, 2005);
"Jacquelin Tomberlin v. Adolph Coors," Dane County (Madison,  Wisconsin) Circuit
Court,  (February 23, 2005);  "Viola Alston v. Advanced  Brands,"  Wayne County,
Michigan,  Circuit Court No. 05-509294,  (March, 30, 2005), and "Craig Konhauzer
v. Adolph Coors  Company,"  Broward County Florida  Circuit Court,  No. 05004875
(March 30,  2005).  In  addition,  Brown-Forman  received in  February,  2004, a
pre-lawsuit notice under the California  Consumer Protection Act indicating that
the  same  lawyers  intend  to  file  a  lawsuit  there  against  many  industry
defendants,  including  Brown-Forman,  presumably  on the same  facts  and legal
theories; however, no action was filed in California.

Brown-Forman and the other defendants  successfully  obtained orders  dismissing
six of the cases: Kreft (Colorado) in October 2005; Eisenberg (Ohio) in February
2006;  Tomberlin  (Wisconsin) in March 2006; Hakki (D.C.) in March 2006;  Alston
(Michigan) in May 2006; and Bertovich (West Virginia) in August 2006.  Konhauzer
(Florida) and Sciocchette (New York) voluntarily withdrew their respective suits
before service of summons. The Wilsons (North Carolina) dismissed with prejudice
their complaint in November 2007. Each involuntary dismissal was appealed by the
respective  plaintiffs.  The Hakki  dismissal was affirmed by the D.C.  Court of
Appeals  in June  2007 and is  final.  The  consolidated  Alston  and  Eisenberg
dismissals  were affirmed by the Federal  Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit in July 2007;  plaintiffs  withdrew their Petition for Certiorari to the
United States Supreme Court in November 2007. The Colorado and Wisconsin  Courts
of Appeals affirmed the Kreft and Tomberlin dismissals, respectively, in October
2007; those opinions are final. The Bertoviches (West Virginia) in November 2007
withdrew their appeal to the Federal Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. As
all of the cases have been dismissed or withdrawn,  this series of litigation is
concluded.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.



Executive Officers of the Registrant


                                                Principal Occupation and
     Name                         Age             Business Experience
     ----                         ---       ---------------------------------

Paul C. Varga                      44       Chairman of the Company since August
                                            2007. Chief Executive Officer since
                                            August 2005. President and Chief
                                            Executive Officer of Brown-Forman
                                            Beverages (a division of the
                                            Company) from August 2003 to August
                                            2005. Global Chief Marketing Officer
                                            of Brown-Forman Beverages from 2000
                                            to August 2003.

Donald C. Berg                     53       Executive Vice President and Chief
                                            Financial Officer since May 2008.
                                            Senior Vice President and Director
                                            of Corporate Finance from July 2006
                                            to May 2008. President of
                                            Brown-Forman Spirits Americas from
                                            July 2003 to July 2006.

Matthew E. Hamel                   48       Executive Vice President, General
                                            Counsel, and Secretary since October
                                            2007. Associate General Counsel and
                                            Vice President, Law, of the
                                            Enterprise Media Group of Dow Jones
                                            & Company, Inc., from December 2006
                                            to October 2007. Vice President,
                                            General Counsel and Secretary of Dow
                                            Jones Reuters Business Interactive
                                            LLC (d/b/a Factiva) from December
                                            1999 to December 2006.

James S. Welch, Jr.                49       Vice Chairman, Executive Director
                                            of Corporate Affairs, Strategy,
                                            Diversity, and Human Resources since
                                            2007. Vice Chairman, Executive
                                            Director of Corporate Strategy and
                                            Human Resources from 2003 to 2007.
                                            Senior Vice President and Executive
                                            Director of Human Resources from
                                            1999 to 2003.

James L. Bareuther                 62       Executive Vice President and Chief
                                            Operating Officer of Brown-Forman
                                            since July 2006. Executive Vice
                                            President and Chief Operating
                                            Officer of Brown-Forman Beverages
                                            from August 2003 to July 2006.
                                            President of Brown-Forman Spirits
                                            Americas from 2001 to July 2003.

Mark I. McCallum                   53       Executive Vice President and Chief
                                            Brand Officer since May 2006.
                                            Senior Vice President and Chief
                                            Marketing Officer from July 2003 to
                                            May 2006.  Executive Vice President
                                            of Marketing for Darden Restaurants,
                                            Inc., from 2001 to 2003.

Jane C. Morreau                    49       Senior Vice President and Director
                                            of Finance, Accounting, and
                                            Technology since May 2008. Senior
                                            Vice President and Controller from
                                            December 2006 to May 2008. Vice
                                            President and Controller from August
                                            2002 to December 2006.



                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
         and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our Class A and Class B Common  Stock is traded on the New York  Stock  Exchange
(symbols "BFA" and "BFB," respectively).

Holders of record of Common Stock at April 30, 2008:
         Class A Common Stock (Voting)               3,417
         Class B Common Stock (Nonvoting)            4,028

The following table provides  information  about shares of our common stock that
we repurchased during the quarter ended April 30, 2008:



As  announced  on November  28,  2007,  our Board of  Directors  authorized  the
repurchase  of up to $200.0  million of  outstanding  Class A and Class B common
stock  over the  following  12  months,  subject  to market  and  certain  other
conditions.  Under this plan,  shares could be repurchased from time to time for
cash in open market  purchases,  block  transactions,  and privately  negotiated
transactions.  The shares  included in the above table were  acquired as part of
that share repurchase plan, which we completed in March 2008. Under the plan, we
repurchased  a total of  2,977,250  shares  (42,600 of Class A and  2,934,650 of
Class B) for $200.0 million,  plus broker commissions of less than $0.1 million.
The average repurchase price per share,  including  commissions,  was $68.76 for
Class A and $67.17 for Class B.

For the other  information  required by this item, refer to the section entitled
"Quarterly  Financial  Information"  at the front of the 2008  Annual  Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Selected  Financial Data" on page 20 of the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders,
which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 21 through 32 of the 2008 Annual
Report to  Stockholders,  and the section  entitled  "Important  Information  on
Forward-Looking   Statements"   on  page  51  of  the  2008  Annual   Report  to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices

Inflation  affects  the way we market  and price our  products  in many  markets
around the world.  In general,  and with respect to the most recent three fiscal
years,  we believe that we have been able to increase  prices to counteract  the
majority of the inflationary  effects on our net sales,  revenue and income from
continuing operations.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

For the information required by this item, refer to the section entitled "Market
Risks"  beginning on page 31 of the 2008 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

For the information  required by this item, refer to the Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  Reports of Management,
and Report of Independent  Registered Public Accounting Firm on pages 33 through
50 of the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which information is incorporated
into this report by reference.


Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure

None.


Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures

The Chief Executive  Officer ("CEO") and the Chief Financial  Officer ("CFO") of
Brown-Forman  (its principal  executive and principal  financial  officers) have
evaluated  the   effectiveness  of  the  company's   "disclosure   controls  and
procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e)  under the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934 (the  "Exchange  Act")) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based  on  that  evaluation,  the  CEO  and CFO  concluded  that  the  company's
disclosure  controls and  procedures:  are effective to ensure that  information
required to be disclosed by the company in the reports  filed or submitted by it
under the Exchange Act is recorded,  processed,  summarized, and reported within
the time periods  specified in the SEC's rules and forms;  and include  controls
and procedures  designed to ensure that information  required to be disclosed by
the company in such reports is  accumulated  and  communicated  to the company's
management,  including  the CEO and the CFO,  as  appropriate,  to allow  timely
decisions  regarding  required  disclosure.  There  has  been no  change  in the
company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  during the most recent
fiscal  quarter  that  has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.

For the other information  required by this item, refer to "Management's  Report
on  Internal  Control  over  Financial  Reporting"  and  "Report of  Independent
Registered  Public Accounting Firm" on pages 49 and 50 of the 2008 Annual Report
to  Stockholders,  respectively,  which  information is  incorporated  into this
report by reference.


Item 9B.  Other Information

None.


                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 24, 2008, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a) "Election of Directors" on pages 6 through 8 (for information on directors);
(b) "Corporate  Governance"  on page 9 (for  information on our Code of Ethics);
(c) "Section 16(a) Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance" on page 20 (for
information  on  delinquent  Section 16 filings);  and (d) "Audit  Committee" on
pages 21 and 22. Also, see the information  with respect to "Executive  Officers
of  the  Registrant"  under  Part  I  of  this  report,   which  information  is
incorporated herein by reference.

We will post any  amendments  to our Code of Ethics  that  applies  to our chief
executive  officer,  principal  financial  officer,   controller  and  principal
accounting  officer,  and any waivers  that are  required to be disclosed by the
rules of either the SEC or NYSE on our website.

We filed  during the fiscal  year ended  April 30, 2008 with the NYSE the Annual
CEO Certification  regarding the Company's  compliance with the NYSE's Corporate
Governance  listing  standards  as  required by Section  303A-12(a)  of the NYSE
Listed Company  Manual.  In addition,  the Company has filed as exhibits to this
annual report and to the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30,
2007, the applicable certifications of its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief
Financial Officer required under Section 302 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
regarding the quality of the company's public disclosures.


Item 11.  Executive Compensation

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 24, 2008, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a)  "Executive  Compensation"  on pages 23 through  48;  and (b)  "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" on pages 54 and 55.


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
          Related Stockholder Matters

                      Equity Compensation Plan Information

In July 2004,  shareholders  approved the 2004 Omnibus  Compensation Plan as the
successor to both the 1994 Omnibus  Compensation Plan providing equity awards to
employees and the Non-Employee Directors ("NED") Plan providing equity awards to
non-employee  directors.  At the time the NED Plan was discontinued,  it had not
been submitted to  shareholders.  The following  table  provides  information on
these plans as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year:



For the other  information  required by this item, refer to the section entitled
"Stock  Ownership" on pages 15 through 20 of our definitive  proxy statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 24, 2008,  which  information
is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
          Independence

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 24, 2008, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a) "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" on pages 53 and 54; and (b)
"Corporate Governance" on pages 9 through 14.

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

For the information  required by this item, refer to the sections entitled "Fees
Paid to  Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm" and "Policy on Audit
Committee   Pre-Approval  of  Audit  and  Permissible   Non-Audit   Services  of
Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm" on page 22 of our  definitive
proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 24, 2008,
which information is incorporated into this report by reference.


                                     PART IV

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)  (1) and (2) - Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule:



All other  schedules for which  provision is made in the  applicable  accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange  Commission  have been omitted either
because  they are not  required  under the  related  instructions,  because  the
information  required is included in the consolidated  financial  statements and
notes thereto, or because they are not applicable.

*  Incorporated by reference to Item 8 in this report.


(a)  (3) - Exhibits: Filed with this report:

Exhibit Index
- -------------

     13      Brown-Forman Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
             year ended April 30, 2008, but only to the extent set forth in
             Items 1, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the year ended April 30, 2008.

     21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23      Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered
             public accounting firm.

     31.1    CEO Certification pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
             2002.

     31.2    CFO Certification pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
             2002.

     32      CEO and CFO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
             adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
             (not considered to be filed).

Previously Filed:
 Exhibit Index
- -------------

    2(a)     Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2006, among Chatham
             International Incorporated, Charles Jacquin et Cie., Inc., the
             Selling Stockholders and Brown-Forman Corporation, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on June 29, 2006.

    2(b)     Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 25, 2006, among Jose
             Guillermo Romo de la Pena, Luis Pedro Pablo Romo de la Pena, Grupo
             Industrial Herradura, S.A. de C.V., certain of their respective
             affiliates, Brown-Forman Corporation and Brown-Forman Tequila
             Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., a subsidiary of Brown-Forman
             Corporation, as amended, which is incorporated into this report by
             reference to Brown-Forman Corporation's Forms 8-K filed on
             August 29, 2006, December 22, 2006, January 16, 2007, and
             January 22, 2007.

    3(i)     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of registrant, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-Q filed on March 4, 2004.

    3(ii)    By-laws of Registrant, as amended on November 15, 2007, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on November 16, 2007.

      4      Form of Indenture dated as of March 1, 1994 between Brown-Forman
             Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as Trustee,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form S-3 (Registration  No. 33-52551) filed on
             March 8, 1994.

    10(a)    Brown-Forman Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 23, 1990.*

    10(b)    A description of the Brown-Forman Savings Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to page 10 of
             Brown-Forman's definitive proxy statement filed on June 27, 1996
             in connection with its 1996 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.*

    10(c)    Brown-Forman Corporation 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman's
             definitive proxy statement filed on June 30, 2004 in connection
             with its 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

    10(d)    Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 30, 2007 by and among
             Brown-Forman Corporation, Brown-Forman Beverages, Europe, LTD,
             certain borrowing subsidiaries and certain lender parties thereto,
             Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent and as a Lender,
             Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank Plc, National City Bank
             and Wachovia Bank, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents
             and as Lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent
             and as a Lender and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as London Agent.,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on May 2, 2007.

    10(e)    Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, as amended, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporations's Form 10-K filed on June 30, 2005.*

    10(f)    Form of Employee Stock Appreciation Right Award, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006.*

    10(g)    Form of Employee Non-Qualified Stock Option Award, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006.*

    10(h)    Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Appreciation Right Award, which
             is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006.*

    10(i)    Form of Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Award,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006.*

    10(j)    Summary of Director and Named Executive Officer Compensation.**

    10(k)    The description of the terms of $150,000,000 of Floating Rate Notes
             due 2010 and $250,000,000 of 5.2% Notes due 2012, which description
             is incorporated into this report by reference to the Indenture,
             the Officer's Certificate pursuant thereto and the 2010 and 2012
             global notes filed as exhibits to Brown-Forman Corporation's
             Form 8-K filed on April 3, 2007.

   10 (l)    First Amendment to the Brown-Forman Omnibus Compensation Plan
             Restricted Stock Agreement, which is incorporated into this report
             by reference to Brown-Forman's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
             year ended April 30, 2007, filed on June 28, 2007.*

   10 (m)    Second Amendment to the Brown-Forman 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan
             Restricted Stock Agreement, which is incorporated into this report
             by reference to Brown-Forman's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
             year ended April 30, 2007, filed on June 28, 2007.*

   10 (n)    Letter Agreement dated as of April 28, 2008, between Brown-Forman
             Corporation and Phoebe A. Wood, which is incorporated into this
             report by reference to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form 8-K filed on
             April 28, 2008.*

    14       Code of Ethics, which is incorporated into this report by reference
             to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 2, 2004.

 * Indicates management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.

** Incorporated by reference to the sections entitled "Executive Compensation"
   and "Director Compensation" in the Proxy Statement distributed in connection
   with our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on July 24, 2008, which is
   being filed in conjunction with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (Fiscal 2008
   compensation policies with respect to the company's directors and named
   executive officers will remain in effect until the company's Compensation
   Committee determines fiscal-year 2009 compensation at its July 2008 meeting.)




                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
                                                 (Registrant)



                                            /s/ Paul C. Varga
Date:  June 27, 2008                        By: Paul C. Varga
                                                Chairman and
                                                 Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities on June 27, 2008 as indicated:


/s/ Donald C. Berg
By: Donald C. Berg
    Executive Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer
    (Principal Financial Officer)


/s/ Barry D. Bramley
By: Barry D. Bramley
    Director


/s/ Geo. Garvin Brown IV
By: Geo. Garvin Brown IV
    Director, Presiding Chairman of the Board


/s/ Martin S. Brown, Jr.
By: Martin S. Brown, Jr.
    Director


/s/ Owsley Brown II
By: Owsley Brown II
    Director, Former Chairman of the Board


/s/ Donald G. Calder
By: Donald G. Calder
    Director


/s/ Sandra A. Frazier
By: Sandra A. Frazier
    Director


/s/ Richard P. Mayer
By: Richard P. Mayer
    Director


/s/ William E. Mitchell
By: William E. Mitchell
    Director


/s/ Jane C. Morreau
By: Jane C. Morreau
    Senior Vice President and Director
    of Finance, Accounting and Technology
    (Principal Accounting Officer)


/s/ Matthew R. Simmons
By: Matthew R. Simmons
    Director


/s/ William M. Street
By: William M. Street
    Director, Former President,
    Brown-Forman Corporation


/s/ Dace Brown Stubbs
By: Dace Brown Stubbs
    Director


/s/ Paul C. Varga
By: Director, Chairman and
    Chief Executive Officer


/s/ James S. Welch, Jr.
By: James S. Welch, Jr.
    Director, Vice Chairman







             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


To the Board of Directors
of Brown-Forman Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated  financial statements and of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial  reporting  referred to in our report dated June
27, 2008  appearing in the 2008 Annual Report to  Stockholders  of  Brown-Forman
Corporation and Subsidiaries (which report and consolidated financial statements
are  incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included
an audit of the  financial  statement  schedule  listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this
Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in
all  material  respects,   the  information  set  forth  therein  when  read  in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.




/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
June 27, 2008

                                      S-1



                    BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               For the Years Ended April 30, 2006, 2007, and 2008
                            (Expressed in thousands)



 (1) Amount recorded as part of the Casa Herradura acquisition.
 (2) Doubtful accounts written off, net of recoveries.

                                      S-2


                                                                   Exhibit 13



                              FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
          (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts and ratios)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                              2007        2008     % Change
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Net Sales                                        $2,806      $3,282       17%
Gross Profit                                     $1,481      $1,695       14%
Operating Income                                 $  602      $  685       14%
Net Income                                       $  400      $  440       10%
Earnings Per Share
 - Basic                                         $ 3.26      $ 3.59       10%
 - Diluted                                       $ 3.22      $ 3.55       10%
Return on Average Invested Capital                 17.4%       17.2%
Gross Margin                                       52.8%       51.6%
Operating Margin                                   21.5%       20.9%



                         QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
               (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts)

Note: Quarterly amounts may not add to amounts for the year due to rounding.



                             SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
          (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts and ratios)
                              Year Ended April 30,


Notes:
1.  Includes the consolidated results of Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, Finlandia
    Vodka Worldwide, Tuoni e Canepa, Swift & Moore, Chambord, and Casa Herradura
    since their acquisitions in April 1999, December 2002, February 2003,
    February 2006, May 2006, and January 2007, respectively.
2.  Weighted average shares, earnings per share, and cash dividends declared
    per common share have been adjusted for a 2-for-1 common stock split in
    January 2004.
3.  We define Return on Average Invested Capital as the sum of net income
    (excluding extraordinary items) and after-tax interest expense, divided by
    average invested capital.  Invested capital equals assets less liabilities,
    excluding interest-bearing debt.
4.  We define Return on Average Stockholders' Equity as net income applicable
    to common stock divided by average stockholders' equity.
5.  We define Total Debt to Total Capital as total debt divided by the sum of
    total debt and stockholders' equity.
6.  We define Dividend Payout Ratio as cash dividends divided by net income.



                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

In  the  discussion  below,  we  review  Brown-Forman's  consolidated  financial
condition and results of  operations  for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2006,
2007,  and 2008. We also predict our  anticipated  financial  performance,  make
other forward-looking statements, and discuss factors that may affect our future
financial  condition  and  performance.  We have  prepared  a list of some  risk
factors  that  could  cause  actual  results  to  differ   materially  from  our
anticipated  results.  Please read this  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis
section in conjunction with our consolidated  financial  statements for the year
ended  April  30,  2008,  their  related  notes,  and the  important  disclaimer
regarding forward-looking statements on page 51.

As discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying financial statements,  we sold Lenox,
Inc.  during fiscal 2006, and sold Brooks & Bentley and Hartmann in fiscal 2007.
As  a  result,  we  have  reported  them  as  discontinued   operations  in  the
accompanying financial statements.

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Brown-Forman  Corporation  is a producer and marketer of  fine-quality  consumer
beverage  alcohol  products,  including  Jack Daniel's and its family of brands;
Southern Comfort;  Finlandia;  Tequila Herradura;  el Jimador Tequila;  Canadian
Mist; Fetzer, Bolla,  Bonterra,  and Sonoma- Cutrer wines; and Korbel California
Champagne.  We market and sell various  categories of beverage alcohol products,
such as Tennessee, Canadian, and Kentucky whiskies; Kentucky bourbon; California
sparkling wine; tequila;  table wine;  liqueurs;  vodka; gin; and ready-to-drink
products.

Our Markets

We sell  our  brands  in more  than 135  countries.  For the  first  time in our
company's  history,  in fiscal  2008 more  than  half of total  sales  came from
markets  outside of the U.S. But our largest and most  important  single  market
remains  the U.S.,  where 48% of our net sales were  generated  in fiscal  2008,
compared  to 53% in  fiscal  2007.  Our sales  grew 31%  outside  the U.S.  when
compared to fiscal 2007, while sales in the U.S. grew 4%.

Net sales in  Europe,  our  second  largest  region,  grew 17% in  fiscal  2008,
influenced in part by a weaker U.S. dollar as well as by solid underlying growth
in a number of markets,  particularly in Eastern Europe.  Europe represented 29%
of total net sales in fiscal 2008. Net sales from the rest of the world (outside
Europe and the U.S.) were up 55% in fiscal  2008 and now  constitute  23% of our
total net sales. The double-digit increase in net sales reflects the acquisition
of Casa  Herradura  and its  related  sales  outside of the U.S.,  primarily  in
Mexico, and solid growth for several other brands in our portfolio in Australia,
Canada, Latin America, and various Asian markets.

International  expansion  continues  to  provide a  significant  portion  of our
growth,  as it has over the past decade.  In fact,  markets  outside of the U.S.
contributed  more than 85% of the overall  growth in  consolidated  net sales in
fiscal 2008 and  constituted  approximately  52% of our total reported net sales
for the year.  Fifteen  years ago,  just prior to the adoption of our  strategic
initiative  to expand our  international  footprint,  net sales outside the U.S.
contributed  less  than  20%  of our  total  net  sales.  Today,  the  principal
international  markets  for our  brands  include  the U.K.,  Australia,  Mexico,
Poland, Germany, Spain, Canada, France, the Czech Republic, Italy, South Africa,
China,  Japan, and Russia. As we continue to expand outside of the U.S., foreign
exchange rate fluctuations  increasingly affect our financial results - in terms
of both  sales  from  goods  sold in local  currencies  and the  cost of  goods,
services,  and manpower purchased and paid in local currencies.  On a net basis,
we sell  more in local  currencies  than we buy,  thus  exposing  our  financial
results to the negative impact of a strengthening  U.S. dollar.  To help protect
against this, we regularly  hedge our foreign  currency  exposure.  But over the
long term,  reported  profits from our  international  business may be adversely
affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies.

Consumer  demand for premium  brands in the U.S.  continued  to expand this past
year, but at a lower growth rate than in fiscal 2007, reflecting the challenging
economic  environment  and  softening  on-premise  trends.   However,   positive
demographic trends,  continued consumer interest in spirits-based cocktails, and
some consumers'  trading up to premium  offerings helped maintain the growth for
premium spirits in the U.S. We anticipate that this environment will continue in
the U.S.,  but  consumer  preferences  can change  quickly and could  affect our
performance if we do not respond  quickly to changing  industry and  competitive
dynamics.  In the short term, the uncertain economic  conditions in the U.S. and
other key markets linked to the U.S.,  such as Western Europe and Mexico,  could
also hurt our performance.

                             Net Sales by Geography
                                 (in millions)

                              2006          2007          2008
                              ----          ----          ----
United States               $1,404        $1,498        $1,564
Europe                         709           816           955
Rest of World                  299           492           763
                            ------        ------        ------
Total                       $2,412        $2,806        $3,282
                            ======        ======        ======


Our Brands

Over the past  several  years,  we  delivered  growth in sales and  earnings  by
expanding our portfolio  geographically,  by introducing new brand offerings, by
adding new brands via acquisitions,  by taking price increases, and by divesting
non-core businesses. Our divestiture of our former consumer durables businesses,
completed in fiscal 2007, allows us to focus on optimizing  opportunities in the
beverage business.

We seized  upon two  opportunities  in fiscal  2007 to  further  strengthen  our
portfolio by buying Chambord liqueur and the Casa Herradura brands (including el
Jimador,  Herradura,  New Mix tequila-based  ready-to-drink,  Antiguo, and Suave
35). These brands  contributed to our growth in sales in the fiscal year and met
our other  expectations  for the year.  These brand  additions in the premium or
super-premium spirits categories,  in high-priority markets,  complement and fit
well in our portfolio of premium  brands.  We anticipate  that brands from these
acquisitions  will provide  long-term  earnings  growth at rates at or above our
historical average, strengthening our growth profile.



Our  brand  portfolio  approached  36  million  nine-liter  cases in  depletions
(shipments from distributors to retailers) in fiscal 2008. We also had 10 brands
with depletions exceeding 1 million nine-liter cases.

Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey  remains  the  most  important  brand  in our
portfolio and one of the largest,  most profitable  spirits brands in the world,
based on our  review of  industry  data.  Global  depletions  for Jack  Daniel's
increased 4% in fiscal 2008, approaching 9.5 million nine-liter cases, driven by
strong growth outside the U.S.

A positive  long-term  environment  for  premium  spirits,  increased  levels of
advertising  and  promotional  support,  and Jack Daniel's  overall  marketplace
strength have combined to provide solid growth in volumes and double-digit gains
in gross profit on a global basis.  A significant  percent of our total earnings
is derived from Jack  Daniel's,  and the brand's  growth is vital to our overall
marketplace  strength.  Accordingly,  it  remains  our  primary  focus.  While a
significant  decline in volume or selling  price for the brand could  materially
depress our overall earnings,  we are encouraged by the accelerating  geographic
diversification  of the brand's  profits,  which  continued in fiscal 2008,  and
favorable  demographic  trends in the U.S. and around the world. We believe this
brand has continued global growth potential and upward pricing opportunities.

The Jack Daniel's  family of brands,  which  includes  Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee
Whiskey,  Gentleman Jack,  Jack Daniel's Single Barrel,  and the Jack Daniel's &
Cola  ready-to-drink  (measured  on a  drinks-equivalent  basis)  crossed the 10
million case mark - and together grew volumes at an impressive 6% rate globally,
with  reported  net  sales  advancing  12%.  These  brands  are an  increasingly
important source of annual growth. Our recently repackaged  Gentleman Jack brand
was the fastest-growing  brand in our portfolio,  growing over 40%, with volumes
well in  excess  of  200,000  nine-liter  cases in fiscal  2008.  A very  recent
development - an increase in the tax on  ready-to-drink  products in Australia -
will  likely  create some  headwinds  in fiscal 2009  because  Australia  is our
largest and most significant  market for Jack Daniel's & Cola. The brand is also
important to our continued growth in the Asia-Pacific region.

Southern  Comfort and Finlandia are the next two most  important  brands for us.
Southern  Comfort  delivered  6% growth in net sales on flat  volumes,  as solid
growth outside the U.S. was offset by declines in the U.S. (the brand's  largest
market).  Finlandia  surpassed  Southern  Comfort in volumetric  terms in fiscal
2008, with its depletion trends accelerating 16%, led by strong growth in Poland
(the brand's largest market,  at over 800,000  nine-liter  cases) and Russia. In
contrast  to  Jack  Daniel's  and  Southern  Comfort,  we  sell  nearly  90%  of
Finlandia's  2.8  million  nine-liter  cases  outside of the U.S. We expect both
Southern  Comfort and  Finlandia to  contribute  significantly  to our long-term
growth.

Our mid-priced brands had mixed results during fiscal 2008. Depletions increased
for Fetzer's Valley Oaks wines and Korbel California  Champagnes,  but decreased
for Bolla,  Canadian  Mist,  and Early Times.  These  large,  off-premise-driven
category  leaders remain  important  contributors to our earnings and cash flow,
and compete in extremely price-competitive categories that will likely intensify
in the short term with the  difficult  economic  environment  in the U.S.  While
these  brands  could  benefit  from  consumers  trading  down or from a shift of
on-premise sales to off-premise sales during a soft economy, we have only modest
growth expectations for most of these brands.

Our  brands  that  compete  in  the   super-premium   price  category   expanded
significantly  with the acquisitions of Chambord and the Casa Herradura  brands.
These acquired brands accounted for  approximately 40% of total net sales growth
in fiscal 2008. We believe these super-premium  brands and the developing brands
in our portfolio represent  significant  worldwide growth  opportunities for us.
While volume growth rates for  super-premium  brands in the U.S. are not as high
as they  have  been over the last  several  years,  we  continue  to  experience
double-digit depletion growth for several of our brands priced in this category,
including Bonterra,  Gentleman Jack, and Woodford Reserve.  Each of these brands
reported  global net sales gains of at least 20% in fiscal  2008.  In  addition,
Tuaca,  Sonoma-Cutrer,  and Chambord continued to register solid depletion gains
and combined to grow net sales at a double-digit  rate. We remain  encouraged by
the growth  prospects  for these brands and believe  they have the  potential to
contribute meaningfully to our future earnings, especially as we expand the Casa
Herradura tequila brands across our geographic portfolio.

Our Route-to-Consumer Strategy

Introduced  five years ago, the  Brown-Forman  Arrow  captures  our  overarching
objective to "Be the Best Brand Builder in the  Industry,  Period!" and the five
supporting  imperatives  that  reach that goal.  Our  strategies  grow from this
overarching objective.

A critical  component of our brand-building  strategy is a multifaceted  program
designed to ensure that  consumers  can find our products  whenever and wherever
they have an opportunity to choose a premium  beverage  alcohol brand.  We use a
variety of distribution  models around the world to implement this program.  Our
preference for a particular arrangement or partnership depends on our assessment
of a  market's  long-term  competitive  dynamics  and our  portfolio's  stage of
development  in that  market.  We own and  operate our  distribution  network in
several markets, including Australia,  China, the Czech Republic, Korea, Mexico,
Poland, and Thailand.  In the United Kingdom and Germany,  we have joined forces
with another supplier,  Bacardi, to sell our and their products. In all of these
markets,  we sell our beverage alcohol products directly to retail stores and to
wholesalers.  In many other markets, including the U.S., we use third parties to
distribute our portfolio of brands.

The  distribution  environment  in the U.S.  continued to change this past year,
with a number of  distributor  consolidations.  In the  U.S.,  we formed a sales
alliance  with  Bacardi and Remy  Cointreau  in a few key states.  Our  alliance
provides for focused sales teams within our distributors in these states to sell
the  strong,  complementary  portfolio  of the  three  companies,  while we each
continue  our  own  unique,   independent   brand  building  to  supplement  the
distributor's  effort. We have been evaluating  options to further this alliance
in other parts of the U.S.



During  fiscal  2008,  we  decided  to combine  our brand  portfolio  in Mexico.
Effective June 1, 2008, we began to integrate our existing brands into the sales
and marketing  operation we acquired with Casa  Herradura.  Meanwhile,  over the
next 12 to 24  months,  several of our  distribution  contracts  in Europe  will
expire.  We are  carefully  reviewing  our  distribution  arrangements  in these
markets,  and as always,  we will seek out strategies and/ or partnerships  that
can improve our in-market brand-building efforts.

Our Competition

Our brands operate in a highly  competitive  industry.  We compete  against many
global,  regional,  and local brands in several  categories  and price points of
beverage  alcohol,  but  our  portfolio  is  skewed  to the  premium  end of the
industry.  Trade  information  indicates that we are one of the largest wine and
spirits suppliers in the U.S. based on revenues.

Our Earnings Outlook

Our fiscal 2009 earnings  outlook of $3.73 to $3.98 per diluted  share  reflects
our expectations for continued solid international growth,  improving trends for
both Jack Daniel's and Southern Comfort in the U.S., and strong growth from Casa
Herradura  brands in the U.S.  Additionally,  we have  incorporated  anticipated
increases  in raw material  and fuel costs as well as  continued  leverage  from
prior investments in selling,  general, and administrative  expenses into our 3%
to 10% operating  income  growth  expectations  for the year.  This outlook also
reflects our  expectations  for a higher effective tax rate, the benefits of the
fiscal  2008 share  repurchase,  and lower  interest  expense.  As a result,  we
currently expect fiscal 2009 earnings per diluted share growth of 5% to 12%.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our total company diluted  earnings per share were $3.56 in fiscal 2008, all but
$0.01 of which came from continuing operations.  The following discussion of our
results from  continuing  operations  excludes the results related to the former
Consumer Durables segment,  which we have segregated from continuing  operations
and  reflected  as  discontinued  operations  for  all  periods  presented.  See
"Discontinued Operations" on page 29.

CONTINUING OPERATIONS

Continuing  operations consist of our beverage  business,  which includes strong
brands representing a wide range of varietal wines, champagnes, and spirits such
as whiskey,  bourbon,  vodka,  tequila,  and liqueur. The largest market for our
brands is the U.S.,  which  generally  prohibits wine and spirits  manufacturers
from selling their products directly to consumers. Instead, we sell our products
to wholesale distributors or state-owned  operators,  who then sell the products
to  retailers,  who  in  turn  sell  to  consumers.  We  use  a  similar  tiered
distribution  model in many markets  outside the U.S., but we distribute our own
products in several  markets,  including  Australia,  China, the Czech Republic,
Korea, Mexico, Poland, and Thailand.

Distributors  and  retailers  normally  keep  some  of our  products  on hand as
inventory,  so  retailers  can sell more (or less) of our  products to consumers
than  distributors  buy from us during any given  period.  Because we  generally
record  revenues  when we ship our  products to  distributors,  our sales do not
necessarily  reflect  actual  consumer  demand  during  any  particular  period.
Ultimately,  of  course,  consumer  demand  is  critical  in  understanding  the
underlying health and financial results of our brands and business. The beverage
alcohol industry  generally uses depletions  (defined on page 22) to approximate
consumer demand. We also utilize syndicated data and monitor inventory levels in
the trade to confirm that depletions are representative of consumer demand.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007

Net sales  approached $3.3 billion,  a record in fiscal 2008, and an increase of
17% over net sales in fiscal  2007.  For the first  time in our  history,  sales
outside the U.S.  constituted more than half (52%) of the total; just five years
ago, sales outside the U.S.  constituted less than 30% of our total sales.  This
shift in the geographic mix of our sales reflects an accelerating demand for our
portfolio in markets  outside the U.S., the effect of acquired  brands,  and the
benefits of a weaker U.S.  dollar.  Over 85% of the $476 million increase in our
net sales for fiscal 2008 came from markets outside the U.S.

The major factors driving our fiscal 2008 sales increase were:

                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2007
Acquisitions                                    7%
Foreign exchange                                4%
Underlying net sales growth:                    6%
   Volume                    4%
   Price/Mix                 2%
                                              -----
Reported net sales growth                      17%
                                              =====

In the table  above,  "Acquisitions"  refers to the effect our Chambord and Casa
Herradura   acquisitions,   which   occurred  in  May  2006  and  January  2007,
respectively, had on our results. Significant acquisitions can make year-to-year
comparisons  difficult to understand.  We believe disclosing the effect of these
acquisitions  separately  clarifies  the  underlying  year-to-year  changes  and
provides   helpful   information   in   forecasting   and  planning  our  growth
expectations.

"Foreign  exchange"  refers to net gains and  losses  incurred  by our sales and
purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  We disclose this separately
to explain our business growth on a constant dollar basis, because exchange rate
fluctuations  distort the underlying growth of our business (both positively and
negatively).  To filter  out the  effect of foreign  exchange  fluctuations,  we
translate  current year results at prior year rates.  In fiscal 2008, the weaker
U.S.  dollar  benefited  our net sales,  gross  profit,  operating  income,  and
earnings  per  share  but  hurt  our  advertising  and  selling,   general,  and
administrative expenses. Although foreign exchange volatility is a reality for a
global company, we routinely review our company performance on a constant dollar
basis. We believe that separately identifying the effect foreign exchange has on
each major  line item of the  consolidated  statement  of  operations  makes our
underlying business performance more transparent.

Fiscal 2008 was  another  solid year for Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey,  as
volume  increased  for  the  16th  consecutive  year,  approaching  9.5  million
nine-liter cases. Consumer demand continued to expand for this iconic, authentic
American  whiskey,  as the brand added 375,000  nine-liter cases globally to its
already  large  base,  growing  more  than 4% over the  prior  year.  Depletions
expanded 8% outside the U.S., with geographically diverse,  broad-based gains in
many markets,  while net sales grew nearly 17%. The most notable case  increases
were in the U.K.  (the brand's  largest  market  outside the U.S.,  where annual
volumes  now  approach 1 million  nine-liter  cases),  France,  Poland,  Russia,
Romania,  and  Turkey.  Both  volumes  and net sales  improved in the low single
digits in the brand's largest market, the U.S.



The overall  distilled  spirits  category in the U.S.  continued  to grow during
fiscal 2008.  Industry trends,  as measured by National Alcohol Beverage Control
Association  (NABCA) data, indicate total distilled spirits volume grew 3.1% for
the 12 months ending April 30, 2008,  while Jack Daniel's in the U.S. grew about
1% for the same  period.  In our opinion,  several  factors  contributed  to the
industry-lagging growth for Jack Daniel's in this key market:

 - Jack Daniel's crossed the $20 and $40 price points in most U.S. markets on
   its two key sizes. We have seen temporary volume declines for this brand when
   it crossed through key price points before, and, as in the past, we expect a
   rebound this time, too.

 - "Trading down" has been affecting this brand recently, which derives its
   high-volume, premium-price business from a consumer franchise representing
   a broad range of household incomes. When economic times are challenging,
   as we are seeing in the U.S. today, some of our consumers seek cheaper
   alternatives.

 - Some consumers have "traded across" to other premium brands as our
   competition discounted more deeply.

 - To a lesser extent, "trading up" has also affected performance; we believe
   our recently repackaged Gentleman Jack brand benefited from this shift,
   showing strong growth for the year.

We have planned  numerous  initiatives  to ensure Jack  Daniel's  continues  its
relevance  in the current  competitive  consumer  environment.  As a result,  we
believe that Jack  Daniel's  growth rate in the U.S. will improve in fiscal 2009
and more closely  approximate that of the distilled spirits category  generally.
However,  if Jack Daniel's  growth rate in the U.S.  does not improve,  it could
reduce our earnings expectations for fiscal 2009.

Performance  for the rest of the Jack Daniel's family of brands was also strong.
Growing 10%, Jack Daniel's ready-to-drink products passed the 3 million cases on
the strength of Jack  Daniel's & Cola sales in Australia.  Meanwhile,  Gentlemen
Jack was the  fastest-growing  brand  in our  portfolio,  growing  over 40% with
volumes well in excess of 200,000 nine-liter cases in fiscal 2008.

Finlandia continues to be a major, and growing, contributor to our international
expansion.  Since taking a majority  stake in Finlandia in fiscal 2003,  we have
added more than 1 million cases to the brand's  annual  depletions.  Over 95% of
this incremental volume has been in international markets. The brand was a major
driver of growth for us in fiscal 2008. Global volumes advanced 16%,  surpassing
Southern Comfort in volumes sold, while net sales gained 33%,  reflecting volume
gains,  price  increases,  and  the  benefit  of  a  weak  U.S.  dollar.  Strong
double-digit  growth in many parts of Europe,  particularly  Poland, the brand's
largest market (where we sold over 800,000  nine-liter cases of the brand),  and
Russia (where we added over 100,000  nine-liter cases) fueled the brand's growth
for the year.

While Southern  Comfort global  depletions were flat in fiscal 2008, the brand's
net sales grew 6%,  reflecting  continued  premium  pricing in the U.S.  and the
benefits of a weaker dollar.  Southern Comfort  registered solid volume gains in
the U.K.  (the brand's  largest  market  outside the U.S.),  South  Africa,  and
Australia.  Low-single-digit  volume declines in the U.S. on a volumetric  basis
were more than offset by the effect of price  increases,  which led to net sales
growth of more than 1% in the brand's largest market.

Overall  volume  performance  was mixed for the other  brands in our  portfolio.
Bonterra,   Chambord,  Woodford  Reserve,  and  Sonoma-Cutrer  experienced  high
single-digit or double-digit increases. Fetzer Valley Oaks and Korbel California
Champagnes registered low single-digit  depletion growth.  Canadian Mist, Bolla,
and Early Times recorded modest depletion declines in fiscal 2008.

The following table highlights  worldwide depletion results for our major brands
during fiscal 2008:

                        Nine-Liter       % Change
                       Cases (000s)      vs. 2007
                       ------------     -----------

 Jack Daniel's            9,450              4%
 New Mix RTDs(1)          4,340              NA
 Other RTDs(2)            3,675              9%
 Finlandia                2,835             16%
 Southern Comfort         2,460              0%
 Fetzer Valley Oaks       2,355              2%
 Canadian Mist            1,895             (3%)
 Korbel Champagnes        1,305              2%
 Bolla                    1,130             (3%)

 (1) New Mix is a tequila-based RTD (ready-to-drink) brand we acquired
     in January 2007 as part of the Casa Herradura acquisition, and sold
     exclusively in Mexico.
 (2) Other RTD (ready-to-drink) products include Jack Daniel's and
     Southern Comfort products.


Gross profit is one of our key performance measures.  The same factors described
above that boosted  revenue  growth also fueled gross profit  growth.  In fiscal
2008, gross profit grew $214 million, or 14%, to approximately $1.7 billion. The
table below summarizes the major factors driving the gross profit growth for the
year.
                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2007
Acquisitions                                    4%
Foreign exchange                                4%
Underlying gross profit growth:                 6%
   Volume                    4%
   Price/Mix                 2%
                                              -----
Reported gross profit growth                   14%
                                              =====

Underlying  gross profit  growth of 6% was fueled  primarily  by solid  consumer
demand for Jack Daniel's,  Finlandia,  Jack Daniel's & Cola, and Gentleman Jack.
Price increases on several brands,  including Jack Daniel's,  Southern  Comfort,
Finlandia,  Canadian Mist, Early Times,  Sonoma- Cutrer,  and Korbel  Champagne,
also contributed to the underlying growth in gross profit.



Gross margin  declined  from 52.8% in fiscal 2007 to 51.6% in fiscal  2008.  The
major reason for this decline was the  full-year  effect of the addition of Casa
Herradura  results.  The gross  margins for Herradura and el Jimador on sales in
the U.S. are above our overall  average margin;  however,  gross margins on both
these brands and on New Mix (a tequila-based  ready-to-drink product) and agency
brands  acquired  as part of this  acquisition  are all  considerably  lower  in
Mexico. Gross margins for the year were also suppressed by high raw material and
fuel costs, which were nearly offset by price increases on several of our brands
in selected  markets.  Over the long term,  as the mix of our  tequila  business
shifts  toward more U.S.  revenue,  we expect gross  margins to improve,  though
rising raw  material  and fuel costs will likely put  pressure on margins in the
short term.

Advertising expenses were up $54 million, or 15%, as we continued our long track
record of  investing  to build  our  brands.  Spending  behind  acquired  brands
(Chambord and the Casa Herradura brands) and the weaker U.S. dollar  contributed
to the  increase in spending  for the year.  On a  constant exchange  basis, and
excluding  the  effect  of  acquisitions  on  a  comparable  basis,  advertising
investments were up 6%,  reflecting  incremental  spending behind Jack Daniel's,
Southern  Comfort,  Finlandia,  and other brands,  including  Woodford  Reserve,
Bonterra, and Sonoma-Cutrer.

                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2007
Acquisitions                                    5%
Foreign exchange                                4%
Underlying advertising growth                   6%
                                              -----
Reported advertising growth                    15%
                                              =====

Selling,  general,  and administrative  expenses increased $57 million,  or 10%,
influenced by these factors:
                                              Growth
                                             vs. 2007
Acquisitions                                     6%
Foreign exchange                                 1%
Underlying SG&A growth                           3%
                                               -----
Reported SG&A growth                            10%
                                               =====

Inflation of salary and related  expenses was a primary factor  contributing  to
the underlying increase in selling,  general, and administrative  expenses. This
underlying  increase  in  selling,   general,  and  administrative  expenses  is
significantly lower than recent years, as we leveraged the past several years of
incremental  investments  in this area to  support  our  global  route-to-market
efforts.  The graph on this page reflects our consistently strong investments in
our overall operating expenses over several long-term  periods.  These increases
in advertising and selling,  general,  and administrative  expenses  essentially
mirrored growth in gross profit over the same periods.

                  Long-term Operating Expense Investment Trends
                      (CAGR: Compound Annual Growth Rate)

                                   Advertising          SG&A
35-year CAGR since 1973                 9%                9%
25-year CAGR since 1983                 7%                7%
15-year CAGR since 1993                 8%                8%
10-year CAGR since 1998                 9%                9%
 5-year CAGR since 2003                13%               12%
 3-year CAGR since 2005                12%               12%


Amortization  expense  increased $3 million in fiscal  2008.  Before we acquired
Casa Herradura in January 2007, the U.S.  distribution  rights for the Herradura
brand had been  granted  to another  party  through  December  31,  2011.  After
purchasing Casa Herradura, we acquired those distribution rights from that party
for $25  million,  which we are  amortizing  on a  straight-line  basis  through
December 31,  2011.  The  increase in the  amortization  expense for fiscal 2008
reflects  the 12 full  months of  amortization  of the cost of  acquiring  those
distribution rights compared to the last three months of fiscal 2007.

Other income  decreased $17 million in fiscal 2008, due primarily to the absence
of an $11  million  gain we had  recognized  in  fiscal  2007 on the  sale of an
Italian winery used in producing Bolla wines to Gruppo Italiano Vini (GIV).  The
Bolla brand remains a part of our portfolio,  though we moved the responsibility
for  producing  these Italian  wines to GIV, an Italian  company,  during fiscal
2007.

Operating income for fiscal 2008 improved 14%, or $83 million.  Positive factors
driving  operating  income growth were higher  consumer demand for Jack Daniel's
Tennessee Whiskey, Jack Daniel's & Cola, and Finlandia, particularly outside the
U.S., and excellent growth in the U.S. for Gentleman Jack.  Improved volumes and
profits  from  several  other  brands,  largely  focused in the U.S.,  including
Bonterra,  Jack  Daniel's  Single  Barrel,  Woodford  Reserve,  and Tuaca,  also
contributed to income growth.  Additionally,  benefits from a weaker U.S. dollar
and the incremental profits from the Casa Herradura and Chambord acquisitions in
fiscal 2007 boosted year-over-year growth in operating income. Margin expansion,
driven by price  increases,  offset the rising costs of raw  materials and fuel.
Comparisons  to the prior  year were also  affected  by the  absence  of the $11
million  gain  recognized  in  fiscal  2007 on the sale of  winery  assets.  The
following chart summarizes the major factors driving our 14% growth in operating
income and identifies our underlying  operating income growth for fiscal 2008 of
8%, which while lower than our growth rate in recent years,  is consistent  with
our long-term, 15-year growth rate in operating income.



                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2007
Foreign exchange                                5%
Acquisitions                                    3%
Absence of prior year net gain
 on sale of winery property                    (2%)
Underlying operating income growth              8%
                                              -----
Reported operating income growth               14%
                                              =====


Interest expense (net) increased $25 million compared to fiscal 2007,  primarily
reflecting the financing of the Casa Herrudura acquisition.

Effective  tax rate  reported  in fiscal 2008 was 31.7%,  unchanged  from fiscal
2007.  During fiscal 2008,  our effective tax rate was favorably  affected by an
increase in the net reversal of previously  recorded  income tax  provisions for
items  effectively  settled,  compared to last year.  This  positive  factor was
offset  primarily  by  additional  taxes  related  to a tax law change in Mexico
(effective  January 1, 2008) and the absence of benefits received in fiscal 2007
from investments in tax-exempt securities.

Diluted  earnings  per share  reached a record  $3.55,  up 10% over fiscal 2007.
Performance  for the year  benefited  from solid  growth for Jack  Daniel's  and
Finlandia  and improved  volume and profits from Jack  Daniel's & Cola ready-to-
drink  product,  sold  primarily in  Australia,  and  Gentleman  Jack.  Reported
earnings  were also  helped by a weaker  U.S.  dollar,  and the benefit of share
repurchases.  Partially offsetting these gains were the expected dilutive effect
of the Casa Herradura transition and the absence of a gain on the sale of winery
property.

BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE. In Note 15 to our  consolidated  financial
statements,  we describe  our 2004  Omnibus  Compensation  Plan and how we issue
stock-based  awards  under it. In Note 1, under  "Stock-Based  Compensation"  we
describe how the plan is designed to avoid diluting earnings per share.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006

Net sales increased 16%, or $394 million, fueled by (then) record sales for Jack
Daniel's, Southern Comfort, and Finlandia,  reflecting higher volumes and margin
expansion related to price increases in various markets. The benefit of a weaker
U.S.  dollar and our  acquisitions of Chambord and Casa Herradura in fiscal 2007
also contributed to the increase in net sales.  Jack Daniel's  registered growth
for the 15th consecutive year, as demand expanded more than 6% globally,  adding
525,000  nine-liter  cases, for a total of over 9 million  nine-liter cases. For
the second consecutive year, worldwide depletions for Finlandia grew 15%, fueled
by  volume  growth in Poland  (the  brand's  largest  market)  and  double-digit
increases in numerous  other markets,  including  Israel,  Russia,  and the U.K.
Southern Comfort worldwide  depletions grew 3%, with  mid-single-digit  gains in
the U.S. and South  Africa.  Several  other brands  experienced  growth in sales
during  fiscal 2007,  including  Jack  Daniel's & Cola  ready-to-drink  product,
Gentleman Jack, Jack Daniel's Single Barrel, Bonterra,  Sonoma-Cutrer,  Woodford
Reserve, Fetzer Valley Oaks, and Korbel.

Gross  profit grew 13%, or $173  million.  This  growth  resulted  from the same
factors that  generated  revenue  growth.  Gross margin  declined  from 54.2% in
fiscal 2006 to 52.8% in fiscal 2007.  The major  factor  driving this decline in
margin was the  full-year  effect of  recording  excise taxes for our German and
Australian  businesses,  which  lowered gross margin by 1.5%.  The  distribution
structures  changed  in  these  markets  in  October  2005  and  February  2006,
respectively,  causing us to be responsible for collecting and remitting  excise
taxes in these markets.

Advertising  expenses  increased  12%,  or  $38  million,  as  we  expanded  our
brand-building  activities behind Jack Daniel's,  Southern  Comfort,  Finlandia,
Gentleman Jack,  Bonterra,  Tuaca, and  Sonoma-Cutrer.  Spending behind acquired
brands (Chambord and the Casa Herradura brands) coupled with the negative impact
of a weaker U.S. dollar contributed to the increase in spending for the year.

Selling,  general,  and  administrative  expenses increased 14%, or $66 million,
driven by  higher  compensation  and  postretirement  costs  and route-to-market
changes  made during  fiscal 2006 that  resulted in  incremental  infrastructure
costs in fiscal 2007 from our businesses in Germany and Australia.  In addition,
our   acquisitions   of  Chambord  and  Casa   Herradura   contributed   to  the
year-over-year increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses.

Other income  decreased $28 million in fiscal 2007, due primarily to the absence
of the following items:

 - $14 million in consideration received from LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
   for the early termination of our distribution and marketing rights to the
   Glenmorangie family of brands;

 - a $25 million gain related to a contractual fee paid to us by Pernod Ricard
   following their decision to exit a joint venture arrangement with us in
   Australia (we now own 100% of this distribution arrangement in this country);
   and

 - a $5 million gain on the sale of winery assets in Monterey, California.

Partially offsetting the absence of these items that occurred in fiscal 2006 was
an $11  million  gain we  recognized  on the sale of an Italian  winery  used in
producing  Bolla wines to Gruppo Italiano Vini (GIV).  GIV, an Italian  company,
produces  these  Italian  wines for us while the Bolla brand name remains in our
portfolio.

Operating  income  reached a (then) record $602 million in fiscal 2007,  growing
$39 million,  or 7%,  reflecting solid underlying  performances from our premium
global  brands,  a weaker  U.S.  dollar,  and a net  gain on the sale of  winery
property in Italy.  These positive  factors were partially offset by the absence
of several items that occurred in fiscal 2006, including a cash payment received
for  the  early  termination  of  marketing  and  distribution  rights  for  the
Glenmorangie  family of brands,  a net gain related to the  restructuring of the
ownership  of our  Australian  distributor,  and a gain on the  sale  of  winery
property in California.

Interest expense (net) increased $12 million compared to fiscal 2006, reflecting
the financing of the Casa Herrudura acquisition.

Effective  tax rate in fiscal  2007 was 31.7%,  compared  to 29.3%  reported  in
fiscal 2006.  The increase was  primarily  attributable  to the absence of a tax
benefit achieved in fiscal 2006 by offsetting  various capital gains items (from
the early  termination of Glenmorangie  marketing and distribution  rights,  the
sale  of  winery  property,   and  consideration   received  in  our  Australian
distribution  operation)  against the capital  loss  resulting  from the sale of
Lenox,  Inc. The effective  tax rate also  increased due to the phase-out of the
extraterritorial income exclusion, as provided by The American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004.



Diluted  earnings per share  increased  1% to $3.22 in fiscal 2007.  This growth
resulted from the same factors that generated operating income growth, though it
was tempered by higher  interest  expense  related to the  financing of the Casa
Herradura acquisition and a higher effective tax rate in fiscal 2007.

OTHER KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Our  primary  goal is to  increase  the  value of our  shareholders'  investment
consistently  and  sustainably  over the long term.  We believe  that  long-term
growth in the market value of our stock is a good  indication  of our success in
delivering attractive returns to shareholders.

TOTAL SHAREHOLDER  RETURN. An investment made in Brown-Forman Class B stock over
terms of one, three,  five, and 10 years would have  outperformed the returns of
the total S&P 500 over the same periods.  Specifically, a $100 investment in our
Class B stock on April 30,  1998,  would have grown to nearly $300 by the end of
fiscal 2008, assuming  reinvestment of all dividends and ignoring personal taxes
and transaction  costs.  This represents an annualized return of nearly 12% over
the 10-year period, compared to a 4% annualized increase for the S&P 500. A more
recent investment in Brown-Forman  outstripped the market even further, with our
Class B stock  yielding a return of 8% over the one-year  period ended April 30,
2008, compared to a 5% decline for the S&P 500.

               Compound Annual Growth in Total Shareholder Return
          (as of April 30, 2008, and including dividend reinvestment)

                               1 Year       3 Years       5 Years      10 Years

Brown-Forman Class B shares       8%          10%           15%           12%
S&P 500 index                    (5%)          8%           11%            4%


RETURN ON AVERAGE  INVESTED  CAPITAL.  Our return on  average  invested  capital
remains very healthy,  particularly considering current market conditions. While
our returns have recently trended lower, with a slight decline in fiscal 2008 to
17.2%,  our returns  continue to outpace those of nearly all of our competitors.
While we have registered  record earnings over the past three years,  our recent
returns have been diluted by the investments  made to acquire  Chambord  liqueur
and Casa Herradura.  We believe that our return on average invested capital will
increase next fiscal year and continue to improve over the long term,  given our
positive  outlook for earnings  growth and careful  management of our investment
base.  Further,  we expect our most recent acquisitions to build and enhance our
returns, as the new brands have considerable growth potential.

Return on Average Invested Capital:

   Fiscal 2006     21.9%
   Fiscal 2007     17.4%
   Fiscal 2008     17.2%


BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FOR WINE AND SPIRITS

GENERALLY.  Generally.  We expect the business climate for distilled  spirits to
remain solid in the U.S. and our major  markets  outside the U.S.  over the next
several years. We are encouraged by the favorable demographic trends in the U.S.
Wine and spirits  combined have taken market share in beverage alcohol from beer
in the U.S.  over the last  decade.  The  trend  toward  premium  products  also
continues, which helps many of our brands.

We see enormous  potential for continued growth in the global  marketplace.  The
demographics are strongly in our favor. We have experienced  tremendous  success
in our global  expansion  since we began the effort  almost 15 years ago.  While
markets outside the U.S.  accounted for less than 20% of our net sales in fiscal
1994,  in fiscal 2008,  for the first time in our company's  history,  net sales
outside the U.S. constituted  over 50% of our total net sales.  Yet our business
today accounts for less than 1% of the global beverage alcohol market. We expect
our growth in markets  outside the U.S. to surpass our growth in the U.S. We see
great  opportunity  in emerging  markets  such as Central  and  Eastern  Europe,
Russia, and China, as well as countries that some might consider to be developed
markets.

We believe our business will benefit from the  contributions  of  Herradura,  el
Jimador,  and other tequila brands we acquired in fiscal 2007, first in the U.S.
and Mexico,  and then in markets in other parts of the world.  We believe  these
brands  have the  potential  to become  significant  engines  of growth  for our
business over the next decade and beyond.  We expect their  consumer  appeal and
authenticity will enable us to build on our brand-building strengths.

Nevertheless, a slowing economy and less disposable income in the U.S. and other
key markets linked to the U.S.,  such as Western  Europe and Mexico,  and higher
costs for energy and raw  materials,  temper  somewhat our view of the near-term
business environment in these markets.

As with spirits, favorable demographic trends should help the top-line growth of
our wine brands. However,  acceptable  profitability remains a challenge for our
wine  products,  due to margin  pressure  and high fixed  costs.  We continue to
pursue  opportunities  to  improve  our  overall  wine  cost  structure  and the
performance of our brands.

PUBLIC  ATTITUDES,  GOVERNMENT  POLICIES.  Our  ability  to market  and sell our
beverage alcohol products depends heavily on society's attitudes toward drinking
and government policies that flow from those attitudes.  This is not just a U.S.
issue,  but one we see  increasingly in Europe and around the world. A number of
organizations  criticize  abusive drinking and blame alcohol  manufacturers  for
problems  associated  with  alcohol  misuse.  Specifically,  critics say alcohol
companies market their products to encourage underage drinking.



We are extremely careful to market our beverage products only to adults. We were
one of the first companies to adopt a comprehensive marketing code governing the
sale  of our  spirits  and  wine  brands.  Our  marketing  code  emphasizes  the
importance of content and placement to minimize  exposure to the  underaged.  We
adhere to marketing codes of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States,
the Wine  Institute,  and the European  Forum for  Responsible  Drinking,  among
others.  We  contribute   significant  resources  to  The  Century  Council,  an
organization that we and other spirits producers created to combat drunk driving
and  underage  drinking.   In  Europe,  we  are  an  active  member  of  similar
organizations,  including  the  Portman  Group and the  Drinkaware  Trust in the
United Kingdom.

Illegal  alcohol  consumption  by underage  drinkers  and abusive  drinking by a
minority of adult  drinkers  give rise to public  issues of great  significance.
Alcohol  critics  seek  governmental  measures  to make  beverage  alcohol  more
expensive,  less  available,  and more  difficult to advertise  and promote.  We
disagree that this is a good  strategy to deal with the minority of  individuals
who abuse alcohol.  In our view, society is more likely to curb alcohol abuse by
better educating  consumers about beverage alcohol and by setting a good example
through moderate drinking than by restricting  alcohol  advertising and sales or
by imposing punitive taxes.

Legal or regulatory measures against beverage alcohol (including its advertising
and  promotion)  could  hurt our sales.  Regulatory  measures  are a  particular
concern  currently in Europe,  where the  European  Union and many of its member
countries are devoting increased attention to more restrictive alcohol policies.
In the U.S.,  distilled spirits are at a marked disadvantage to beer and wine in
taxation,  access to network television advertising,  and in the number and type
of sales  outlets.  Achieving  greater  cultural  acceptance of our products and
parity with beer and wine in taxation  and access to  consumers  are major goals
that we share with other distillers.

Notably,  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  has  begun  a  major  alcohol
policy-making process intended to produce a global strategy to combat the misuse
of alcohol. While the WHO's global strategy will not carry the force of law, the
organization is highly  influential,  particularly  in the developing  world. We
believe its alcohol policy  recommendations will be taken seriously and probably
adopted into law in many WHO member states. We are committed to working with the
WHO during  this  policy-making  process to ensure  that its global  strategy is
based on sound science and recognizes the critical  distinction  between the use
and abuse of beverage alcohol.

POLICY  OBJECTIVES.  We believe that  beverage  alcohol  should be regarded like
other beneficial products, such as food, pharmaceuticals,  and automobiles - all
of which can be hazardous if misused by the  consumer.  Therefore,  we encourage
the proper use of our products and  discourage  misuse of alcohol,  particularly
drinking by those under the legal drinking age. We believe the most powerful way
to encourage proper drinking and discourage alcohol abuse is through partnership
with parents, schools, law enforcement, and other concerned stakeholders.

We also seek recognition that distilled spirits, wine, and beer are all forms of
beverage  alcohol,  and  should  be  treated  on an equal  basis by  government.
Generally speaking,  however,  and especially in the U.S., distilled spirits are
subject to higher  taxes per ounce of pure  alcohol,  are subject to more severe
restrictions  on the  places  and  hours of sale,  and in some  venues  (such as
network  TV) are denied the right to  advertise.  We seek to "level the  playing
field" for beverage alcohol.

We also seek, for the  convenience of our customers,  Sunday sales in those U.S.
states that still ban them.  We encourage  rules that  liberalize  international
trade, so that we can expand our international business. We oppose tax increases
which make our products more expensive for our  consumers,  and seek to diminish
the tax advantage enjoyed by beer.

TAXES. Like all goods,  beverage alcohol sales are sensitive to higher tax rates
and tax  reforms.  No  legislation  to increase  U.S.  federal  excise  taxes on
distilled  spirits is currently  pending,  but future  excise tax  increases are
always possible,  as are tax increases or changes levied on the broader business
community. From time to time, some city and state legislatures increase beverage
alcohol taxes. The cumulative  effect of such tax changes over time likely would
hurt sales.  Changes to the U.S. presidency and Congress may lead to significant
increases in taxes paid by beverage alcohol  producers,  as well as the business
community at large.

Increased tax rates, advertising restrictions, burdensome labeling requirements,
and  outmoded  product   standards  affect  beverage  alcohol  in  many  of  our
international  markets  as  well.  In the  past,  those  changes  have  not been
significant to our overall business,  but as our sales outside the U.S. continue
to grow and tax regimes in international markets become increasingly onerous for
our products,  this risk becomes more pronounced.  For instance,  the Australian
government  recently and unexpectedly  imposed a significant excise tax increase
on  spirits-based  ready-to-drink  products,  which could  impede  sales of Jack
Daniel's & Cola in that brand's largest market.

THE LITIGATION CLIMATE.  Courts have dismissed most of the recent putative class
action  lawsuits  against  spirits,  beer,  and  wine  manufacturers,  including
Brown-Forman,   which  alleged  that  our  marketing   causes  illegal   alcohol
consumption  by persons  under the legal  drinking  age. The cases not dismissed
have been  withdrawn  voluntarily,  and that series of  litigation is concluded.
However,  the  attorneys  general  in  a  number  of  U.S.  states  continue  to
investigate  the trade  marketing  practices of beverage  alcohol  producers and
wholesalers. Lawsuits or governmental investigations similar to these could hurt
our business and the overall industry.

DISTRIBUTION  STRATEGY.  We use a variety  of  business  models  to  market  and
distribute  our  products.  In the U.S.,  we sell our  products  to  wholesalers
through the mandatory three-tier system. In a number of other countries, we rely
on other spirits  producers to  distribute  our  products.  Consolidation  among
spirits  producers  overseas  or  wholesalers  in  the  U.S.  could  hinder  the
distribution  of our wine and spirits  products in the future,  but to date this
has rarely happened.  Wholesalers and distributors  typically seek to distribute
our premium spirits and wine brands, and we expect that demand to continue.

EXCHANGE RATES. The strength of foreign  currencies  relative to the U.S. dollar
affects  sales  and the cost of  purchasing  goods  and  services  in our  other
markets.  This year, a weaker U.S.  dollar helped our earnings,  particularly in
the U.K., Continental Europe, and Australia.  We have hedged the majority of our
exposure  to foreign  exchange  fluctuation  in 2009 by  entering  into  foreign
currency forwards and option contracts.  However, if the U.S. dollar appreciates
significantly, any portion not hedged would affect our business negatively.



DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

                        Summary of Operating Performance
                (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

                                                 2006        2007         2008
                                                 ----        ----         ----

Net sales                                        $166        $ 50         $ --
Operating expenses                               (178)        (53)          --
Impairment charge                                 (60)         (9)          --
Transaction costs                                 (10)         (1)          --
                                                 ----        ----         ----
   Loss before income taxes                       (82)        (13)          --
Income tax benefit                                  7           2           --
                                                 ----        ----         ----
   Net loss from discontinued operations         $(75)       $(11)        $ --
                                                 ====        ====         ====
Loss per share:
   Basic                                        (0.62)      (0.09)          --
   Diluted                                      (0.61)      (0.09)          --


As discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying financial statements,  we sold Lenox,
Inc.  during fiscal 2006, and sold Brooks & Bentley and Hartmann in fiscal 2007.
As  a  result,  we  have  reported  them  as  discontinued   operations  in  the
accompanying financial statements.

The net loss  from  discontinued  operations  in  fiscal  2007  was $11  million
compared to a net loss of $75  million in fiscal  2006.  Fiscal 2006  included a
pre-tax impairment charge and transaction costs totaling $70 million in addition
to a loss from the  operations of Lenox Inc.  incurred  during the period before
the sale.  The  fiscal  2007 loss  included  a pre-tax  impairment  charge of $9
million.  The  majority  of this  impairment  related  to our  decision  to sell
Hartmann  and to focus our efforts  entirely on our  beverage  business.  The $7
million  pre-tax  impairment  charge  associated  with  Hartmann  consisted of a
goodwill  impairment of $4 million and an  impairment  charge of $3 million that
represented  the excess of the carrying  value of the net assets to be sold over
the expected sales proceeds, net of estimated selling costs.

Before we decided to sell Hartmann, no impairment charge was recorded because we
believed its operations would generate sufficient future cash flows to enable us
to fully recover its carrying  amount.  The decision to sell Hartmann  reflected
the Board's  opinion that the sum of the price to be obtained  from the sale and
the  strategic  value of focusing  entirely on our  beverage  business  would be
greater than the value of continuing to operate Hartmann.

There was also a $2 million  pre-tax  impairment  charge  recorded  for Brooks &
Bentley in fiscal  2007.  This  impairment  charge  reflected  a revision to its
estimated fair value and costs to sell, based on the negotiations  that resulted
in its ultimate sale.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our ability to generate  cash from  operations  consistently  is one of our most
significant  financial  strengths.  Our  strong  cash  flows  enable  us to  pay
dividends,  pursue brand-building programs, and make strategic acquisitions that
we believe will enhance  shareholder value.  Investment grade ratings of A2 from
Moody's and A from Standard & Poor's provide us with financial  flexibility when
accessing global credit markets.  We believe cash flows from operations are more
than adequate to meet our expected operating and capital requirements. In fiscal
2008, our cash flow from  operations and cash on hand enabled us to fund capital
expenditures  of $53 million  (including  property,  plant,  and  equipment  and
technology software investments), to distribute $362 million to our shareholders
(including  dividends  and  the  special  distribution  in  May  2007),  and  to
repurchase $223 million of our stock.


Cash Flow Summary
(Dollars in millions)                      2006        2007        2008
                                          ------      ------      ------
Operating activities                      $ 343       $ 355       $ 534

Investing activities:
   Acquisitions                              --      (1,045)          2
   Sale of discontinued operations          205          12          --
   Net (purchase) sale of short-term
    securities                             (160)         74          86
   Additions to property, plant,
    and equipment                           (51)        (58)        (41)
   Other                                      3         (21)        (19)
                                          ------      ------      ------
                                             (3)     (1,038)         28
Financing activities:
   Net (repayment) issuance of debt         (55)        597        (172)
   Acquisition of treasury stock             (3)         --        (223)
   Special distribution to stockholders      --          --        (204)
   Dividends paid                          (128)       (143)       (158)
   Other                                     26          33          21
                                          ------      ------      ------
                                           (160)        487        (736)
                                          ------      ------      ------
Foreign exchange effect                      --           4          10
                                          ------      ------      ------
Change in cash and cash equivalents       $ 180       $(192)      $(164)
                                          ======      ======      ======

Cash  provided by  operations  was $534 million in fiscal 2008  compared to $355
million  in fiscal  2007.  This  increase  was driven by higher  earnings  and a
reduction in working capital  requirements  compared to fiscal 2007, including a
refund of taxes  received  in fiscal  2008  related to the  acquisition  of Casa
Herradura.

Cash provided by investing  activities in fiscal 2008  increased  $1,066 million
compared  to  fiscal  2007,  reflecting  the $794  million  acquisition  of Casa
Herradura  (including fees) in January 2007 and the $251 million  acquisition of
Chambord in May 2006.

Cash  used for  financing  activities  increased  by $1,223  million,  primarily
reflecting a $769 million  change in net debt compared to fiscal 2007 and a $204
million  special  distribution to shareholders in May 2007. The increase in cash
used for financing  activities  also reflects the  repurchase of $223 million of
our common stock during fiscal 2008.

In comparing fiscal 2007 with fiscal 2006, cash provided by operations increased
$12 million, as a reduction in cash used for discontinued  operations  following
the sale of Lenox, Inc. in fiscal 2006 and higher earnings were partially offset
by an  increase  in  working  capital  requirements.  Cash  used  for  investing
activities   increased  by  $1,035  million  in  fiscal  2007,   reflecting  the
acquisitions of Chambord and Casa Herradura for a total of $1,045 million.  Cash
provided by financing  activities  increased  by $647  million,  reflecting  the
issuance of both commercial  paper and long-term debt to finance the acquisition
of Casa Herradura.



                          Fiscal 2008 Cash Utilization

Sources of Cash:
   Operating activities                      65%
   Short-term borrowings                     22%
   Short-term investments                    10%
   Stock option exercises                     3%

Uses of Cash:
   Distributions to shareholders             36%
   Long-term debt                            36%
   Share repurchases                         22%
   Capital spending                           5%
   Acquisitions                               1%


CAPITAL  EXPENDITURES.  Investments in property,  plant,  and equipment were $51
million in fiscal 2006,  $58 million in fiscal  2007,  and $41 million in fiscal
2008.  Expenditures over the three-year period included investments to maintain,
expand,  and improve  efficiencies  of our production  operations and to provide
capital resources to build our brands.

We expect  capital  expenditures  for fiscal  2009 to be $65 to $75  million,  a
significant  increase compared to our spending over the past three fiscal years.
This increase reflects  investments to further expand capacity of our production
and  distribution  facilities  to meet the  continued  growing  demand  for Jack
Daniel's  and  investments  behind Casa  Herradura.  We also plan to continue to
invest in technology to understand our consumers better and to sharpen our focus
on  cost-cutting  initiatives  to combat rising raw material and fuel costs.  We
expect  to  fund  fiscal  2009  capital   expenditures  with  cash  provided  by
operations.

SHARE  REPURCHASES.  In March 2003,  we  repurchased  7.9 million  shares of our
common stock for $561 million,  including  transaction  costs,  through a "Dutch
auction"  tender  offer.  We financed the  repurchase by issuing $600 million in
debt; of this amount,  $250 million was repaid in March 2006,  and the remaining
$350 million was repaid in March 2008 with existing commercial paper capacity.

In November 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $200
million of  outstanding  Class A and Class B common stock  subject to market and
Securities  and Exchange  Committee  rules,  and certain  other  conditions.  We
completed the $200 million repurchase plan in March 2008.

Under the plan, we  repurchased a total of 2,977,250  shares  (42,600 of Class A
and 2,934,650 of Class B) for $200  million.  The average  repurchase  price per
share, including commissions, was $68.76 for Class A and $67.17 for Class B.

Separately,  under an agreement approved in May 2007 by a committee of our Board
of Directors  composed  exclusively of non-family  directors,  approximately $22
million in share repurchases was purchased from one or more trusts  beneficially
owned by a Brown family member. Additionally,  approximately $1 million was paid
in  exchange  for shares  surrendered  by two  employees  to satisfy  income tax
withholding obligations, in accordance with our policy.

LIQUIDITY.  We access  short-term  capital markets by issuing  commercial paper,
backed by a bank credit  agreement for $800 million that expires in fiscal 2012.
This  credit  agreement  provides  us with an  immediate,  continuing  liquidity
source. At April 30, 2008, we had no outstanding borrowings under it.

In January 2007, we filed a shelf  registration with the SEC for an undetermined
amount of securities that gives us prompt access to longer term financing.

ACQUISITIONS.  Effective May 31, 2006, we completed the  acquisition of Chambord
liqueur and all related assets from Chatam  International  Incorporated  and its
operating subsidiary,  Charles Jacquin et Cie Inc., for $251 million,  including
transaction  costs.  The acquisition  consisted  primarily of the Chambord brand
name and  goodwill,  to which we allocated  $116 million and $127 million of the
purchase price, respectively.

On January 18, 2007, we completed the  acquisition of  substantially  all of the
assets of Casa  Herradura and its affiliates  relating to its tequila  business,
including  the  Herradura  and el Jimador  tequilas,  the New Mix  tequila-based
ready-to-drink  brand,  the trade  names and  trademarks  associated  with those
brands and other acquired brands, as well as related  production  facilities and
the sales, marketing,  and distribution  organization in Mexico. The cost of the
acquisition,  including  transaction costs and fees, was $794 million,  which we
allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities (see Note 3 to the accompanying
consolidated   financial   statements).   We  financed  the   acquisition   with
approximately  $114 million of cash and approximately $680 million of commercial
paper, $400 million of which was subsequently replaced with long-term debt.

In May 2007,  we ended our  joint  ventures  in the  tequila  business  with the
Orendain  family of Mexico.  We had shared  ownership  of the "Don  Eduardo" and
other Orendain  trademarks and related  intellectual  property with the Orendain
family  since 1999  through two joint  venture  companies:  Tequila  Orendain de
Jalisco (TOJ) and BFC Tequila Limited (BFCTL). TOJ produced the tequila and held
the trademarks in Mexico.  BFCTL owned the trademarks for all markets  excluding
Mexico. Upon ending the joint ventures, we acquired the remaining portion of the
global trademark for the Don Eduardo super-premium tequila brand that we did not
already own. In exchange,  we paid $12 million to the other  shareholders of TOJ
and BFCTL and surrendered to them our interest in all other Orendain  trademarks
previously owned by these two companies.  Although we expect to continue to grow
the Don Eduardo brand,  these two former joint ventures were not material to our
consolidated results of operations or financial position.

SPECIAL  DISTRIBUTION.  On March 22, 2007,  our Board of Directors  approved the
distribution  to  shareholders  of the $204  million  in cash  received  (net of
transaction  fees)  from the sale of  Lenox,  Inc.  and  Brooks &  Bentley.  The
distribution  of $1.653 per share was made on May 10, 2007, to  shareholders  of
record on April 5, 2007. The Internal Revenue Service has issued to us a private
letter  ruling  stating  that the  special  distribution  will be  treated  as a
distribution in partial liquidation pursuant to Sections 302(b)(4) and 302(e)(1)
of the Internal Revenue Code.



LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

We have long-term  obligations  related to contracts,  leases,  employee benefit
plans,  and  borrowing  arrangements  that we enter into in the normal course of
business  (see  Notes  5, 7 and 12 to the  accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements).  The following table summarizes the amounts of those obligations as
of April 30, 2008, and the years when those obligations must be paid:

Long-Term Obligations(1)                                   2010-     After
(Dollars in millions)                    Total     2009     2013      2013
                                         -----     ----     ----      ----
Long-term debt                           $ 421     $  4      $414     $  3
Interest on long-term debt                  68       21        47       --
Grape purchase obligations                 107       29        57       21
Operating leases                            56       17        35        4
Postretirement benefit obligations(2)        7        7       n/a      n/a
Agave purchase obligations(3)              n/a      n/a       n/a      n/a
                                         -----     ----      ----     ----
Total                                    $ 659     $ 78      $553     $ 28
                                         =====     ====      ====     ====

 (1) Excludes reserves for tax uncertainties as we are unable to reasonably
     predict the ultimate amount or timing of settlement.
 (2) As of April 30, 2008, we have unfunded pension and other postretirement
     benefit obligations of $105 million. Because the specific periods in which
     those obligations will be funded are not determinable, no amounts related
     to those obligations are reflected in the above table other than the
     $7 million of expected contribution in fiscal 2009. Historically, we have
     generally funded these obligations with the minimum annual contribution
     required by ERISA, but we may elect to contribute more than the minimum
     amount in future years.
 (3) As discussed in Note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial
     statements, we have obligations to purchase agave, a plant whose sap forms
     the raw material for tequila. Because the specific periods in which those
     obligations will be paid are not determinable, no amounts related to those
     obligations are reflected in the table above. However, as of April 30,
     2008, based on current market prices, obligations under these contracts
     totaled $22 million.

We expect to meet these obligations with internally generated funds.


MARKET RISKS

We are exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity  prices
affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy,  foreign exchange rates, and
interest  rates.  We try  to  manage  risk  responsibly  through  a  variety  of
strategies, including production initiatives and hedging strategies. Our foreign
currency  hedging  contracts  are  subject  to changes in  exchange  rates,  our
commodity  futures  and option  contracts  are  subject to changes in  commodity
prices,  and some of our debt  obligations  are  subject to changes in  interest
rates. We discuss these contracts below and also provide a sensitivity analysis.

See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for details on our grape and
agave purchase obligations,  which are also exposed to commodity price risk, and
"Critical  Accounting  Estimates"  for a  discussion  of our  pension  and other
postretirement plans' exposure to interest rate risks.

See "Important Information Regarding  Forward-Looking  Statements" (page 51) for
details on how economic conditions affecting market risks also affect the demand
for and pricing of our products.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE. We estimate that our foreign currency revenues will exceed our
foreign  currency  expenses by $470 million in fiscal  2009.  To the extent that
this foreign  currency  exposure is not hedged,  our results of  operations  and
financial  position  improve  when  the  U.S.  dollar  weakens  against  foreign
currencies and decline when the dollar  strengthens  against them.  However,  we
routinely use foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign
exchange risk. If these  contracts  work as intended,  we will not recognize any
unrealized  gains or losses on them until we  recognize  the  underlying  hedged
transactions in earnings.  At April 30, 2008, our foreign  currency hedges had a
notional value of $342 million and a net unrealized loss of $9 million.

With our hedging  program,  we estimate  that, for the currencies in which we do
business,  if the value of the U.S.  dollar were to average 10% higher in fiscal
2009 than in fiscal 2008, our fiscal 2009 operating income would decrease by $19
million.  Conversely,  a 10%  average  decline in the value of the dollar  would
increase operating income by $31 million.

COMMODITY  PRICES.  Commodity prices are affected by weather,  supply and demand
conditions,  and other  geopolitical  and  economic  variables.  We use  futures
contracts  and  options  to reduce  the price  volatility  of some  commodities,
primarily  corn.  At April 30,  2008,  we had  outstanding  hedge  positions  on
approximately 3 million bushels of corn with unrealized gains of $4 million.  We
estimate that a 10% decrease in corn prices would reduce the unrealized  gain at
April 30, 2008, by $2 million.  We expect to mitigate the effect of increases in
our raw  material  and energy  costs  through  our hedging  strategies,  ongoing
production initiatives, and select increases in prices for our brands.

INTEREST  RATES.  Our  short-term  investments  and our  variable-rate  debt are
exposed to the risk of changes in  interest  rates.  We offset a portion of this
risk by entering  into an interest rate swap which fixed the rate on $75 million
of our variable-rate  notes for the nine-month period ending July 1, 2008. Based
on the April 30, 2008 balances of variable-rate debt and investments, a 1% point
increase in interest  rates would increase our annual  interest  expense (net of
interest income on cash and short-term investments) by $6 million.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Our financial  statements  reflect  certain  estimates  involved in applying the
following   critical   accounting   policies  that  entail   uncertainties   and
subjectivity.  Using  different  estimates  could have a material  effect on our
operating results and financial condition.

GOODWILL  AND OTHER  INTANGIBLE  ASSETS.  We have  obtained  most of our  brands
through acquisitions from other companies. Upon acquisition,  the purchase price
is first allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities, including brand names
and other intangible  assets,  based on estimated fair value, with any remaining
purchase  price  recorded  as  goodwill.  Goodwill  and  intangible  assets with
indefinite  lives are not amortized.  We consider all of our brand names to have
indefinite lives.

We assess our brand  names and  goodwill  for  impairment  at least  annually to
ensure  that  estimated  future cash flows  continue to exceed the related  book
value.  A brand name is  impaired  if its book  value  exceeds  its fair  value.
Goodwill is evaluated for  impairment  if the book value of its  reporting  unit
exceeds its  estimated  fair value.  Fair value is determined  using  discounted
estimated  future cash flows,  with  consideration  of market values for similar
assets when available.  If the fair value of an evaluated asset is less than its
book value, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value.



Considerable  management judgment is necessary to assess impairment and estimate
fair value. The assumptions used in our evaluations,  such as forecasted  growth
rates and cost of capital,  are  consistent  with our internal  projections  and
operating plans.

PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT. We depreciate our property, plant, and equipment
on a straight-line  basis using our estimates of useful life, which are 20 to 40
years for buildings and  improvements,  3 to 10 years for machinery,  equipment,
vehicles, furniture, and fixtures, and 3 to 7 years for capitalized software.

We assess our property,  plant,  and equipment and other  long-lived  assets for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying value of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Fair value is
determined using discounted  estimated future cash flows, with  consideration of
market  values  for  similar  assets  when  available.  If the fair  value of an
evaluated  asset is less than its book value,  we write it down to its estimated
fair value.

Considerable  management judgment is necessary to assess impairment and estimate
fair  value.  Assumptions  used in these  evaluations  are  consistent  with our
internal projections and operating plans.

PENSION AND OTHER  POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFITS.  We sponsor various defined benefit
pension plans as well as postretirement  plans providing retiree health care and
retiree life insurance benefits.  Benefits are based on such factors as years of
service and compensation  level during  employment.  The benefits expected to be
paid are expensed over the employees' expected service. This requires us to make
certain  assumptions to determine the net benefit expense and obligations,  such
as interest rates, return on plan assets, the rate of salary increases, expected
service, and health care cost trend rates.

The assets,  obligations,  and  assumptions  used to measure pension and retiree
medical  expenses  are  determined  as of  January  31  of  the  preceding  year
("measurement  date").  Because  obligations are measured on a discounted basis,
the discount rate is a significant assumption. It is based on interest rates for
high-quality,  long-term  corporate debt at each measurement  date. The expected
return on pension  plan  assets is based on our  historical  experience  and our
expectations for long-term rates of return.  The other  assumptions also reflect
our  historical  experience  and  management's  best judgment  regarding  future
expectations.  We review our assumptions on each annual  measurement date. As of
April 30, 2008, we have increased the discount rate for pension obligations from
6.04% to 6.64%, and for other  postretirement  benefit obligations from 5.98% to
6.45%.  Pension and postretirement  benefit expense for fiscal 2009 is estimated
to be  approximately  $20  million,  compared to $25 million for fiscal  2008. A
decrease/increase   in   the   discount   rate   of  25   basis   points   would
increase/decrease the fiscal 2009 expense by approximately $2 million.

Income  taxes.  Our  annual  effective  tax rate is based on our  income and the
statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions where we do business. In fiscal
2008, our annual income tax rate for continuing operations was 31.7%,  unchanged
from fiscal 2007.  During  fiscal 2008,  our  effective  tax rate was  favorably
affected by an  increase  in the net  reversal of  uncertain  tax  positions  in
accordance with the effective  settlement of each item. This positive factor was
offset  primarily  by  additional  taxes  related  to a tax law change in Mexico
(effective  January 1, 2008) and the absence of benefits received in fiscal 2007
from investments in tax-exempt securities.

Significant  judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions.  We establish
reserves when we believe that certain  positions are likely to be challenged and
may not  succeed,  despite  our belief that our tax return  positions  are fully
supportable.  We adjust these reserves in light of changing circumstances,  such
as the progress of a tax audit. We believe current  reserves are appropriate for
all known contingencies, but this situation could change.

Several years can elapse before we can resolve a particular  matter for which we
have established a reserve.  Although predicting the final outcome or the timing
of resolution of any particular tax matter can be difficult, we believe that our
reserves  reflect  the likely  outcome of known tax  contingencies.  Unfavorable
settlement  of any  particular  issue could  require use of our cash;  whereas a
favorable  resolution  could result in either reduced cash tax payments,  or the
reversal of previously  established  reserves or some combination of these which
could result in a reduction to our effective tax rate upon resolution.

CONTINGENCIES.  We operate in a  litigious  environment,  and we are sued in the
normal  course of  business.  Sometimes  plaintiffs  seek  substantial  damages.
Significant  judgment is required in  predicting  the outcome of these suits and
claims, many of which take years to adjudicate.  We accrue estimated costs for a
contingency when we believe that a loss is probable and we can make a reasonable
estimate of the loss, and adjust the accrual as  appropriate to reflect  changes
in facts and circumstances.

Brown-Forman Corporation and many other manufacturers of spirits, wine, and beer
were defendants in a series of nine essentially  identical putative class action
lawsuits that began in 2003 seeking  damages and  injunctive  relief for alleged
marketing of beverage alcohol to underage consumers.  As each of these cases has
been  dismissed  or  withdrawn,  the  last in  November  2007,  this  series  of
litigation is concluded.

RECENT ACCOUNTING  PRONOUNCEMENTS.  See Note 1 to the accompanying  consolidated
financial statements.



                                  Brown-Forman
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
               (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                            2006         2007         2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales                                      $2,412       $2,806       $3,282
Excise taxes                                      468          588          700
Cost of sales                                     636          737          887
                                               --------------------------------

   Gross profit                                 1,308        1,481        1,695


Advertising expenses                              323          361          415
Selling, general, and administrative expenses     469          535          592
Amortization expense                               --            2            5
Other income, net                                 (47)         (19)          (2)
                                               --------------------------------
   Operating income                               563          602          685


Interest income                                    14           18            8
Interest expense                                   18           34           49
                                               --------------------------------
   Income from continuing operations
    before income taxes                           559          586          644

Income taxes                                      164          186          204
                                               --------------------------------
   Income from continuing operations              395          400          440

Loss from discontinued operations,
 net of income taxes                              (75)         (11)          --
                                               --------------------------------
   Net income                                  $  320       $  389       $  440
                                               ================================

Basic earnings (loss) per share:
   Continuing operations                       $ 3.24       $ 3.26       $ 3.59
   Discontinued operations                      (0.62)       (0.09)          --
                                               --------------------------------
      Total                                    $ 2.62       $ 3.17       $ 3.59
                                               ================================

Diluted earnings (loss) per share:
   Continuing operations                       $ 3.20       $ 3.22       $ 3.55
   Discontinued operations                      (0.61)       (0.09)          --
                                               --------------------------------
      Total                                    $ 2.60       $ 3.14       $ 3.56
                                               ================================

Note: Earnings (loss) per share amounts for continuing operations and
      discontinued operations may not add to total amount for the company
      due to rounding.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.




                                  Brown-Forman
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
          (Expressed in millions, except share and per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                                                    2007          2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets
- ------
Cash and cash equivalents                                   $ 283         $ 119
Short-term investments                                         86            --
Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful
   accounts of $22 in 2007 and $19 in 2008                    404           453
Inventories:
   Barreled whiskey                                           303           311
   Finished goods                                             151           155
   Work in process                                            198           179
   Raw materials and supplies                                  42            40
                                                           ---------------------
      Total inventories                                       694           685
Current portion of deferred income taxes                       76           102
Other current assets                                           92            97
                                                           ---------------------
Total Current Assets                                        1,635         1,456

Property, plant, and equipment, net                           506           501
Prepaid pension cost                                           23            23
Goodwill                                                      670           688
Other intangible assets                                       684           699
Other assets                                                   33            38
                                                           ---------------------
Total Assets                                               $3,551        $3,405
                                                           =====================

Liabilities
- -----------
Accounts payable and accrued expenses                       $ 361        $  380
Accrued income taxes                                           27            15
Payable to stockholders                                       204            --
Short-term borrowings                                         401           585
Current portion of long-term debt                             354             4
                                                           ---------------------
Total Current Liabilities                                   1,347           984

Long-term debt, less unamortized
 discount of $1 in 2007 and $0 in 2008                        422           417
Deferred income taxes                                          56            89
Accrued pension and other postretirement benefits             123           121
Other liabilities                                              30            69
                                                           ---------------------
Total Liabilities                                           1,978         1,680
                                                           ---------------------
Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' Equity
- --------------------
Common Stock:
  Class A, voting, $0.15 par value
   (57,000,000 shares authorized;
    56,925,000 shares issued)                                   9             9
  Class B, nonvoting, $0.15 par value
   (100,000,000 shares authorized;
    69,188,000 shares issued)                                  10            10
Additional paid-in capital                                     64            74
Retained earnings                                           1,649         1,931
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
  Pension and other postretirement benefits adjustment        (99)          (88)
  Cumulative translation adjustment                            46            99
  Unrealized loss on cash flow hedge contracts                 (4)           (6)
Treasury stock, at cost
 (2,833,000 and 5,522,000 shares
  in 2007 and 2008, respectively)                            (102)         (304)
                                                           ---------------------
Total Stockholders' Equity                                  1,573         1,725
                                                           ---------------------
Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity                 $3,551        $3,405
                                                           =====================

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.





                                  Brown-Forman
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (Expressed in millions)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                                   2006      2007      2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net income                                         $ 320     $ 389     $ 440
   Adjustments to reconcile net income to
    net cash provided by operations:
      Net loss from discontinued operations              75        11        --
      Depreciation and amortization                      42        44        52
      Stock-based compensation expense                    9         8        10
      Deferred income taxes                             (33)       (7)        5
      Other                                              (2)      (11)       (3)
      Change in assets and liabilities, excluding
       the effects of businesses acquired or sold:
         Accounts receivable                            (21)      (47)      (43)
         Inventories                                    (37)      (41)       (3)
         Other current assets                            (7)       (9)       (4)
         Accounts payable and accrued expenses            3        14        21
         Accrued income taxes                             7       (20)      (12)
         Noncurrent assets and liabilities                5        18        71
   Net cash provided by (used for) operating
    activities of discontinued operations               (18)        6        --
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash provided by operating activities             343       355       534
                                                       -------------------------

Cash flows from investing activities:
   Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired       --    (1,045)        2
   Acquisition of distribution rights                    --       (25)       --
   Acquisition of brand names and trademarks             (1)       --       (13)
   Proceeds from sale of discontinued operations        205        12        --
   Purchase of short-term investments                  (388)     (249)       --
   Sale of short-term investments                       228       323        86
   Additions to property, plant, and equipment          (51)      (58)      (41)
   Proceeds from sale of property, plant,
    and equipment                                         7        14         6
   Computer software expenditures                        --        (9)      (12)
   Net cash used for investing activities
    of discontinued operations                           (3)       (1)       --
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash (used for) provided by
       investing activities                              (3)   (1,038)       28
                                                       -------------------------

Cash flows from financing activities:
   Net change in short-term borrowings                  225       178       184
   Proceeds from long-term debt                          --       421        --
   Repayment of long-term debt                         (280)       (2)     (356)
   Debt issuance costs                                   --        (2)       --
   Proceeds from exercise of stock options               19        27        11
   Excess tax benefits from stock options                 7         8        10
   Acquisition of treasury stock                         (3)       --      (223)
   Special distribution to stockholders                  --        --      (204)
   Dividends paid                                      (128)     (143)     (158)
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash (used for) provided by
       financing activities                            (160)      487      (736)
                                                       -------------------------
Effect of exchange rate changes
 on cash and cash equivalents                            --         4        10
                                                       -------------------------

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents    180      (192)     (164)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year            295       475       283
                                                       -------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year                 $475      $283      $119
                                                       =========================

Supplemental disclosure of cash paid for:
   Interest                                            $ 21      $ 32      $ 50
   Income taxes                                        $188      $205      $236


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.




                                  Brown-Forman
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
           (Dollars expressed in millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                                   2006      2007      2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Class A Common Stock                                    $ 9       $ 9       $ 9

Class B Common Stock                                     10        10        10

Additional Paid-in Capital:
   Balance at beginning of year                          34        47        64
   Stock issued under compensation plans                 --         2         3
   Stock-based compensation expense                       8         6         6
   Adjustment for stock option exercises                 (3)        1        (9)
   Excess tax benefits from stock options                 8         8        10
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                                47        64        74
                                                    ----------------------------
Retained Earnings:
   Balance at beginning of year                       1,415     1,607     1,649
   Net income                                           320       389       440
   Cash dividends ($1.05, $1.165, and $1.285 per
    share in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively)       (128)     (143)     (158)
   Special cash distribution to
    stockholders ($1.6533 per share in 2007)             --      (204)       --
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                             1,607     1,649     1,931
                                                    ----------------------------
Treasury Stock, at cost:
   Balance at beginning of year                        (147)     (128)     (102)
   Acquisition of treasury stock                         (3)       --      (223)
   Stock issued under compensation plans                 21        24        17
   Stock-based compensation expense                       1         2         4
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                              (128)     (102)     (304)
                                                    ----------------------------
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss):
   Balance at beginning of year                         (11)       18       (57)
   Net other comprehensive income                        29        19        62
   Adjustment to initially apply SFAS 158,
    net of tax of $60 (Note 12)                          --       (94)       --
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                                18       (57)        5
                                                    ----------------------------
Total Stockholders' Equity                           $1,563    $1,573    $1,725
                                                    ============================
Comprehensive Income:
   Net income                                          $320      $389      $440
   Other comprehensive income (loss):
      Foreign currency translation adjustment            (3)       22        53
      Pension and other postretirement benefits
       adjustment, net of tax of $(21), $1,
       and $9 in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively      33        (1)       11
      Amounts related to cash flow hedges:
         Reclassification to earnings,
          net of tax of $2, $(2), and $(4)
          in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively          (4)        3         7
         Net gain (loss) on hedging instruments,
          net of tax of $(2), $3, and $6
          in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively           3        (6)       (9)
                                                    ----------------------------
            Net other comprehensive income               29        18        62
                                                    ----------------------------
   Total Comprehensive Income                          $349      $407      $502
                                                    ============================

Class A Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands):
   Balance at beginning of year                      56,782    56,829    56,870
   Acquisition of treasury stock                         --        --      (340)
   Stock issued under compensation plans                 47        41        43
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                            56,829    56,870    56,573
                                                    ----------------------------
Class B Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands):
   Balance at beginning of year                      65,106    65,636    66,367
   Acquisition of treasury stock                        (91)       --    (2,937)
   Stock issued under compensation plans                621       731       589
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                            65,636    66,367    64,019
                                                    ----------------------------
Total Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands)      122,465   123,237   120,592
                                                    ============================

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
            (Dollars expressed in millions, except per share amounts)


1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES

We apply the  following  accounting  policies when  preparing  our  consolidated
financial  statements.  References  to "FASB"  are to the  Financial  Accounting
Standards  Board, the  private-sector  organization  that establishes  financial
accounting and reporting standards, including Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS).

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.  Our consolidated  financial statements include the
accounts of all wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries.  We use the equity
method to account  for  investments  in  affiliates  over which we can  exercise
significant  influence  (but not  control).  We carry all other  investments  in
affiliates at cost. We eliminate all intercompany transactions.

CASH EQUIVALENTS.  Cash equivalents  include bank demand deposits and all highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.

SHORT-TERM   INVESTMENTS.   Short-term   investments  consist  of  auction  rate
securities and variable-rate  demand notes.  These investments are classified as
available-for-sale and recorded at cost, which approximated fair value.

ALLOWANCE  FOR DOUBTFUL  ACCOUNTS.  We evaluate the  collectibility  of accounts
receivable based on a combination of factors. When we are aware of circumstances
that may impair a specific customer's ability to meet its financial obligations,
we record a specific  allowance to reduce the net  recognized  receivable to the
amount we reasonably believe will be collected.

INVENTORIES.  We  state  inventories  at the  lower  of  cost  or  market,  with
approximately  62% of consolidated  inventories  being valued using the last-in,
first-out  (LIFO)  method.  Other  inventories  are valued  using the  first-in,
first-out  (FIFO) method.  If the FIFO method had been used,  inventories  would
have  been  $126 and $150  higher  than  reported  at April  30,  2007 and 2008,
respectively. FIFO cost approximates current replacement cost.

Whiskey  must be  barrel-aged  for several  years,  so we bottle and sell only a
portion of our whiskey  inventory each year.  Following  industry  practice,  we
classify  all  barreled  whiskey as a current  asset.  We  include  warehousing,
insurance,  ad valorem taxes, and other carrying charges  applicable to barreled
whiskey in inventory costs.

We classify bulk wine and agave inventories as work in process.

PROPERTY,  PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT. We state property, plant, and equipment at cost
less  accumulated  depreciation.  We calculate  depreciation  on a straight-line
basis over the estimated  useful lives of the assets as follows:  20 to 40 years
for  buildings  and  improvements;  3 to  10  years  for  machinery,  equipment,
vehicles,  furniture,  and fixtures;  and 3 to 7 years for capitalized  software
costs.

We assess our property,  plant,  and equipment and other  long-lived  assets for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying value of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Fair value is
determined using discounted  estimated future cash flows, with  consideration of
market  values  for  similar  assets  when  available.  If the fair  value of an
evaluated  asset is less than its book value,  we write it down to its estimated
fair value.

GOODWILL  AND  OTHER  INTANGIBLE  ASSETS.  We  assess  our  goodwill  and  other
intangible  assets for  impairment  at least  annually.  If the fair value of an
evaluated  asset is less than its book value,  the asset is written  down to its
estimated fair value. Fair value is determined using discounted estimated future
cash  flows,  with  consideration  of market  values  for  similar  assets  when
available.

FOREIGN  CURRENCY  TRANSLATION.  The U.S. dollar is the functional  currency for
most of our consolidated operations.  For those operations,  we report all gains
and losses from  foreign  currency  transactions  in current  income.  The local
currency is the  functional  currency  for some  foreign  operations.  For those
investments,  we  report  cumulative  translation  effects  as  a  component  of
accumulated  other  comprehensive  income (loss),  a component of  stockholders'
equity.

REVENUE  RECOGNITION.  We recognize  revenue when title and risk of loss pass to
the  customer,  which  typically is at the time the product is shipped.  Certain
sales contain customer acceptance provisions that grant a right of return on the
basis of either subjective criteria or specified objective criteria.  Revenue is
recorded net of the estimated cost of sales returns and allowances.

SALES  DISCOUNTS.  Sales  discounts,  which are  recorded as a reduction  of net
sales, totaled $157, $242, and $303 for 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively.

COST OF  SALES.  Cost of  sales  includes  the  costs of  receiving,  producing,
inspecting, warehousing, insuring, and shipping goods sold during the period.

SHIPPING  AND  HANDLING  FEES AND COSTS.  We report  the  amounts we bill to our
customers  for shipping  and  handling as net sales,  and we report the costs we
incur for shipping and handling as cost of sales.

ADVERTISING  COSTS. We expense the costs of advertising during the year in which
the advertisements first take place.

SELLING,   GENERAL,   AND  ADMINISTRATIVE   EXPENSES.   Selling,   general,  and
administrative  expenses  include  the costs  associated  with our sales  force,
administrative  staff  and  facilities,   and  other  expenses  related  to  the
non-manufacturing functions of our business.

EARNINGS PER SHARE.  Basic earnings per share is based upon the weighted average
number of all common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted earnings per
share includes the dilutive effect of stock-based compensation awards, including
stock options,  stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SSARs),  and non-vested
restricted stock.



The following table presents  information  concerning basic and diluted earnings
per share:

Year Ended April 30,                                 2006       2007       2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic and diluted net income (loss):
   Continuing operations                             $395       $400       $440
   Discontinued operations                            (75)       (11)        --
                                                  ------------------------------
      Total                                          $320       $389       $440
                                                  ==============================

Share data (in thousands):
   Basic average common shares outstanding        122,094    122,868    122,464
   Dilutive effect of non-vested restricted stock      31         59         91
   Dilutive effect of stock options and SSARs       1,314      1,274      1,054
                                                  ------------------------------
      Diluted average common shares outstanding   123,439    124,201    123,609
                                                  ==============================

Basic earnings (loss) per share:
   Continuing operations                            $3.24      $3.26      $3.59
   Discontinued operations                          (0.62)     (0.09)        --
                                                  ------------------------------
      Total                                         $2.62      $3.17      $3.59
                                                  ==============================

Diluted earnings (loss) per share:
   Continuing operations                            $3.20      $3.22      $3.55
   Discontinued operations                          (0.61)     (0.09)        --
                                                  ------------------------------
      Total                                         $2.60      $3.14      $3.56
                                                  ==============================

Note: Earnings (loss) per share amounts for continuing operations and
      discontinued operations may not add to total amount for the company
      due to rounding.


Stock-based  awards for  approximately  333,000 common shares and 756,000 common
shares were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share for 2007
and 2008,  respectively,  because the  exercise  price of the awards was greater
than the average market price of the shares.

In November 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $200
of outstanding  Class A and Class B common stock,  subject to market and certain
other  conditions.  We completed that share repurchase plan in March 2008. Under
the plan,  we  repurchased  a total of 2,977,250  shares  (42,600 of Class A and
2,934,650  of Class  B) for  $200.  The  average  repurchase  price  per  share,
including commissions, was $68.76 for Class A and $67.17 for Class B.

STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION.  Our stock-based  compensation  plan requires that we
purchase  shares  to  satisfy  stock-based  compensation  requirements,  thereby
avoiding  future  dilution of earnings that would occur from issuing  additional
shares.  We acquire  treasury  shares from time to time in anticipation of these
requirements.  We intend to hold  enough  treasury  stock so that the  number of
diluted  shares never exceeds the original  number of shares  outstanding at the
inception  of the  stock-based  compensation  plan (as  adjusted  for any  share
issuances  unrelated  to the  plan).  The  extent to which the number of diluted
shares  exceeds the number of basic shares is  determined  by how much our stock
price has appreciated since the stock-based compensation was awarded, not by how
many treasury shares we have acquired.

ESTIMATES.  To prepare financial statements that conform with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  our management must make informed estimates that affect
how we report revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities,  including contingent
assets and  liabilities.  Actual  results could (and probably  will) differ from
these estimates.

RECENT ACCOUNTING  PRONOUNCEMENTS.  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157,
"Fair Value Measurements," which defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and  Financial  Liabilities."  SFAS 159  permits  companies  to choose to
measure many  financial  instruments  and certain other items at fair value that
are not  currently  required  to be  measured  at  fair  value  and  establishes
presentation  and  disclosure  requirements  designed to facilitate  comparisons
between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar types
of assets and liabilities.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141(R),  "Business  Combinations,"  which
establishes   accounting   principles  and  disclosure   requirements   for  all
transactions in which a company obtains control over another business.

In  December  2007,  the FASB  issued  SFAS 160,  "Noncontrolling  Interests  in
Consolidated  Financial Statements," which prescribes the accounting by a parent
company for minority  interests  held by other  parties in a  subsidiary  of the
parent company.

In  March  2008,  the  FASB  issued  SFAS  161,  "Disclosures  about  Derivative
Instruments  and Hedging  Activities,"  which requires  qualitative  disclosures
about objectives and strategies for using derivatives,  quantitative disclosures
about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative instruments,  and
disclosures  about   credit-risk-related   contingent   features  in  derivative
agreements.

SFAS 157 and SFAS 159 become  effective  as of the  beginning of our 2009 fiscal
year.  However,  the FASB has  deferred,  until the beginning of our 2010 fiscal
year,  the effective date of SFAS 157 as it relates to  nonfinancial  assets and
liabilities  that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial
statements on a recurring basis. SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 become effective as of
the  beginning of our 2010 fiscal year,  while SFAS 161 becomes  effective as of
the end of our  2009  fiscal  year.  We do not  expect  our  adoption  of  these
pronouncements to have a material impact on our financial statements.

2.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

We sold our wholly-owned subsidiary Lenox, Inc. ("Lenox") during fiscal 2006. In
connection with the sale, we recognized a non-cash  impairment  charge of $60 in
July 2005. The impairment charge represented the excess of the carrying value of
the net  assets  sold  over  the  expected  sales  proceeds.  We  also  incurred
transaction  costs  related  to the sale,  including  legal,  tax, and actuarial
expenses, transaction success payments, and investment banking fees.

Lenox's  results of operations and the impairment  charge and other  transaction
costs have been classified as discontinued  operations,  net of income taxes, in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2006.



After we sold Lenox, we retained  ownership of Brooks & Bentley,  a former Lenox
subsidiary located in the U.K. We sold Brooks & Bentley in 2007. After reviewing
various  strategic  alternatives,  we  also  sold  our  wholly-owned  subsidiary
Hartmann,  Inc.  ("Hartmann")  in 2007.  Accordingly,  the operating  results of
Brooks & Bentley and Hartmann are classified as  discontinued  operations in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations.  The results of discontinued
operations  for 2007  include  a $9  impairment  charge.  The  majority  of this
impairment  relates to the  decision  made in 2007 by our Board of  Directors to
sell Hartmann and to focus our efforts entirely on our beverage business. The $7
pre-tax  impairment  charge  associated  with  Hartmann  consisted of a goodwill
impairment of $4 and an impairment  charge of $3 that  represented the excess of
the  carrying  value  of the net  assets  to be sold  over  the  expected  sales
proceeds, net of estimated costs to sell.

Before we decided to sell Hartmann, no impairment charge was recorded because we
believed its operations would generate sufficient future cash flows to enable us
to fully recover its carrying  amount.  The decision to sell Hartmann  reflected
the Board's  opinion that the sum of the price to be obtained  from the sale and
the  strategic  value of focusing  entirely on our  beverage  business  would be
greater than the value of continuing to operate Hartmann.

There was also a $2  pre-tax  impairment  charge  recorded  in 2007 for Brooks &
Bentley. This impairment charge reflected a revision to its estimated fair value
and costs to sell, based on the negotiations that resulted in its ultimate sale.

A summary of discontinued operations follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                             2006         2007         2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales                                       $ 166        $  50        $  --
Operating expenses                               (178)         (53)          --
Impairment charge                                 (60)          (9)          --
Transaction costs                                 (10)          (1)          --
                                                --------------------------------
   Loss before income taxes                       (82)         (13)          --

Income tax benefit                                  7            2           --
                                                --------------------------------
   Net loss from discontinued operations        $ (75)       $ (11)       $  --
                                                ================================


3.  ACQUISITIONS

We have  completed the  following  acquisitions  over the past three years.  The
operating  results  of each  acquired  entity  have been  consolidated  with our
financial statements since their respective acquisition dates.  Consolidated pro
forma operating results would not have been materially different from the actual
amounts reported.

CHAMBORD LIQUEUR.  In May 2006, we completed the acquisition of Chambord liqueur
and all related assets from Chatam International  Incorporated and its operating
subsidiary,  Charles Jacquin et Cie Inc., for $251, including transaction costs.
We believe that  Chambord,  which is  positioned  in the  super-premium  spirits
category,  fits well with our approach to brand building.  With the close of the
transaction, we acquired the Chambord trademark, French manufacturing operations
where the brand is  produced,  and the  services  of  employees  who work at the
facility.

The acquisition  consisted primarily of the Chambord brand name and goodwill, to
which we  allocated  $116  and $127 of the  purchase  price,  respectively.  The
transaction  provides valuable  strategic  opportunities,  which we believe will
enable  us  to  leverage  our  strong  brand-building  skills  and  our  current
distribution  network,  allowing us to grow sales of this  super-premium  priced
product  around the world.  We also  believe that the brand will provide us with
additional distributor influence and that it complements several other brands in
our portfolio, allowing for cross-selling,  merchandising,  and promotion, which
we expect will lead to overall increased sales.  These factors  contributed to a
purchase price that resulted in the recognition of $127 of goodwill.  The entire
amount allocated to goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes.

CASA HERRADURA. In January 2007, we completed the acquisition contemplated in an
August 2006 asset purchase  agreement among Jose Guillermo Romo de la Pena; Luis
Pedro Pablo Romo de la Pena;  Grupo  Industrial  Herradura,  S.A. de C.V. ("Casa
Herradura");   certain  of  their  respective  affiliates;   Brown-Forman;   and
Brown-Forman  Tequila Mexico,  S. de R.L. de C.V., a subsidiary of Brown-Forman.
We acquired substantially all of the assets of Casa Herradura and its affiliates
relating  to its  tequila  business,  including  the  Herradura  and el  Jimador
tequilas,  the New Mix  tequila-based ready-to-drink  brand, the trade names and
trademarks  associated  with such brands and other acquired  brands,  as well as
related  production  facilities  and  the  sales,  marketing,  and  distribution
organization in Mexico.

We believe this acquisition  provides us with several  strategic  opportunities,
including  the  ownership of two strong,  established  brands,  Herradura and el
Jimador, which compete at the super-premium and premium levels, respectively, in
the world's  largest  tequila  markets - the U.S. and Mexico.  In  addition,  we
believe the growth  potential for these brands is very  attractive  based on the
fact  that  tequila  is one of the  fastest-growing  spirits  category  in  both
markets. We expect these brands will help advance our entire business within the
Hispanic  population,  which is the fastest growing  demographic  segment in the
U.S.,  and increase our  participation  in the popular  cocktail  culture of the
U.S., where the tequila-based  margarita is the most frequently called-for mixed
drink. We believe the el Jimador ready-to-drink brand extension,  New Mix, which
is the category leader in the Mexican market, also has growth potential. We also
believe the  infrastructure in Mexico will give us a strong business platform to
advance  our  portfolio  in an  important  international  market  where  we have
historically  had very  little  presence.  We expect  to  leverage  our  current
distribution  network  outside  of  Mexico,  allowing  us to grow sales of these
super-premium  and premium brands in the U.S. and to expand the brands' presence
in the rest of the world,  where the  opportunities  for growth appear  numerous
given the very  limited  distribution  of tequila.  Finally,  by  expanding  and
diversifying  our  portfolio,  we believe that these brands will provide us with
additional  clout with our  distributors  and that the brands'  performance will
benefit  significantly  from our strong  brand-building  skills.  These  factors
contributed to a purchase price that resulted in the recognition of the goodwill
shown on the next page.



The cost of the acquisition was $794,  including  transaction  costs of $16, and
was allocated based on management's estimates as follows:

Cash                                                     $   2
Accounts receivable                                         39
Inventories                                                124
Other current assets                                        48
Property, plant, and equipment                              65
Deferred income taxes                                        4
Goodwill                                                   355
Trademarks and brand names                                 215
                                                          ----
   Total assets                                            852
                                                          ----

Accounts payable and accrued expenses                       52
Long-term debt                                               1
Other noncurrent liabilities                                 5
                                                          ----
   Total liabilities                                        58
                                                          ----
   Net assets acquired                                    $794
                                                          ====

Standard  valuation  procedures  were used in determining  the fair value of the
acquired  trademarks and brand names,  which were  determined to have indefinite
lives.  We expect the entire  goodwill  amount of $355 to be deductible  for tax
purposes.

We financed the acquisition with  approximately  $114 of cash and  approximately
$680 of commercial paper, $400 of which was subsequently replaced with long-term
debt.

4.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The following  table shows the changes in the amounts  recorded as goodwill over
the past two years:

   Balance as of April 30, 2006                   $192
   Acquisition of Chambord (Note 3)                127
   Acquisition of Casa Herradura (Note 3)          346
   Foreign currency translation adjustment           5
                                                  ----
   Balance as of April 30, 2007                    670
   Casa Herradura purchase price finalization        8
   Foreign currency translation adjustment          10
                                                  ----
   Balance as of April 30, 2008                   $688
                                                  ====

In May 2007,  we ended our  joint  ventures  in the  tequila  business  with the
Orendain  family of Mexico.  We had shared  ownership  of the "Don  Eduardo" and
other "Orendain"  trademarks and related intellectual property with the Orendain
family  since 1999  through two joint  venture  companies:  Tequila  Orendain de
Jalisco (TOJ) and BFC Tequila Limited (BFCTL). TOJ produced the tequila and held
the trademarks in Mexico.  BFCTL owned the trademarks for all markets  excluding
Mexico.  Upon  ending  the  joint  ventures  (which  were  not  material  to our
consolidated  results of  operations  or  financial  position),  we acquired the
remaining  portion of the global  trademark  for the Don  Eduardo  super-premium
tequila brand that we did not already own. In exchange, we paid $12 to the other
shareholders  of TOJ and BFCTL and surrendered to them our interest in all other
Orendain trademarks previously owned by these two companies.

As of April 30, 2007 and 2008, our other intangible assets consisted of:

                                        Gross Carrying          Accumulated
                                            Amount              Amortization
                                        2007     2008          2007      2008

Finite-lived intangible assets:
   Customer relationships               $  4     $ --          $ --      $ --
   Distribution rights                    25       25            (2)       (7)
                                        ----     ----          -----     -----
                                        $ 29     $ 25          $ (2)     $ (7)
                                        ====     ====          =====     =====
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
   Trademarks and brand names           $657     $681          $ --      $ --


Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $2 in 2007 and $5 in 2008.
We expect to recognize  amortization  expense of $5 in 2009,  $5 in 2010,  $5 in
2011, and $3 in 2012. However, actual amounts of future amortization expense may
differ due to additional intangible asset acquisitions, impairment of intangible
assets,   accelerated   amortization  of  intangible   assets,   purchase  price
reallocations, and other events.


5. COMMITMENTS

We have  contracted  with  various  growers  and  wineries to supply some of our
future grape and bulk wine requirements. Many of these contracts call for prices
to be determined by market  conditions,  but some contracts  provide for minimum
purchase  prices  that  may  exceed  market  prices.   We  have  total  purchase
obligations  related to both types of contracts of $29 in 2009, $22 in 2010, $16
in 2011, $11 in 2012, $8 in 2013, and $21 after 2013.

We also have  contracts  for the  purchase  of agave,  which is used to  produce
tequila.  These  contracts  provide for prices to be determined  based on market
conditions at the time of harvest, which, although not specified, is expected to
occur over the next 10 years.  As of April 30,  2008,  based on  current  market
prices, obligations under these contracts totaled $22.

We made rental payments for real estate,  vehicles,  and office,  computer,  and
manufacturing  equipment under operating leases of $16 in 2006, $19 in 2007, and
$19 in 2008. We have  commitments  related to minimum  lease  payments of $17 in
2009, $14 in 2010, $11 in 2011, $6 in 2012, $4 in 2013, and $4 after 2013.

6. CREDIT FACILITIES

We have a  committed  revolving  credit  agreement  with  various  domestic  and
international  banks for $800 that expires in fiscal 2012. Its most  restrictive
covenant requires that our consolidated  EBITDA (as defined in the agreement) to
consolidated  interest  expense not be less than a ratio of 3 to 1. At April 30,
2008, we were within this covenant's parameters.  At April 30, 2008, we also had
the  ability to issue an  undetermined  amount of debt  securities  under an SEC
shelf registration filed in January 2007.



7. DEBT

Our long-term debt consisted of the following:

April 30,                                              2007           2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3.0% notes, due in fiscal 2008                         $350           $ --
Variable-rate notes, due in fiscal 2010                 150            150
5.2% notes, due in fiscal 2012                          250            250
Other                                                    26             21
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        776            421
Less current portion                                    354              4
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $422           $417
                                                 ===============================

Debt  payments  required  over the next five fiscal years consist of $4 in 2009,
$154 in 2010, $4 in 2011,  $253 in 2012,  and $3 in 2013.  The weighted  average
interest rate on the variable-rate notes was 5.4% and 4.0% at April 30, 2007 and
2008, respectively.  In addition to long-term debt, we had short-term borrowings
outstanding  with weighted  average interest rates of 5.3% and 2.2% at April 30,
2007 and 2008, respectively.

8. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

We use foreign  currency  options and forward  contracts to protect  against the
risk that the eventual  U.S.  dollar cash flows  resulting  from our  forecasted
sales  and  purchases  of goods  and  services  in  foreign  currencies  will be
adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. In general,  average maturities
are  less  than one  year,  although  at April  30,  2008,  we had some  forward
contracts with maturities  approaching two years. We designate these  derivative
financial instruments as cash flow hedges.

We had  outstanding  foreign  currency  options and forward  contracts,  hedging
primarily  British  pound,  Australian  dollar,  euro,  and South  African  rand
revenues,  with  notional  amounts  totaling $406 and $342 at April 30, 2007 and
2008,  respectively.  We also had forward  contracts hedging the fair value of a
Mexican  peso-denominated  intercompany  receivable,  with a  notional  value of
approximately $120 and $49 at April 30, 2007 and 2008, respectively.  Our credit
exposure is,  however,  limited to the contracts' fair value (see Note 9) rather
than their  notional  amounts.  We minimize  credit  exposure  by entering  into
foreign  currency  contracts only with major  financial  institutions  that have
earned investment-grade credit ratings.

As of April 30, 2008, we have an interest rate swap contract  outstanding with a
$75 notional value to fix the rate on a portion of our  variable-rate  notes for
the nine-month period ending July 1, 2008. We have designated this contract as a
cash flow hedge.

We  formally  assess  (both at  inception  and at least  quarterly)  whether the
derivative financial instruments are effective at offsetting changes in the cash
flows  of  the  hedged  transactions.  We  defer  the  effective  portion  of  a
derivative's  change in fair value in  Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Income
(Loss) until the underlying  hedged  transaction  is recognized in earnings.  We
recognize any  ineffective  portion of the change in fair value  immediately  in
earnings.  No material  gains or losses were  recognized  in earnings due to the
ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges.

We also had  outstanding  exchange-traded  futures  and options  contracts  on 1
million  and 3  million  bushels  of  corn  as  of  April  30,  2007  and  2008,
respectively.  As these  contracts are not  designated as hedges for  accounting
purposes,  gains  and  losses  related  to them are  immediately  recognized  in
earnings.

9. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair value of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and short-term
borrowings approximates the carrying amount due to the short maturities of these
instruments.

We estimate the fair value of long-term debt using  discounted  cash flows based
on our incremental borrowing rates for similar debt. The fair value of commodity
and foreign currency contracts is based on quoted market prices. A comparison of
the fair values and carrying amounts of these instruments is as follows:


April 30,                              2007                       2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Carrying      Fair         Carrying       Fair
                                 Amount       Value         Amount       Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets:
   Cash and cash equivalents      $283        $283           $119         $119
   Short-term investments           86          86             --           --
   Commodity contracts              --          --              7            7

Liabilities:
   Foreign currency contracts        4           4             10           10
   Short-term borrowings           401         401            585          585
   Current portion of
    long-term debt                 354         347              4            4
   Long-term debt                  422         422            417          417



10.  BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

Supplemental information on our year-end balance sheet is as follows:


April 30,                                              2007           2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, plant, and equipment:
   Land                                                $ 88           $ 88
   Buildings                                            323            342
   Equipment                                            446            453
   Construction in process                               27             24
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        884            907
   Less accumulated depreciation                        378            406
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $506           $501
                                                 ===============================

Accounts payable and accrued expenses:
   Accounts payable, trade                             $118           $129
   Accrued expenses:
      Advertising                                        65             67
      Compensation and commissions                       93             86
      Excise and other non-income taxes                  41             41
      Self-insurance claims                              10             10
      Postretirement benefits                             4              7
      Interest                                            3              2
      Other                                              27             38
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        243            251
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $361           $380
                                                 ===============================



11. INCOME TAXES

We incur income  taxes on the  earnings of our domestic and foreign  operations.
The following  table,  based on the locations of the taxable entities from which
sales were  derived  (rather  than the  location  of  customers),  presents  the
domestic and foreign components of our income before income taxes:

Year Ended April 30,                        2006          2007           2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States                               $395          $489           $533
Foreign                                      164            97            111
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            $559          $586           $644
                                            ====================================

The  income  shown  above  was  determined  according  to  financial  accounting
standards.  Because those standards  sometimes differ from the tax rules used to
calculate  taxable  income,  there are  differences  between:  (a) the amount of
taxable income and pre-tax financial income for a year; and (b) the tax bases of
assets or liabilities and their amounts as recorded in our financial statements.
As a result,  we recognize a current tax liability for the estimated  income tax
payable on the current tax return,  and  deferred  tax  liabilities  (income tax
payable on income that will be  recognized  on future tax  returns) and deferred
tax assets (income tax refunds from deductions that will be recognized on future
tax returns)  for the  estimated  effects of the  differences  mentioned  above.
Deferred tax assets and  liabilities as of the end of each of the last two years
were as follows:

April 30,                                              2007           2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Postretirement and other benefits                   $ 71           $ 71
   Accrued liabilities and other                          9             25
   Inventories                                           62             76
   Loss carryforwards                                    46             32
   Valuation allowance                                  (32)           (28)
                                             -----------------------------------
   Total deferred tax assets, net                       156            176
                                             -----------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Trademarks and brand names                           (96)          (123)
   Property, plant, and equipment                       (40)           (40)
                                             -----------------------------------
   Total deferred tax liabilities                      (136)          (163)
                                             -----------------------------------
Net deferred tax asset                                 $ 20           $ 13
                                             ===================================

The $28  valuation  allowance  at April 30, 2008,  relates  primarily to the $23
capital loss carryforward  associated with the sale of Lenox during fiscal 2006.
Currently,  we are unaware of any  transaction  that will permit the use of this
carryforward,  which expires in fiscal 2011. The remaining  valuation  allowance
relates to other capital loss carryforwards that expire in fiscal 2012.

Deferred tax liabilities were not provided on undistributed  earnings of certain
foreign  subsidiaries  ($230 and $233 at April 30, 2007 and 2008,  respectively)
because we expect these  undistributed  earnings to be  reinvested  indefinitely
overseas.  If  these  amounts  were  not  considered   permanently   reinvested,
additional deferred tax liabilities of approximately $41 and $42 would have been
provided as of April 30, 2007 and 2008, respectively.

Total income tax expense for a year includes the tax associated with the current
tax return  ("current tax expense") and the change in the net deferred tax asset
or liability ("deferred tax expense").  Total income tax expense for each of the
last three years was as follows:


Year Ended April 30,                        2006          2007          2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current:
   Federal                                  $153          $141          $154
   Foreign                                    16            27            26
   State and local                            19            16            19
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             188           184           199
                                            ------------------------------------

Deferred:
   Federal                                   (11)            5             3
   Foreign                                    (8)            1             4
   State and local                            (5)           (4)           (2)
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             (24)            2             5
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            $164          $186          $204
                                            ====================================

Our consolidated  effective tax rate may differ from current statutory rates due
to the  recognition  of  amounts  for  events or  transactions  that have no tax
consequences.  The  following  table  reconciles  our  effective tax rate to the
federal statutory tax rate in the U.S.:

                                             Percent of Income Before Taxes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                        2006          2007           2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. federal statutory rate                 35.0%         35.0%          35.0%
State taxes, net of U.S.
 federal tax benefit                         1.3           1.3            1.5
Income taxed at other than U.S.
 federal statutory rate                     (1.5)         (1.5)          (1.8)
Tax benefit from export sales               (1.6)         (1.0)            --
Tax benefit from U.S. manufacturing         (0.7)         (0.7)          (1.8)
Capital loss benefit                        (2.8)           --             --
Other, net                                  (0.4)         (1.4)          (1.2)
                                           -------------------------------------
Effective rate                              29.3%         31.7%          31.7%
                                           =====================================

Effective May 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48,  "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes - an Interpretation of  FASB  Statement  No.  109,"  which  clarifies  the
accounting for uncertainty in tax positions.  This interpretation  required that
we recognize in our  financial  statements  the impact of a tax position if that
position  is more  likely  than  not to be  sustained  on  audit,  based  on the
technical  merits of the position.  Upon adoption,  we made no adjustment to our
unrecognized tax benefits.



At April 30, 2008, we had $35 of gross  unrecognized tax benefits,  $26 of which
would reduce our effective income tax rate if recognized.  A  reconciliation  of
the beginning and ending unrecognized tax benefits follows:

Unrecognized tax benefits, May 1, 2007                          $43
Additions for tax positions provided in prior periods             1
Additions for tax positions provided in current period            4
Settlements of tax positions in the current period               (7)
Lapse of statutes of limitations                                 (6)
                                                               -----
Unrecognized tax benefits, April 30, 2008                       $35
                                                               =====

We record  interest  and  penalties  related to  unrecognized  tax benefits as a
component of our income tax provision. At April 30, 2008, the gross interest and
penalties provided on FIN 48 contingencies in our consolidated balance sheet was
$8. Due to the above-noted settlements and lapses of statutes of limitations, we
reversed  certain  accruals of interest and penalties  during 2008. As a result,
the net amount of interest and penalties that reduced our effective tax rate and
is reflected in our consolidated statement of operations was approximately $1.

We file  income  tax  returns  in the U.S.,  including  several  state and local
jurisdictions,  as well as in various other  countries  throughout  the world in
which we conduct  business.  The major  jurisdictions  and their earliest fiscal
years that are currently open for tax examinations are 1998 in the U.S., 2004 in
Ireland and Italy; 2003 in the U.K.; and 2002 in Finland and Poland.

We believe it is reasonably  possible that the gross  unrecognized  tax benefits
may decrease by approximately $5 in the next 12 months because of the expiration
of statutes of limitations for various state income tax positions.

12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

We sponsor various defined benefit pension plans as well as postretirement plans
providing  retiree health care and retiree life insurance  benefits.  Below,  we
discuss our obligations  related to these plans, the assets dedicated to meeting
the obligations,  and the amounts we recognized in our financial statements as a
result of sponsoring  these plans.  We use a  measurement  date of January 31 to
determine the amounts of the plan obligations and assets presented below.

OBLIGATIONS.   We   provide   eligible   employees   with   pension   and  other
post-retirement  benefits  based  on  such  factors  as  years  of  service  and
compensation  level  during  employment.  The  pension  obligation  shown  below
("projected benefit  obligation")  consists of: (a) benefits earned by employees
to date based on current salary levels ("accumulated benefit  obligation");  and
(b) benefits to be received by employees as a result of expected  future  salary
increases.  (The  obligation  for  medical  and life  insurance  benefits is not
affected by future salary  increases.) This table shows how the present value of
our obligation changed during each of the last two years.

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2007      2008        2007      2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Obligation at beginning of year           $414      $448        $ 53      $ 53
Service cost                                13        13           1         1
Interest cost                               24        27           3         3
Actuarial loss (gain)                       14       (21)         --        (3)
Plan amendments                             --         1          --        --
Retiree contributions                       --        --           1         1
Benefits paid                              (16)      (17)         (4)       (3)
Effect of Hartmann sale                     (1)       --          (1)       --
                                        ----------------------------------------
Obligation at end of year                 $448      $451        $ 53      $ 52
                                        ========================================

Service cost represents the present value of the benefits  attributed to service
rendered by  employees  during the year.  Interest  cost is the  increase in the
present value of the  obligation  due to the passage of time. Net actuarial loss
(gain)  is the  change  in value of the  obligation  resulting  from  experience
different  from that  assumed or from a change in an actuarial  assumption.  (We
discuss actuarial assumptions used at the end of this note.)

As shown in the previous  table,  our pension and other  postretirement  benefit
obligations   were  reduced  by  benefit   payments  in  2008  of  $17  and  $3,
respectively. Expected benefit payments over the next 10 years are as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2009                                           $ 21                  $ 3
2010                                             22                    3
2011                                             24                    3
2012                                             25                    3
2013                                             26                    3
2014-2018                                       155                   16


ASSETS.  We  specifically  invest in certain assets in order to fund our pension
benefit  obligations.  Our investment  goal is to earn a total return that, over
time,  will grow  assets  sufficiently  to fund our  plans'  liabilities,  after
providing  appropriate  levels of contributions  and accepting prudent levels of
investment  risk.  To achieve this goal,  plan assets are invested  primarily in
funds or portfolios of funds actively  managed by outside  managers.  Investment
risk is  managed by  company  policies  that  require  diversification  of asset
classes,  manager  styles,  and  individual  holdings.  We measure  and  monitor
investment risk through quarterly and annual performance  reviews,  and periodic
asset/liability studies.



Asset allocation is the most important method for achieving our investment goals
and is based on our assessment of the plans' long-term return objectives and the
appropriate balances needed for liquidity,  stability, and diversification.  The
allocation  of our  pension  plan  assets at fair value on January  31, 2007 and
2008, and the target allocation for 2009, by asset category, are as follows:

                                                     Asset Allocation
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          Actual          Actual          Target
                                           2007            2008            2009
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity securities                           71%             56%             57%
Debt securities                             15              22              20
Real estate                                  6              10               8
Other                                        8              12              15
                                        ----------------------------------------
Total                                      100%            100%            100%
                                        ========================================

This table shows how the fair value of the pension  plan assets  changed  during
each of the last two years. (We do not have assets set aside for  postretirement
medical or life insurance benefits).

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2007      2008        2007      2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value at beginning of year           $368      $396        $ --      $ --
Actual return on plan assets                42        16          --        --
Retiree contributions                       --        --           1         1
Company contributions                        2         2           3         2
Benefits paid                              (16)      (17)         (4)       (3)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Fair value at end of year                 $396      $397        $ --      $ --
                                        ========================================


Consistent  with  our  funding  policy,  we  expect  to  contribute  $3  to  our
postretirement  medical and life insurance  benefit plans in 2009.  While we may
decide to contribute  more, we currently  expect to contribute $4 to our pension
plans in 2009.

FUNDED STATUS.  The funded status of a plan refers to the difference between its
assets and its obligations.  Before we adopted SFAS 158 (discussed below),  this
amount  differed  from the amount  recorded as a net asset or  liability  on the
balance sheet. This table shows the funded status of our plans.

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2007      2008         2007     2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets                                   $ 396     $ 397         $ --     $ --
Obligations                               (448)     (451)         (53)     (52)
Assets contributed
 after measurement date                     --         1            1       --
                                          --------------------------------------
Funded status                            $ (52)    $ (53)        $(52)    $(52)
                                          ======================================

The net liability is recorded on the balance sheet as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2007      2008        2007      2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid pension cost                      $ 23      $ 23        $ --      $ --
Accounts payable and accrued expenses       (1)       (4)         (3)       (3)
Accrued postretirement benefits            (74)      (72)        (49)      (49)
                                          --------------------------------------
Net liability                             $(52)     $(53)       $(52)     $(52)
                                          ======================================

Accumulated other comprehensive loss:
   Net actuarial loss                     $148      $131         $  9     $  5
   Prior service cost                        5         5            1        1
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          $153      $136         $ 10     $  6
                                          ======================================



On April 30,  2007,  we adopted  SFAS 158,  "Employers'  Accounting  for Defined
Benefit  Pension and Other  Postretirement  Plans."  SFAS 158  requires  that we
recognize  the funded  status of our  pension and other  postretirement  benefit
plans as an asset or  liability  on our balance  sheet.  SFAS 158 also  requires
that,  beginning in 2009, the assumptions used to measure our annual pension and
other  postretirement  benefit  expenses be  determined  as of the balance sheet
date, and all plan assets and liabilities be reported as of that date.

The following table  illustrates the incremental  effect of applying SFAS 158 on
individual line items on our balance sheet as of April 30, 2007:

                                       Before                           After
                                     Application                     Application
                                     of SFAS 158     Adjustments     of SFAS 158
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid pension cost                   $  134          $(111)           $   23
Total assets                            3,662           (111)            3,551
Accounts payable and
 accrued expenses                         357              4               361
Accrued postretirement benefits            84             39               123
Deferred income taxes                     116            (60)               56
Total liabilities                       1,995            (17)            1,978
Accumulated other
 comprehensive gain (loss)                 37            (94)              (57)
Total stockholders' equity              1,667            (94)            1,573
Total liabilities and
 stockholders' equity                   3,662           (111)            3,551


This  table  compares  our  pension  plans  that have  assets in excess of their
accumulated  benefit  obligations  with those  whose  assets are less than their
obligations. (As discussed above, we have no assets set aside for postretirement
medical or life insurance benefits).

                                                   Accumulated       Projected
                                                    Benefit           Benefit
                                 Plan Assets       Obligation        Obligation
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 2007   2008       2007   2008      2007   2008
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Plans with assets in
 excess of accumulated
 benefit obligation              $396   $397       $346   $336      $396   $397
Plans with accumulated
 benefit obligation in
 excess of assets                  --     --         42     45        52     54
                                ------------------------------------------------
Total                            $396   $397       $388   $381      $448   $451
                                ================================================


PENSION  EXPENSE.  This  table  shows  the  components  of the  pension  expense
recognized  during  each of the last  three  years.  The  amount  for each  year
includes  amortization  of  the  prior  service  cost  and  net  loss  that  was
unrecognized as of the beginning of the year.

                                                     Pension Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           2006            2007            2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                               $ 13            $ 13            $ 13
Interest cost                                22              24              27
Expected return on plan assets              (32)            (32)            (32)
Amortization of:
   Prior service cost                         1               1               1
   Net actuarial loss                         8              12              12
                                       -----------------------------------------
Net expense                                $ 12            $ 18            $ 21
                                       =========================================

The prior service cost  represents the cost of retroactive  benefits  granted in
plan  amendments  and is  amortized  on a  straight-line  basis over the average
remaining service period of the employees expected to receive the benefits.  The
net loss results from experience different from that assumed or from a change in
actuarial  assumptions,  and is amortized  over at least that same  period.  The
estimated  amount of prior service cost and net loss that will be amortized from
accumulated other  comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2009 is $1 and $8,
respectively.

The pension  expense  recorded  during the year is estimated at the beginning of
the year. As a result, the amount is calculated using an expected return on plan
assets rather than the actual return. The difference between actual and expected
returns is included in the unrecognized net gain or loss at the end of the year.



OTHER  POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFIT  EXPENSE.  This table shows the components of the
postretirement  medical and life  insurance  benefit  expense that we recognized
during each of the last three years.

                                           Medical and Life Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           2006            2007            2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                                $1              $1              $1
Interest cost                                3               3               3
                                       -----------------------------------------
Net expense                                 $4              $4              $4
                                       =========================================

OTHER  COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME.  Since we adopted SFAS 158,  changes in the funded
status of our benefit  plans that are not  recognized  in net income (as pension
and other  postretirement  benefit  expense)  are  instead  recognized  in other
comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income is also adjusted to reflect the
amortization of the prior service cost and net actuarial gain or loss,  which is
a component  of net  pension  and other  postretirement  benefit  expense,  from
accumulated other  comprehensive  income (loss) to net income.  This table shows
the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income during 2008:

                                                Pension        Medical and Life
                                                Benefits      Insurance Benefits

Prior service cost                                $ 1              $ --
Actuarial gain                                     (5)               (3)
Amortization reclassified to net income:
   Prior service cost                              (1)               --
   Net actuarial loss                             (12)               --
                                                 -----             -----
Net amount recognized in
 other comprehensive income                      $(17)             $ (3)
                                                 =====             =====

ASSUMPTIONS  AND  SENSITIVITY.  We use  various  assumptions  to  determine  the
obligations and expense related to our pension and other postretirement  benefit
plans. The assumptions used in computing  benefit plan obligations as of the end
of the last two years were as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                                2007      2008        2007      2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                             6.04      6.64        5.98      6.45
Rate of salary increase                   4.00      4.00         --        --
Expected return on plan assets            8.75      8.75         --        --


The assumptions  used in computing  benefit plan expense during each of the last
three years were as follows:

                                          Pension            Medical and Life
                                          Benefits          Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                          2006    2007    2008    2006    2007    2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                       5.80    5.95    6.04    5.80    5.95    5.98
Rate of salary increase             4.00    4.00    4.00     --      --      --
Expected return on plan assets      8.75    8.75    8.75     --      --      --


The discount  rate  represents  the interest  rate used to discount the cashflow
stream of benefit  payments to a net present  value as of the  current  date.  A
lower  assumed  discount  rate  increases  the  present  value  of  the  benefit
obligation.  We  determined  the discount  rate using a yield curve based on the
interest rates of high-quality debt securities with maturities  corresponding to
the expected timing of our benefit payments.

The assumed rate of salary  increase  reflects the expected  annual  increase in
salaries as a result of inflation,  merit  increases,  and  promotions.  A lower
assumed rate decreases the present value of the benefit obligation.

The expected return on plan assets  represents the long-term rate of return that
we assume will be earned over the life of the pension  assets,  considering  the
distribution  of  those  assets  among  investment  categories  and the  related
historical rates of return.

The  assumed  health  care cost trend  rates as of the end of the last two years
were as follows:

                                         Medical and Life Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                                       2007           2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year:
   Present rate before age 65                    10.0            9.0
   Present rate age 65 and after                 10.0            9.0


We project health care cost trend rates to decline gradually to 5.0% by 2012 and
to remain  level  after  that.  Assumed  health  care cost  trend  rates  have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for  postretirement  medical plans. A
one percentage point  increase/decrease  in assumed health care cost trend rates
would have increased/decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
as of April 30, 2008,  by $5 and the  aggregate  service and interest  costs for
2008 by less than $1.



SAVINGS PLANS. We also sponsor various defined  contribution  benefit plans that
in total  cover  substantially  all  employees.  Employees  can  make  voluntary
contributions in accordance with the provisions of their respective plans, which
includes a 401(k) tax deferral option.  We match a percentage of each employee's
contributions  in accordance  with the provisions of the plans.  We expensed $7,
$8, and $9 for matching contributions during 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively.


13. SEGMENT INFORMATION

The following table presents net sales by product category:

                                   2006              2007              2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
   Spirits                       $2,049            $2,425            $2,896
   Wine                             363               381               386
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                 $2,412            $2,806            $3,282
                                 ===============================================

The following table presents net sales by geographic region:

                                   2006              2007              2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
   United States                 $1,404            $1,498            $1,564
   Europe                           709               816               955
   Other                            299               492               763
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                 $2,412            $2,806            $3,282
                                 ===============================================

Net sales are attributed to countries based on where customers are located.  The
net book value of property,  plant, and equipment  located in Mexico was $63 and
$64 as of April 30, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Other long-lived assets located
outside the U.S. are not significant.


14.  CONTINGENCIES

We operate in a litigious  environment,  and we are sued in the normal course of
business. Sometimes plaintiffs seek substantial damages. Significant judgment is
required in predicting the outcome of these suits and claims, many of which take
years to adjudicate. We accrue estimated costs for a contingency when we believe
that a loss is probable and we can make a reasonable  estimate of the loss,  and
adjust the accrual as appropriate to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.

Brown-Forman Corporation and many other manufacturers of spirits, wine, and beer
were defendants in a series of nine essentially  identical putative class action
lawsuits that began in 2003 seeking  damages and  injunctive  relief for alleged
marketing of beverage alcohol to underage consumers.  As each of these cases has
been  dismissed  or  withdrawn,  the  last in  November  2007,  this  series  of
litigation is concluded.


15.  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

Under our 2004  Omnibus  Compensation  Plan  (the  "Plan"),  we can grant  stock
options and other  stock-based  incentive awards for a total of 5,946,000 shares
of common stock to eligible employees until July 22, 2014. As of April 30, 2008,
awards for 4,412,000 shares remain available for issuance under the Plan. Shares
delivered  to  employees  are limited by the Plan to shares that we purchase for
this purpose. No new shares may be issued.

We grant stock options and SSARs at an exercise  price of not less than the fair
value of the underlying stock on the grant date. Stock options and SSARs granted
under the Plan  become  exercisable  after three years from the first day of the
fiscal year of grant and expire seven years after that date. The grant-date fair
values of these awards granted during 2006, 2007, and 2008 were $12.59,  $16.46,
and  $15.25  per award,  respectively.  Fair  values  were  estimated  using the
Black-Scholes pricing model with the following assumptions:

                                      2006      2007      2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Risk-free interest rate               4.0%      5.0%      4.7%
Expected volatility                  22.0%     16.9%     17.2%
Expected dividend yield               1.9%      1.8%      1.7%
Expected life (years)                   6         6         6




Here is a summary of stock option and SSAR  activity  under the Plan as of April
30, 2008, and changes during the year then ended:



The total intrinsic value of options and SSARs exercised  during 2006, 2007, and
2008 was $23, $26, and $31, respectively.

We also grant restricted  shares of common stock under the Plan. As of April 30,
2008, there are  approximately  150,000  restricted shares  outstanding,  with a
weighted-average  remaining restriction period of 2.7 years. The following table
summarizes restricted stock activity during 2008.

                                                     Weighted
                                 Restricted          Average
                                   Shares           Grant Date
                               (in thousands)       Fair Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Oustanding at May 1, 2007           122              $49.79
Granted                              43               73.11
Vested                              (15)              55.92
                                    ---
Outstanding at April 30, 2008       150              $55.86
                                    ===

The  total  fair  value of  restricted  stock  vested  during  2008  was $1.  No
restricted stock vested during 2006 or 2007.

The  accompanying  consolidated  statements of operations  reflect  compensation
expense  related to  stock-based  incentive  awards on a pre-tax  basis of $8 in
2006,  $8 in 2007,  and $10 in 2008,  partially  offset by  deferred  income tax
benefits of $3 in 2006, $3 in 2007, and $4 in 2008. As of April 30, 2008,  there
was $10 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock-based
compensation.  That cost is expected to be  recognized  over a  weighted-average
period of 2.2 years.


16.  OTHER INCOME

In July 2005,  we  entered  into an  agreement  with LVMH Moet  Hennessey  Louis
Vuitton for the early  termination  of our  long-term  importing  and  marketing
agreements for Glenmorangie  products in the U.S., Canada, and certain countries
in Europe and Asia,  effective July 29, 2005. We received  approximately $14 for
the early termination,  which is included in other income for fiscal 2006 in the
accompanying consolidated statement of operations.

In January 2006, we received  proceeds of $25 as compensation  for Pernod Ricard
assuming  the  distribution  of its  brands  from Swift & Moore,  an  Australian
distribution  company  co-owned  by Pernod  Ricard  (following  its  purchase of
Allied-Domecq)  and us. This amount is recorded in other income for fiscal 2006.
Pernod  Ricard  surrendered  its  ownership  interest  in  Swift &  Moore  to us
effective  February 1, 2006,  resulting  in our  becoming  100% owner of Swift &
Moore as of that  date.  Swift & Moore,  which  is now  Brown-Forman  Australia,
continues to distribute our brands in Australia.

In January  2006,  we sold  winery  land and  buildings  in  California  for $7,
resulting in a gain of $5 that is included in other income for fiscal 2006.

In September  2006, we entered into an agreement with Gruppo Italiano Vini (GIV)
for the production of Bolla Italian wines. Under the agreement, we also sold our
main Bolla wine  production  facility in  Pedemonte,  Italy,  to GIV,  which now
produces  Bolla  Italian  Wines for us. We recognized a gain on the sale of $11,
which is included in other income for fiscal 2007.  The agreement also named GIV
as Bolla's  distributor in the Italian domestic market. We maintained  worldwide
ownership of the Bolla trademark and continue to sell Bolla Wines in the brand's
other markets.



                             REPORTS OF MANAGEMENT

MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our management is responsible for the preparation,  presentation,  and integrity
of the financial  information  presented in this Annual Report. The consolidated
financial  statements  were prepared in conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the U.S. (GAAP),  including amounts based on management's
best  estimates  and  judgments.   In  management's  opinion,  the  consolidated
financial statements fairly present the Company's financial position, results of
operations, and cash flows.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,  which is composed of independent
directors,  meets regularly with the independent  registered  public  accounting
firm,  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP (PwC), internal auditors, and representatives
of management to review accounting,  internal control  structure,  and financial
reporting  matters.  The internal auditors and PwC have full, free access to the
Audit Committee.  As set forth in our Code of Conduct and Compliance Guidelines,
we are firmly  committed  to  adhering  to the  highest  standards  of moral and
ethical behaviors in all of our business activities.


MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Management  is  also  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  adequate
internal  control over financial  reporting,  as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934.  Our  internal  control  over  financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial  statements for external
purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.

Under our supervision, and with the participation of management, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework and criteria in "Internal  Control - Integrated
Framework"  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.  Based on this evaluation,  we concluded that the Company's internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of April 30, 2008.

There  has been no change  in the  Company's  internal  control  over  financial
reporting during the most recent fiscal year that has materially affected, or is
reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  the Company's  internal  control over
financial  reporting.  Management's  assessment  of  the  effectiveness  of  the
Company's  internal  control over financial  reporting as of April 30, 2008, has
been audited by PwC as stated in their report that appears on page 50.



/s/ Paul C. Varga
Paul C. Varga
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer



/s/ Donald C. Berg
Donald C. Berg
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



            REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION:

In our opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets and the related
consolidated  statements of operations,  cash flows,  and  stockholders'  equity
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Brown-Forman
Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") at April 30, 2008 and April 30,
2007,  and the results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period  ended April 30, 2008 in  conformity  with  accounting
principles  generally  accepted  in the United  States of  America.  Also in our
opinion,  the Company maintained,  in all material respects,  effective internal
control  over  financial  reporting  as of April  30,  2008,  based on  criteria
established in "Internal Control - Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring  Organizations of the Treadway  Commission  (COSO).  The Company's
management  is  responsible  for these  financial  statements,  for  maintaining
effective  internal  control over financial  reporting and for its assessment of
the  effectiveness  of internal  control over financial  reporting,  included in
Management's  Report on Internal Control over Financial  Reporting  appearing on
page 49 of this Annual Report to Stockholders.  Our responsibility is to express
opinions on these  financial  statements and on the Company's  internal  control
over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits
in accordance  with the  standards of the Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight
Board  (United  States).  Those  standards  require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of  material  misstatement  and whether  effective  internal  control  over
financial  reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the
financial  statements included examining,  on a test basis,  evidence supporting
the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements,   assessing  the
accounting  principles  used and significant  estimates made by management,  and
evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.  Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial  reporting,  assessing the risk that a material  weakness
exists,  and testing and  evaluating the design and operating  effectiveness  of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing
such other  procedures  as we  considered  necessary  in the  circumstances.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company's  internal control over financial  reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable  assurance  regarding the reliability of financial  reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions of the assets of the company;  (ii)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company;  and (iii) provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  prevention or
timely  detection  of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use,  or  disposition  of the
company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent  limitations,  internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
June 27, 2008




               IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This  Annual  Report  contains  statements,   estimates,   or  projections  that
constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined under U.S. federal securities
laws.  Generally,  the words "expect," "believe," "intend,"  "estimate," "will,"
"anticipate,"  "project,"  and similar  expressions  identify a  forward-looking
statement,  which speaks only as of the date the  statement  is made.  Except as
required  by law,  we do not  intend to update  or  revise  any  forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
We  believe  that  the   expectations   and  assumptions  with  respect  to  our
forward-looking statements are reasonable. But by their nature,  forward-looking
statements  involve known and unknown  risks,  uncertainties,  and other factors
that in some cases are out of our control.  These factors could cause our actual
results to differ  materially  from our  historical  experience  or our  current
expectations  or  projections.  Here is a  non-exclusive  list of such risks and
uncertainties:

 - continuation of the deterioration in general economic conditions,
   particularly in the U.S., where we earn about half of our profits, and
   other markets with economies linked to the U.S., including higher energy
   prices, declining home prices, deterioration of the sub-prime lending
   market, decreased discretionary income, or other factors;
 - pricing, marketing, and other competitive activity focused against our
   major brands;
 - lower consumer confidence or purchasing related to economic conditions,
   major natural disasters, terrorist attacks, or widespread outbreak of
   infectious diseases;
 - tax increases, tariff barriers, or other restrictions affecting beverage
   alcohol, whether at the federal or state level in the U.S. or in other
   major markets around the world, and the unpredictability or suddenness
   with which they can occur;
 - limitations and restrictions on distribution of products and alcohol
   marketing, including advertising and promotion, as a result of stricter
   governmental policies adopted either in the U.S. or in our other major
   markets;
 - fluctuations in the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, especially
   the British pound, euro, Australian dollar, and the South African rand;
 - reduced bar, restaurant, hotel, and travel business, including travel retail;
 - longer-term, a change in consumer preferences, societal attitudes, or
   cultural trends that results in the reduced consumption of our premium
   beverage alcohol or our ready-to-drink products;
 - changes in distribution arrangements in major markets that limit our
   ability to market or sell our products;
 - adverse impacts relating to our acquisition strategies or our integration
   of acquired businesses and conforming them to our trade practice standards,
   financial controls environment, and U.S. public company requirements;
 - price increases in energy or raw materials, including grapes, grain, agave,
   wood, glass, or plastic;
 - changes in climate conditions, agricultural uncertainties, or other supply
   limitations that adversely affect the price, availability, or quality of
   grapes, agave, grain, glass, closures, or wood;
 - termination of our rights to distribute and market agency brands in our
   portfolio;
 - press articles or other public media related to our company, brands,
   personnel, operations, business performance, or prospects;
 - counterfeit production of our products and any resulting negative effect
   on our intellectual property rights or brand equity; and
 - adverse developments stemming from state or federal investigations of
   beverage alcohol industry marketing or trade practices of suppliers,
   distributors, or retailers.



                                                                     Exhibit 21

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

                                          Percentage           State or
                                          of Voting          Jurisdiction
Name                                   Securities Owned    of Incorporation
- ----                                   ----------------    ----------------
AMG Trading, L.L.C.                           100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Arrow Continental
 Europe, L.L.C.                               100%           Kentucky
Brown-Forman Australia Pty. Ltd.              100%           Australia
Brown-Forman Beverages North Asia, L.L.C.     100%           Delaware
B-F Korea, L.L.C.                             100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Beverages Japan, L.L.C.          100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Thailand, L.L.C.                 100%           Delaware
Canadian Mist Distillers, Limited             100%           Ontario, Canada
Chambord Liqueur Royale de France             100%           France
Early Times Distillers Company                100%           Delaware
Fetzer Vineyards                              100%           California
Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc.      100%           Kentucky
Heddon's Gate Investments, Inc.               100%           Delaware
Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc.                100%           Delaware
Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, Inc.                 100%           California
Southern Comfort Properties, Inc.             100%           California
Washington Investments, L.L.C.                100%           Kentucky
Woodford Reserve Stables, L.L.C.              100%           Kentucky
Longnorth Limited                             100% (1)(2)    Ireland
Clintock Limited                              100% (1)(3)    Ireland
Voldgade Holdings Ireland Limited             100% (2)       Ireland
Pitts Bay Trading Limited                      75% (3)       Bermuda
BFC Tequila Limited                           100% (3)       Ireland
Jack Daniel Distillery,
 Lem Motlow, Prop., Inc.                      100% (4)       Tennessee
Brown-Forman Korea Ltd.                       100% (5)       Korea
Brown-Forman Worldwide (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.   100% (6)       China
Brown-Forman Czech & Slovak
 Republics, s.r.o.                            100% (7)       Czech Republic
Brown-Forman Polska Sp. z o.o.                100% (7)       Poland
Brown-Forman Beverages Worldwide,
 Comercio de Bebidas Ltda.                    100% (8)       Brazil
Brown-Forman Holding Mexico S.A. de C.V.      100% (8)       Mexico
Brown-Forman Worldwide, L.L.C.                100% (8)       Delaware
Amercain Investments C.V.                     100% (9)       Netherlands
Finlandia Vodka Worldwide Ltd.                100% (10)      Finland
Distillerie Tuoni e Canepa Srl                100% (11)      Italy
Brown-Forman Beverages Europe, Ltd.           100% (12)      United Kingdom
Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S              100% (12)      Denmark
Brown-Forman Beverages Edinburgh              100% (13)      Scotland
Brown-Forman Tequila Mexico,
 S. de R.L. de C.V.                           100% (14)      Mexico
Cosesa-BF S.A., de C.V.                       100% (14)      Mexico
Valle de Amatitan, S.A. de C.V.               100% (14)      Mexico


The companies listed above constitute all active subsidiaries in which
Brown-Forman Corporation owns, either directly or indirectly, the majority of
the voting securities. No other active affiliated companies are controlled by
Brown-Forman Corporation.

 (1)  Includes qualifying shares assigned to Brown-Forman Corporation.
 (2)  Owned by Amercain Investments C.V.
 (3)  Owned by Longnorth Limited.
 (4)  Owned by Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc.
 (5)  Owned by B-F Korea, L.L.C.
 (6)  Owned by Brown-Forman Beverages North Asia, L.L.C.
 (7)  Owned by Brown-Forman Beverages Edinburgh.
 (8)  Owned 99% by Brown-Forman Corporation and 1% by Early Times Distillers
      Company.
 (9)  Owned 95% by Brown-Forman Corporation and 5% by Heddon's Gate
      Investments, Inc.
(10)  Owned by Brown-Forman Beverages Europe, Ltd.
(11)  Owned 55% by Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc. and 45% by
      Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S.
(12)  Owned by Voldgade Holdings Ireland Limited.
(13)  Owned 81.8% by Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S and 18.2% by Brown-Forman
      Beverages, Europe, Ltd.
(14)  Owned 99% by Brown-Forman Holding Mexico S.A. de C.V. and 1% by
      Early Times Distillers Company.




                                                                    Exhibit 23

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We  hereby  consent  to the  incorporation  by  reference  in  the  Registration
Statements  on Form S-3 (No.  333-140317,  33-12413,  and 33-52551) and Form S-8
(No.  333-08311,   333-38649,   333-74567,   333-77903,   333-88925,  333-89294,
333-126988, and 333-117630) of Brown-Forman Corporation of our report dated June
27, 2008 relating to the financial  statements and the effectiveness of internal
control over  financial  reporting,  which  appears in the 2008 Annual Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also
consent to the  incorporation  by  reference  of our report  dated June 27, 2008
relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
June 27, 2008




                                                                    Exhibit 31.1

       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Paul C. Varga, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brown-Forman Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
    the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
    registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report.

4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
    15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
        disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
        to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
        including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
        within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
        report is being prepared;

    b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
        internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
        supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
        of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
        external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles;

    c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

    d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
        over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
        recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the
        case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
        likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
        financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
    most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
        operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
        reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        control over financial reporting.


Date:   June 27, 2008                           By: /s/ Paul C. Varga
                                                Paul C. Varga
                                                Chief Executive Officer


                                                                    Exhibit 31.2

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Donald C. Berg, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brown-Forman Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
    the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
    registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report.

4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
    15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
        disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
        to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
        including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
        within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
        report is being prepared;

    b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
        internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
        supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
        of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
        external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles;

    c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

    d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
        over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
        recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the
        case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
        likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
        financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
    most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
        operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
        reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        control over financial reporting.


Date:   June 27, 2008                           By: /s/ Donald C. Berg
                                                Donald C. Berg
                                                Chief Financial Officer



                                                                    Exhibit 32

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Brown-Forman Corporation ("the Company")
on Form 10-K for the period ended April 30, 2008,  as filed with the  Securities
and  Exchange  Commission  on  the  date  hereof  (the  "Report"),  each  of the
undersigned  hereby  certifies,  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, in the capacity as an
officer of the Company, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
    respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.



Dated: June 27, 2008

                                           /s/ Paul C. Varga
                                           Paul C. Varga
                                           Chairman and
                                            Chief Executive Officer




                                           /s/ Donald C. Berg
                                           Donald C. Berg
                                           Executive Vice President and
                                            Chief Financial Officer


A signed  original of this  written  statement  required by Section 906 has been
provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

This  certificate is being  furnished  solely for purposes of Section 906 and is
not being filed as part of the Report.

