
10-K
form10k2007.txt


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2007
                        Commission file number 002-26821

                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                                   61-0143150
       (State or other jurisdiction of                        (IRS Employer
        incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

             850 Dixie Highway                                    40210
            Louisville, Kentucky                                (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (502) 585-1100

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of Each Exchange
              Title of Each Class                         on Which Registered
              -------------------                        ----------------------
Class A Common Stock (voting) $0.15 par value            New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock (nonvoting) $0.15 par value         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
  Section 12(g) of the Act:                              None


Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes [ ]  No [X]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X] No[ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.  See definition of "accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):
Large accelerated filer [X]   Accelerated filer [ ]   Non-accelerated filer [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes [ ]  No [X]

The aggregate market value, as of the last business day of the most recently
completed second fiscal quarter, of the voting and nonvoting equity held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $4,400,000,000.

The number of shares outstanding for each of the registrant's classes of
Common Stock on May 31, 2007 was:
     Class A Common Stock (voting)            56,870,147
     Class B Common Stock (nonvoting)         66,388,156

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated
by reference into Parts I, II, and IV of this report.  Portions of the Proxy
Statement of Registrant for use in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held July 26, 2007 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.



                                     PART I
Item 1.  Business

Brown-Forman Corporation ("we," "us," or "our" below) was incorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware in 1933,  successor to a business  founded in 1870
as  a  partnership  and  subsequently   incorporated   under  the  laws  of  the
Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901.

We primarily  manufacture,  bottle, import, export, and market a wide variety of
alcoholic  beverage  brands.  We also  manufacture  and  market new and used oak
barrels. Our principal beverage brands are:

     Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey               Fontana Candida Wines
     Southern Comfort                              Gala Rouge Wines
     Finlandia Vodka                               Herradura Tequila
     Gentleman Jack                                Jekel Vineyards
     Jack Daniel's Single Barrel                   Korbel California Champagnes*
     Jack Daniel's Ready-to-Drinks                 Little Black Dress Wines
     Amarula Cream Liqueur*                        Mariah Vineyards
     Appleton Estate Jamaica Rum*                  Maximus*
     Bel Arbor Wines                               Michel Picard Wines*
     Bolla Wines                                   New Mix
     Bonterra Vineyards                            Old Forester Bourbon
     Canadian Mist Blended Canadian Whisky         Pepe Lopez Tequilas
     Chambord Liqueur                              Sanctuary Wines
     Don Eduardo Tequila                           Sonoma-Cutrer Wines
     Durbanville Hills Wines*                      Tuaca Liqueur
     Early Times Kentucky Whisky                   Stellar Gin
     el Jimador Tequila                            Virgin Vines Wines*
     Eleven Tongues Wines                          Wakefield Wines*
     Fetzer Wines                                  Woodford Reserve Bourbon
     Five Rivers Wines

  *  Brands represented in the U.S. and/or other select markets by Brown-Forman


The  most  important  brand  in our  portfolio  is Jack  Daniel's,  which is the
fourth-largest  premium spirits brand and the largest selling  American  whiskey
brand in the world according to volume statistics  recently  published by Impact
Databank,  a leading trade  publication.  Our other leading  brands are Southern
Comfort,  the second-largest  selling liqueur in the United States, and Canadian
Mist, the  third-largest  selling Canadian whiskey  worldwide,  according to the
recently  published volume statistics  referenced above. Our largest wine brands
are Fetzer,  Korbel,  and Bolla,  generally selling in the $6-9 per bottle price
range.  We believe the  statistics  used to rank these  products are  reasonably
accurate.

Geographic  information  about net sales and long-lived  assets is in Note 13 of
the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on page 51 of our 2007 Annual
Report to Stockholders,  which  information is incorporated  into this report by
reference.



Our strategy is to market high quality  products that satisfy the preferences of
consumers of legal  drinking age and to support those  products  with  extensive
international,  national,  and regional marketing  programs.  These programs are
intended to extend consumer brand recognition and brand loyalty.

We own  numerous  valuable  trademarks  that  are  essential  to  our  business.
Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the
trademarks are in use. We have authorized,  through licensing arrangements,  the
use of some of our  trademarks on promotional  items for the primary  purpose of
enhancing brand awareness.

Customers

In the  United  States,  we sell  spirits  and wines  either  through  wholesale
distributors  or  directly to state  governments  in those  states that  control
alcohol  sales.  The contracts that we have with many of our  distributors  have
formulas that determine  reimbursement to distributors if we terminate them. The
amount  of  reimbursement  is based  primarily  on the  distributor's  length of
service and a percentage of its purchases  over time.  Some states have statutes
that limit our ability to terminate  distributor  contracts.  Outside the United
States,  we  typically  distribute  our  products  by  selecting  the best local
distributor for our brands in each specific market. Our principal export markets
are the United Kingdom, Australia, Poland, Germany, Mexico, South Africa, Spain,
France, Canada, and Japan.

Ingredients and Other Supplies

The principal  raw  materials  used in  manufacturing  and  packaging  distilled
spirits are corn, rye, malted barley, agave, sugar, glass, cartons, and wood for
new white oak  barrels,  which are used for  storage  of bourbon  and  Tennessee
whiskey.  Currently,  none of these raw materials is in short supply,  and there
are adequate sources from which they may be obtained.

Due to aging  requirements,  production  of whiskeys is scheduled to meet demand
three to six years in the future. Accordingly,  our inventories may be larger in
relation  to sales  and  total  assets  than  would  be  normal  for most  other
businesses.

The  principal  raw  materials  used in the  production  of  wines  are  grapes,
packaging  materials and wood for wine barrels.  Grapes are primarily  purchased
under contracts with  independent  growers and, from time to time, are adversely
affected by weather and other forces that may limit production.  We believe that
our relationships with our growers are good.

Competition

The wine and spirits industry is highly  competitive,  and there are many brands
sold in the consumer market. Trade information  indicates that we are one of the
largest wine and spirits suppliers in the United States in terms of revenues.



Regulatory Environment

The  Alcohol  and Tobacco  Tax and Trade  Bureau of the United  States  Treasury
Department  regulates the wine and spirits  industry with respect to production,
blending,  bottling, sales, advertising and transportation of industry products.
Also, each state regulates the advertising, promotion, transportation, sale, and
distribution of such products.

Under  federal  regulations,  whiskey  must be aged for at least two years to be
designated  "straight  whiskey." We age our  straight  whiskeys for a minimum of
three to six years.  Federal  regulations  also require that "Canadian"  whiskey
must be manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws and must be aged
in Canada for at least three years.  We believe we are in compliance  with these
regulations.

Employees

As of April 30, 2007, we employed about 4,440 persons,  including  approximately
390  employed  on a  part-time  or  temporary  basis.  We believe  our  employee
relations are good.

Available Information

You may  read  and copy any  materials  that we file  with the SEC at the  SEC's
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington,  D.C. 20549.  Information
on  the  Public   Reference   Room  may  be  obtained  by  calling  the  SEC  at
1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition,  the SEC  maintains an Internet site that contains
reports,  proxy and  information  statements,  and other  information  regarding
issuers that file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

Our  website  address  is  www.brown-forman.com.  Please  note that our  website
address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. Our annual reports on
Form 10-K,  quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any
amendments to these reports are available  free of charge on our website as soon
as reasonably  practicable after we  electronically  file those reports with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission.  The information provided on our website is
not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference,  unless
such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.

On our website, we have posted our Corporate Governance Guidelines,  our Code of
Conduct and Compliance Guidelines that apply to all directors and employees, and
our Code of  Ethics  that  applies  specifically  to our  senior  executive  and
financial officers. We have also posted on our website the charters of our Audit
and Compensation  Committees.  Copies of these materials are also available free
of charge by writing  to our  Assistant  Secretary,  Holli H.  Lewis,  850 Dixie
Highway, Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or e-mailing her at Holli_Lewis@b-f.com.



Item 1A.  Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect
our  business.  There are also other risks that are not  presently  known or not
presently  material,  as well as the other information set forth in this report,
which could affect materially our business. In addition, in our periodic filings
with the SEC,  press  releases and other  statements,  we discuss  estimates and
projections   regarding  our  future  performance  and  business  outlook.  Such
"forward-looking  statements," by their nature, involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors that in some cases are out of our control. These
factors could cause our actual results to differ  materially from our historical
experience  or our present  expectations  and  projections.  The  following is a
non-exclusive discussion of such risks and uncertainties.

OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE
UNITED STATES AND ABROAD.

Our business is subject to changes in global economic conditions. Just over half
of our business is in the United States,  and our business  prospects  generally
depend  heavily on the health of the U.S.  economy.  Earnings could be adversely
affected by lower consumer confidence,  decreased bar, hotel and travel spending
resulting from terrorist attacks and related  subsequent  events,  major natural
disasters,  widespread  outbreak of infectious diseases such as avian influenza,
other hostile acts, retaliation, or threats of any of these. Earnings could also
be hurt by the United States'  current war in Iraq, or if the United States goes
to war against another country deemed to be harboring  terrorists or otherwise a
threat to U.S. interests.

If  global  economic  conditions  deteriorate,  or if  there is an  increase  in
anti-American  sentiment  in the  principal  countries  to which we  export  our
beverage products,  including the United Kingdom,  Australia,  Poland,  Germany,
Mexico,  South  Africa,  Spain,  France,  Canada  and  Japan,  our  sales  could
materially decrease. The long-term outlook for our beverage business anticipates
continued  success  of  Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey,   Southern  Comfort,
Finlandia Vodka, and our other core wine and spirits brands.  This assumption is
based in part on  favorable  demographic  trends in the  United  States and many
international markets for the sale of wine and spirits. Current expectations for
our global beverage business may not be met if these  demographic  trends do not
translate into corresponding sales increases.

OUR  INTERNATIONAL  OPERATIONS  SUBJECT  US TO  RISKS  ASSOCIATED  WITH  FOREIGN
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES.

Sales of our brands and our  purchases  of goods and  services in  international
markets  are  conducted  in local  currency.  Thus,  profits  from our  overseas
business  could be adversely  affected if the U.S.  dollar  strengthens  against
other  currencies,  especially the British Pound,  Euro,  Australian  Dollar and
Mexican Peso,  because the local currency received from the sale of our products
would  translate  into  fewer  U.S.  dollars.  To the  extent  we are  unable to
effectively manage our exposure to such fluctuations,  our financial results may
suffer.

RISING ENERGY COSTS COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

If energy costs remain high,  our  transportation,  freight and other  operating
costs,  such as  distilling,  will likely  increase.  We may not be able to pass
along such cost increases to our customers through higher prices.  Additionally,
rising  energy  costs may  diminish  consumer  confidence  generally  or curtail
consumer spending on entertainment and discretionary products, thereby resulting
in decreased demand for our brands.



DEMAND FOR OUR  PRODUCTS  MAY BE  ADVERSELY  AFFECTED  BY  CHANGES  IN  CONSUMER
PREFERENCES AND TASTES.

We operate in a highly  competitive  marketplace.  Maintaining  our  competitive
position  depends on our continued  ability to offer products that have a strong
appeal to consumers. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors,
including  changes in demographic  and social trends,  and changes in dining and
beverage  consumption  patterns,  as they have from time to time in the past. In
addition,  sales of a brand  might  diminish  because  of a scare  over  product
contamination or some other negative publicity regarding the brand. If a product
recall becomes necessary, that also could adversely affect our business.

NATIONAL AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS OR UNDERTAKE INVESTIGATIONS
THAT COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS OR OUR  LIABILITIES,  OR THAT COULD LIMIT OUR WINE
AND SPIRITS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.

Our  operations  are  subject to  extensive  regulatory  requirements  regarding
advertising,   marketing,  labeling,   distribution  and  production.  Legal  or
regulatory   measures  against  beverage  alcohol  could  adversely  affect  our
business.  In particular,  governmental bodies in countries where we operate may
impose or increase  limitations on advertising  and promotional  activities,  or
adopt  other  non-tariff  measures  that  could  hurt our  sales.  In  addition,
particularly  in the United States,  state and federal  officials in some states
have  begun   investigating  trade  practices  of  beverage  alcohol  suppliers,
distributors  and  retailers.  Adverse  developments  in or as a result of these
regulatory measures and investigations or similar  investigations could hurt our
business.

TAX INCREASES COULD HURT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.

The wine and spirits business is highly sensitive to changes in taxes. Increases
in state or federal excise taxes in the U.S. could depress our domestic wine and
spirits business,  both through reducing overall  consumption and by encouraging
consumers  to  switch  to  lower-taxed   categories  of  beverage  alcohol.   No
legislation  to increase  U.S.  federal  excise  taxes on  distilled  spirits is
currently pending, but future increases are possible, as are taxes levied on the
broader business community.  Tax rates also affect the beverage alcohol business
outside the United States, but the effect of those changes in any one country is
less  likely  to be  significant  to our  overall  business.  Nevertheless,  the
cumulative  effect of such tax  increases  over time  could  hurt our  financial
performance.

IF THE SOCIAL  ACCEPTABILITY  OF OUR  PRODUCTS  DECLINES  OR  GOVERNMENTS  ADOPT
POLICIES AGAINST BEVERAGE ALCOHOL,  OUR REVENUES COULD DECREASE AND OUR BUSINESS
COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

Our ability to market and sell our alcohol beverage  products depends heavily on
both society's  attitudes  toward drinking and  governmental  policies that flow
from those  attitudes.  In recent  years,  there has been  increased  social and
political  attention  directed  at the  beverage  alcohol  industry.  The recent
attention  has  focused  largely on public  health  concerns  related to alcohol
abuse, including drunk driving,  underage drinking, and health consequences from
the misuse of beverage alcohol. Alcohol critics in the U.S. and Europe and other
countries  around the world  increasingly  seek  governmental  measures  to make
beverage alcohol more expensive, less available, and more difficult to advertise
and promote.  If the social  acceptability  of beverage  alcohol were to decline
significantly,  sales of our products could materially decrease. Our sales would
also suffer if governments sought to ban or restrict  advertising or promotional
activities,  to limit  hours or  places  of sale,  or took  other  actions  that
discourage alcohol consumption.



LITIGATION  RELATING TO ALCOHOL  ABUSE AND  ILLEGAL  ALCOHOL  CONSUMPTION  COULD
ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS.

A number of beverage alcohol producers have been sued over allegations  relating
to their advertising  practices. A law firm has filed nine class action lawsuits
against several spirits,  beer, and wine manufacturers,  including us. The suits
allege that our marketing causes illegal consumption of alcohol by persons under
the legal drinking age. To date, the first six courts to consider those lawsuits
have dismissed them and two cases have been  withdrawn  voluntarily.  Plaintiffs
have  appealed  the  six  involuntary  dismissals.  (One of the  dismissals  was
affirmed in June 2007.) We dispute the  allegations in these lawsuits and intend
to continue to defend these cases vigorously.  However,  adverse developments in
these or similar  lawsuits could  materially hurt our beverage  business and the
overall industry.

OUR WINE OR TEQUILA BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY PRODUCTION COSTS.

Our California-based  wine operations have entered into long-term contracts with
various   growers  and   wineries  to  supply   portions  of  our  future  grape
requirements.  Most of the contracts  call for prices to be determined  based on
market  conditions,  within a certain range, and most of the contracts also have
minimum  tonnage  requirements.   Although  these  contracts  may  provide  some
protection  in times of  rising  grape  prices,  the  contracts  may  result  in
above-market costs during times of declining prices.  Likewise, our Mexico-based
tequila  operations  have entered into  long-term  contracts with land owners in
regions  where blue agave can be grown.  Most of these  contracts  require us to
plant,  maintain,  and harvest the agave,  plus  compensate  the owners based on
specified  percentages of the crop at the prevailing market price at the time of
harvest.   Instability  in  agave  market  conditions  could  cause  us  to  pay
above-market costs for some of the agave we use to produce tequila. There can be
no assurances as to the future  prevailing  market prices for grapes or agave or
our ability, relative to our competitors, to take advantage of changes in market
prices.

CONSOLIDATION  AMONG OR POOR  PERFORMANCE  BY SPIRITS  PRODUCERS,  WHOLESALER OR
RETAILERS COULD HINDER THE MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS.

We use a number  of  different  business  models to market  and  distribute  our
products.  However,  we rely on other spirits producers to distribute and market
our products in some  international  markets.  In the United States, we sell our
products to wholesalers  through the mandatory  three-tier system.  Distributor,
wholesaler and retailer  consolidations have not in the past negatively affected
our business.  Nevertheless,  consolidation  among spirits producers overseas or
wholesalers in the United States could hinder the  distribution  of our products
as a result of reduced attention and resource  allocation to our brands,  due to
our brands  representing a smaller  portion of their business  and/or a changing
competitive environment.



OUR  ACQUISITION  STRATEGIES AND  INTEGRATION OF ACQUIRED  BUSINESSES MAY NOT BE
SUCCESSFUL.

From time to time,  we  acquire  additional  businesses  that we believe to be a
strategic  fit,  such as our recent  purchases of the Casa  Herradura  business,
Chambord  Liqueur and the  remainder  of Don  Eduardo.  Integration  of acquired
businesses  and personnel into our existing  operations,  and bringing them into
conformity with our trade practice standards,  financial control environment and
U.S. public company requirements,  may prove difficult,  may involve significant
expenses  and  management  time and  attention,  and may  otherwise  disrupt our
business.  Our ability to grow the volumes and  maintain or increase  the profit
margins on these brands,  especially in the U.S. or Mexico, will be important to
our future performance.  Additionally,  business  acquisitions such as these may
expose  us to  unknown  liabilities,  the  possible  loss of key  customers  and
employees  knowledgeable about the acquired business,  and risks associated with
doing business in countries or regions with less stable  governments,  political
climates, legal systems and/or economies, among other risks.

TERMINATION OF OUR RIGHTS TO DISTRIBUTE AND MARKET AGENCY BRANDS INCLUDED IN OUR
PORTFOLIO COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

In  addition  to the brands our  company  owns,  we also  market and  distribute
products on behalf of other brand owners in selected markets, including the U.S.
Our rights to sell these agency  brands are based on contracts  with the various
brand owners, which have varying lengths, renewal terms, termination rights, and
other  provisions.  We earn a margin for these sales and also gain  distribution
cost efficiencies in some instances. Therefore, the termination of our rights to
distribute  agency brands included in our portfolio  could adversely  affect our
business.

COUNTERFEIT  PRODUCTION OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD ADVERSELY  AFFECT OUR INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY RIGHTS, BRAND EQUITY AND OPERATING RESULTS.

The  beverage   alcohol   industry  is   experiencing   problems   with  product
counterfeiting and other forms of trademark infringement,  especially within the
Asian and Eastern European markets.  Given our dependence on brand  recognition,
we devote substantial resources on a worldwide basis to protect our intellectual
property  rights.  In  addition,  we have taken  steps to reduce the  ability of
others to  imitate  our  products.  Although  we believe  that our  intellectual
property  rights are legally  supported  in the markets in which we do business,
the protection afforded intellectual property rights varies greatly from country
to country.  Confusingly  similar,  lower quality or even dangerous  counterfeit
product could reach the market and adversely  affect our  intellectual  property
rights, brand equity and/or operating results.


Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments

None.



Item 2.  Properties

Significant properties are as follows:

Owned facilities:
   - Office facilities:
        - Corporate offices (including renovated historic structures)
          - Louisville, Kentucky

   - Production and warehousing facilities:
        - Lynchburg, Tennessee
        - Louisville, Kentucky
        - Collingwood, Ontario, Canada
        - Shively, Kentucky
        - Woodford County, Kentucky
        - Hopland, California
        - Paso Robles, California
        - Windsor, California
        - Livorno, Italy
        - Soave, Italy
        - Albany, Kentucky
        - Waverly, Tennessee
        - Blois, France
        - Amatitan, Mexico

Leased facilities:
   - Production and bottling facility in Dublin, Ireland
   - Warehousing facility in Mendocino County, California
   - Stave and heading mill in Jackson, Ohio

The lease terms expire at various dates and are generally renewable.

We believe that the facilities are in good condition and are adequate for our
business.



Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

Brown-Forman Corporation and many other manufacturers of spirits, wine, and beer
are defendants in a series of essentially  similar class action lawsuits seeking
damages and  injunctive  relief for  alleged  marketing  of beverage  alcohol to
underage  consumers.  Nine  lawsuits  have been filed to date,  the first  three
against  eight  defendants,  including  Brown-Forman:  "Hakki  v.  Adolph  Coors
Company,  et.al.,"  District of Columbia Superior Court No. CD 03-9183 (November
2003);  "Kreft v. Zima Beverage Co., et.al.," District Court,  Jefferson County,
Colorado,  No. 04cv1827  (December 2003); and "Wilson v. Zima Company,  et.al.,"
U.S.  District  Court for the  Western  District  of North  Carolina,  Charlotte
Division,  No.  3:04cv141 ( January 2004).  Two virtually  identical  suits with
allegations  similar  to  those  in the  first  three  lawsuits  were  filed  in
Cleveland,  Ohio, in April and June,  2004,  respectively,  against the original
eight  defendants as well as an  additional  nine  manufacturers  of spirits and
beer, and are now consolidated as "Eisenberg v.  Anheuser-Busch,"  U.S. District
Court for the District of Northern Ohio, No. 1:04cv1081. Five similar suits were
filed in 2005: "Elizabeth H. Sciocchette v. Advanced Brands," Albany County, New
York Supreme Court No. 102205 (February 16, 2005); "Roger and Kathy Bertovich v.
Advanced  Brands,"  Hancock  County,  West Virginia,  Circuit Court No. 05-C-42M
(February  17,  2005);  "Jacquelin  Tomberlin  v.  Adolph  Coors,"  Dane  County
(Madison,  Wisconsin)  Circuit  Court,  (February  23,  2005);  "Viola Alston v.
Advanced Brands," Wayne County, Michigan,  Circuit Court No. 05-509294,  (March,
30, 2005), and "Craig Konhauzer v. Adolph Coors Company," Broward County Florida
Circuit Court, No. 05004875 (March 30, 2005). In addition, Brown-Forman received
in February, 2004, a pre-lawsuit notice under the California Consumer Protection
Act indicating that the same lawyers intend to file a lawsuit there against many
industry defendants,  including  Brown-Forman,  presumably on the same facts and
legal theories.

The suits  allege  that the  defendants  have  engaged  in  deceptive  marketing
practices and schemes targeted at underage consumers, negligently marketed their
products to the underage, and fraudulently concealed their alleged misconduct.

Plaintiffs  seek class action  certification  on behalf of: (a) a guardian class
consisting  of all persons who were or are parents of children  whose funds were
used to purchase beverage alcohol marketed by the defendants which were consumed
without their prior  knowledge by their  children under the age of 21 during the
period 1982 to present;  and (b) an injunctive  class  consisting of the parents
and guardians of all children currently under the age of 21.

The lawsuits seek: (1) a finding that defendants  engaged in a deceptive  scheme
to market alcoholic beverages to underage persons and an injunction against such
alleged  practices;  (2)  disgorgement  and refund to the guardian  class of all
proceeds  resulting  from sales to the underage  since 1982; and (3) judgment to
each  guardian  class  member for a trebled  award of actual  damages,  punitive
damages, and attorneys fees. The lawsuits,  either collectively or individually,
if ultimately successful, represent significant financial exposure.

Brown-Forman,  in coordination  with other defendants,  is vigorously  defending
itself in these cases.  Brown-Forman and the other defendants have  successfully
obtained orders to dismiss six of the pending cases: Kreft (Colorado) in October
2005;  Eisenberg (Ohio) in February 2006;  Tomberlin  (Wisconsin) in March 2006;
Hakki (D.C.) in March 2006;  Alston  (Michigan) in May 2006; and Bertovich (West
Virginia)  in August  2006.  Konhauzer  (Florida)  and  Sciocchette  (New  York)
voluntarily  withdrew their respective suits. Wilson (North Carolina) is pending
decision on defendant's motion to dismiss. Each involuntarily dismissal is being
appealed by the respective  plaintiffs.  The Hakki dismissal was affirmed by the
D.C. Court of Appeals in June 2007.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.




Executive Officers of the Registrant


                                                Principal Occupation and
     Name                         Age             Business Experience
     ----                         ---       ---------------------------------

Owsley Brown II                    64       Chairman of the Board of the Company
                                            since 1995. Chief Executive Officer
                                            of the Company from 1993 to July
                                            2005.

Paul C. Varga                      43       President and Chief Executive
                                            Officer of the Company since August
                                            2005. President and Chief Executive
                                            Officer of Brown-Forman Beverages
                                            (a division of the Company) from
                                            August 2003 to August 2005. Global
                                            Chief Marketing Officer for
                                            Brown-Forman Beverages from 2000
                                            to August 2003.

Phoebe A. Wood                     54       Vice Chairman and Chief Financial
                                            Officer of the Company since March
                                            2007. Executive Vice President and
                                            Chief Financial Officer of the
                                            Company from 2001 to 2007.

Michael B. Crutcher                63       Vice Chairman, General Counsel, and
                                            Secretary since August 2003. Senior
                                            Vice President, General Counsel, and
                                            Secretary from 1989 to August 2003.

James S. Welch, Jr.                48       Vice Chairman, Strategy and Human
                                            Resources since August 2003. Senior
                                            Vice President and Executive
                                            Director of Human Resources from
                                            1999 to August 2003.

James L. Bareuther                 61       Executive Vice President and Chief
                                            Operating Officer of Brown-Forman
                                            since July 2006. Executive Vice
                                            President and Chief Operating
                                            Officer of Brown-Forman Beverages
                                            from August 2003 to July 2006.
                                            President of Brown-Forman Spirits
                                            Americas from 2001 to August 2003.

Mark I. McCallum                   52       Executive Vice President and Chief
                                            Brand Officer since May 2006.
                                            Senior Vice President and Chief
                                            Marketing Officer from July 2003 to
                                            May 2006.  Executive Vice President
                                            of Marketing for Darden Restaurants,
                                            Inc., from 2001 to 2003.

Jane C. Morreau                    48       Senior Vice President and Controller
                                            since December 2006. Vice President
                                            and Controller from August 2002 to
                                            December 2006. Director of Business
                                            Planning & Analysis from 1997 to
                                            August 2002.




                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
         and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our Class A and Class B Common  Stock is traded on the New York  Stock  Exchange
(symbols "BFA" and "BFB," respectively).

Holders of record of Common Stock at April 30, 2007:
         Class A Common Stock (Voting)               3,522
         Class B Common Stock (Nonvoting)            4,081

For the other  information  required by this item, refer to the section entitled
"Quarterly  Financial  Information"  at the front of the 2007  Annual  Report to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Selected  Financial Data" on page 25 of the 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders,
which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

For the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to the  section  entitled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 26 through 37 of the 2007 Annual
Report to  Stockholders,  and the section  entitled  "Important  Information  on
Forward-Looking   Statements"   on  page  56  of  the  2007  Annual   Report  to
Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices

Inflation  affects  the way we market  and price our  products  in many  markets
around the world.  In general,  and with respect to the most recent three fiscal
years,  we believe that we have been able to increase  prices to counteract  the
majority of the inflationary  effects on our net sales,  revenue and income from
continuing operations.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

For the information required by this item, refer to the section entitled "Market
Risks"  beginning on page 36 of the 2007 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

For the information  required by this item, refer to the Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  Reports of Management,
and Report of Independent  Registered Public Accounting Firm on pages 38 through
54 of the 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which information is incorporated
into this report by reference.



Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure

None.


Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures

The Chief Executive  Officer ("CEO") and the Chief Financial  Officer ("CFO") of
Brown-Forman  (its principal  executive and principal  financial  officers) have
evaluated  the   effectiveness  of  the  company's   "disclosure   controls  and
procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e)  under the Securities  Exchange Act of
1934 (the  "Exchange  Act")) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based  on  that  evaluation,  the  CEO  and CFO  concluded  that  the  company's
disclosure  controls and  procedures:  are effective to ensure that  information
required to be disclosed by the company in the reports  filed or submitted by it
under the Exchange Act is recorded,  processed,  summarized, and reported within
the time periods  specified in the SEC's rules and forms;  and include  controls
and procedures  designed to ensure that information  required to be disclosed by
the company in such reports is  accumulated  and  communicated  to the company's
management,  including  the CEO and the CFO,  as  appropriate,  to allow  timely
decisions  regarding  required  disclosure.  There  has  been no  change  in the
company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  during the most recent
fiscal  quarter  that  has  materially  affected,  or is  reasonably  likely  to
materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.

For the other information  required by this item, refer to "Management's  Report
on  Internal  Control  over  Financial  Reporting"  and  "Report of  Independent
Registered  Public Accounting Firm" on pages 53 and 54 of the 2007 Annual Report
to  Stockholders,   which  information  is  incorporated  into  this  report  by
reference.


Item 9B.  Other Information

None.


                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 26, 2007, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a) "Election of Directors" on pages 6 through 8 (for information on directors);
(b) "Corporate  Governance"  on page 9 (for  information on our Code of Ethics);
(c) "Section 16(a) Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance" on page 19 (for
information  on  delinquent  Section 16 filings);  and (d) "Audit  Committee" on
pages 20 through  22.  Also,  see the  information  with  respect to  "Executive
Officers of the Registrant"  under Part I of this report,  which  information is
incorporated herein by reference.

We will post any  amendments  to our Code of Ethics  that  applies  to our chief
executive  officer,  principal  financial  officer,   controller  and  principal
accounting  officer,  and any waivers  that are  required to be disclosed by the
rules of either the SEC or NYSE on our website.



We filed  during the fiscal  year ended  April 30, 2007 with the NYSE the Annual
CEO Certification  regarding the Company's  compliance with the NYSE's Corporate
Governance  listing  standards  as  required by Section  303A-12(a)  of the NYSE
Listed Company  Manual.  In addition,  the Company has filed as exhibits to this
annual report and to the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30,
2006, the applicable certifications of its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief
Financial Officer required under Section 302 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
regarding the quality of the company's public disclosures.


Item 11.  Executive Compensation

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 26, 2007, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a)  "Executive  Compensation"  on pages 23 through  48;  and (b)  "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" on page 51.


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
          Related Stockholder Matters

                      Equity Compensation Plan Information

In July 2004,  shareholders  approved the 2004 Omnibus  Compensation Plan as the
successor to both the 1994 Omnibus  Compensation Plan providing equity awards to
employees and the Non-Employee Directors ("NED") Plan providing equity awards to
non-employee  directors.  At the time the NED Plan was discontinued,  it had not
been submitted to  shareholders.  The following  table  provides  information on
these plans as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year:





For the other  information  required by this item, refer to the section entitled
"Stock  Ownership" on pages 15 through 19 of our definitive  proxy statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 26, 2007,  which  information
is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
          Independence

For the information  required by this item,  refer to the following  sections of
our definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
July 26, 2007, which  information is incorporated into this report by reference:
(a) "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" on pages 50 through 51; and
(b) "Corporate Governance" on pages 9 through 14.

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

For the information  required by this item, refer to the sections entitled "Fees
Paid to  Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm" and "Policy on Audit
Committee   Pre-Approval  of  Audit  and  Permissible   Non-Audit   Services  of
Independent  Registered  Public  Accounting  Firm" on pages 21 through 22 of our
definitive  proxy  statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders  to be held
July 27, 2006, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.



                                     PART IV

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)  1 and 2 - Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule:



All other  schedules for which  provision is made in the  applicable  accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange  Commission  have been omitted either
because  they are not  required  under the  related  instructions,  because  the
information  required is included in the consolidated  financial  statements and
notes thereto, or because they are inapplicable.

*  Incorporated by reference to Item 8 in this report.



(a)    3 - Exhibits: Filed with this report:

Exhibit Index
- -------------

    10(m)    First Amendment to the Brown-Forman Omnibus Compensation Plan
             Restricted Stock Agreement.**

    10(n)    Second Amendment to the Brown-Forman 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan
             Restricted Stock Agreement.**

     13      Brown-Forman Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
             year ended April 30, 2007, but only to the extent set forth in
             Items 1, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the year ended April 30, 2007.

     21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23      Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered
             public accounting firm.

     31.1    CEO Certification pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
             2002.

     31.2    CFO Certification pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
             2002.

     32      CEO and CFO Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
             adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
             (not considered to be filed).

Previously Filed:
 Exhibit Index
- -------------

    2(a)     Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2006, among Chatham
             International Incorporated, Charles Jacquin et Cie., Inc., the
             Selling Stockholders and Brown-Forman Corporation, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on June 29, 2006.

    2(b)     Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 25, 2006, among Jose
             Guillermo Romo de la Pena, Luis Pedro Pablo Romo de la Pena, Grupo
             Industrial Herradura, S.A. de C.V., certain of their respective
             affiliates, Brown-Forman Corporation and Brown-Forman Tequila
             Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., a subsidiary of Brown-Forman
             Corporation, as amended, which is incorporated into this report by
             reference to Brown-Forman Corporation's Forms 8-K filed on
             August 29, 2006, December 22, 2006, January 16, 2007, and
             January 22, 2007.

    3(i)     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of registrant, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-Q filed on March 4, 2004.

    3(ii)    By-laws of Registrant, as amended on May 26, 2005, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2005.

      4      Form of Indenture dated as of March 1, 1994 between Brown-Forman
             Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as Trustee,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form S-3 (Registration  No. 33-52551) filed on
             March 8, 1994.



    10(a)    Brown-Forman Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 23, 1990.**

    10(b)    A description of the Brown-Forman Savings Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to page 10 of
             Brown-Forman's definitive proxy statement filed on June 27, 1996
             in connection with its 1996 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.**

    10(c)    The description of the terms of $250,000,000 of 2-1/8% Notes due
             2006 and $350,000,000 of 3% Notes due 2008, which description is
             incorporated by reference into this report by reference to the
             Indenture filed with Brown-Forman Corporation's Form S-4
             (Registration No. 333-104657) on April 21, 2003.

    10(d)    Brown-Forman Corporation 2004 Omnibus Compensation Plan, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman's
             definitive proxy statement filed on June 30, 2004 in connection
             with its 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

    10(e)    Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of April 30, 2007 by and among
             Brown-Forman Corporation, Brown-Forman Beverages, Europe, LTD,
             certain borrowing subsidiaries and certain lender parties thereto,
             Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent and as a Lender,
             Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank Plc, National City Bank
             and Wachovia Bank, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents
             and as Lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent
             and as a Lender and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as London Agent.,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on May 2, 2007.

    10(f)    Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, as amended, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporations's Form 10-K filed on June 30, 2005.**

    10(g)    Form of Employee Stock Appreciation Right Award, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006.**

    10(h)    Form of Employee Non-Qualified Stock Option Award, which is
             incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006.**

    10(i)    Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Appreciation Right Award, which
             is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006.**

    10(j)    Form of Non-Employee Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Award,
             which is incorporated into this report by reference to Brown-Forman
             Corporation's Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006.**

    10(k)    Summary of Director and Named Executive Officer Compensation, which
             description is incorporated into this report by reference to
             Brown-Forman Corporation's Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006.**

    10(l)    The description of the terms of $150,000,000 of Floating Rate Notes
             due 2010 and $250,000,000 of 5.2% Notes due 2012, which description
             is incorporated into this report by reference to the Indenture,
             the Officer's Certificate pursuant thereto and the 2010 and 2012
             global notes filed as exhibits to Brown-Forman Corporation's
             Form 8-K filed on April 3, 2007.



    14       Code of Ethics, which is incorporated into this report by reference
             to Brown-Forman Corporation's Form 10-K filed on July 2, 2004.

** Indicates management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                            BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
                                                 (Registrant)



                                            /s/ Paul C. Vargs
Date:  June 28, 2007                        By: Paul C. Varga
                                                Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities on June 28, 2007 as indicated:


/s/ Barry D. Bramley
By: Barry D. Bramley
    Director


/s/ Geo. Garvin Brown IV
By: Geo. Garvin Brown IV
    Director


/s/ Martin S. Brown, Jr.
By: Martin S. Brown, Jr.
    Director


/s/ Owsley Brown II
By: Owsley Brown II
    Director, Chairman of the Board


/s/ Donald G. Calder
By: Donald G. Calder
    Director


/s/ Sandra A. Frazier
By: Sandra A. Frazier
    Director


/s/ William E. Mitchell
By: William E. Mitchell
    Director


/s/ Jane C. Morreau
By: Jane C. Morreau
    Senior Vice President
    and Controller
    (Principal Accounting Officer)


/s/ Matthew R. Simmons
By: Matthew R. Simmons
    Director


/s/ William M. Street
By: William M. Street
    Director, Former President,
    Brown-Forman Corporation


/s/ Dace Brown Stubbs
By: Dace Brown Stubbs
    Director


/s/ Paul C. Varga
By: Director, President and
    Chief Executive Officer


/s/ James S. Welch, Jr.
By: James S. Welch, Jr.
    Director


/s/ Phoebe A. Wood
By: Phoebe A. Wood
    Vice Chairman and
    Chief Financial Officer
    (Principal Financial Officer)




             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


To the Board of Directors
of Brown-Forman Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements,  of management's assessment
of the  effectiveness  of internal  control over financial  reporting and of the
effectiveness  of internal control over financial  reporting  referred to in our
report dated June 28, 2007  appearing in the 2007 Annual Report to  Stockholders
of Brown-Forman Corporation (which report, consolidated financial statements and
assessment  are  incorporated  by reference in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K)
also  included  an audit of the  financial  statement  schedule  listed  in Item
15(a)(1) and (2) of this Form 10-K.  In our opinion,  this  financial  statement
schedule  presents fairly, in all material  respects,  the information set forth
therein  when  read in  conjunction  with  the  related  consolidated  financial
statements.




/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
June 28, 2007

                                      S-1



                    BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
               For the Years Ended April 30, 2005, 2006, and 2007
                            (Expressed in thousands)



 (1) Amount recorded as part of the Casa Herradura acquisition.
 (2) Doubtful accounts written off, net of recoveries.

                                      S-2


                                                                   Exhibit 10(m)

                       FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE BROWN-FORMAN
                            OMNIBUS COMPENSATION PLAN
                           RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT

     WHEREAS,   Brown-Forman   Corporation   (the   "Company")   maintains   the
Brown-Forman Omnibus  Compensation Plan (the "Plan"),  effective May 1, 1994 (as
amended July 24, 1995, June 15, 1999 and September 23, 1999); and

     WHEREAS,  the  Plan  permits  the  Company  to  issue  restricted  stock to
Participants pursuant to the Plan if certain performance based goals are reached
during a predetermined performance period; and

     WHEREAS,  the Company and (insert name) (the "Participant")  entered into a
Restricted Stock Agreement (the "Agreement"), effective July 24, 2003; and

     WHEREAS,  Section 10(B) of the Agreement provides that the Agreement may be
amended with the Company's and the Participant's written consent; and

     WHEREAS,   Section  3  of  the   Agreement   currently   provides  for  the
discretionary  vesting of the restricted  stock underlying this Agreement in the
event of the  Participant's  retirement,  death or involuntary  termination  for
reasons other than discharge for Cause; and

     WHEREAS,  the Company and the Participant  desire to amend Section 3 of the
Agreement to require  mandatory vesting (on a pro-rated basis) of the restricted
stock  underlying this Agreement in the event of an involuntary  termination for
reasons other than discharge for Cause.

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  the Company and the  Participant  hereby consent to amend
Section 3 of the Agreement to provide as follows:

     3. Termination of Employment.  In the event the Participant does not remain
     continuously employed by the Company until the Restriction Ending Date, the
     following rules will apply:

     Participants  terminating  voluntarily and  Participants who are discharged
     for Cause will forfeit all Restricted Stock.

     In the event of retirement or death,  the Participant  may be entitled,  at
     the discretion of the Plan Administrator, to receive a pro-rated portion of
     each  Restricted  Stock Award,  with the  Restricted  Stock  released  from
     restrictions  at a time  determined  by the Plan  Administrator,  but in no
     circumstances later than described in Section 2 above.

     In the event of  involuntary  termination  for reasons other than discharge
     for Cause, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a pro-rated portion
     of  each  Restricted  Stock  Award,  with  the  pro-rated  portion  of  the
     Restricted Stock released from  restrictions at the time of the involuntary
     termination.  The  pro-rated  portion  shall  be  determined  based  on the
     following formula:

                  The number of whole or partial months elapsed
                   at the time of the involuntary termination
                                   divided by
                 The number of months required for full vesting

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  Brown-Forman Corporation and (insert name) have caused
this First Amendment to the Brown-Forman  Omnibus  Compensation  Plan Restricted
Stock Agreement to be executed this _____ day of _______________________, 2007.

Consented to and accepted by:

Brown-Forman Corporation


By:____________________
Bruce S. Cote
Vice President,
Director HR Employee Services


Consented to and accepted by:

_______________________
Participant


                                                                   Exhibit 10(n)

                      SECOND AMENDMENT TO THE BROWN-FORMAN
                         2004 OMNIBUS COMPENSATION PLAN
                           RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT

     WHEREAS,   Brown-Forman   Corporation   (the   "Company")   maintains   the
Brown-Forman  2004 Omnibus  Compensation  Plan (the "Plan"),  effective July 22,
2004; and

     WHEREAS,  the  Plan  permits  the  Company  to  issue  restricted  stock to
Participants pursuant to the Plan if certain performance based goals are reached
during a predetermined performance period; and

     WHEREAS,  the Company and (insert  name) (the  "Participant")  entered into
Restricted Stock Agreement(s) (the "Agreement(s)"), effective __________________
___, 200_, ___________ __, 200_, _______________ __, 200_, and _________________
__, 200_; and

     WHEREAS,  Section 10(B) of the Agreement provides that the Agreement may be
amended with the Company's and the Participant's written consent; and

     WHEREAS,   Section  3  of  the   Agreement   currently   provides  for  the
discretionary  vesting of the restricted  stock underlying this Agreement in the
event of the  Participant's  retirement,  death or involuntary  termination  for
reasons other than discharge for Cause; and

     WHEREAS,  the Company and the Participant  desire to amend Section 3 of the
Agreement to require  mandatory vesting (on a pro-rated basis) of the restricted
stock  underlying this Agreement in the event of an involuntary  termination for
reasons other than discharge for Cause.

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  the Company and the  Participant  hereby consent to amend
Section 3 of the Agreement to provide as follows:

     3. Termination of Employment.  In the event the Participant does not remain
     continuously employed by the Company until the Restriction Ending Date, the
     following rules will apply:

     Participants  terminating  voluntarily and  Participants who are discharged
     for Cause will forfeit all Restricted Stock.

     In the event of retirement or death,  the Participant  may be entitled,  at
     the discretion of the Plan Administrator, to receive a pro-rated portion of
     each  Restricted  Stock Award,  with the  Restricted  Stock  released  from
     restrictions  at a time  determined  by the Plan  Administrator,  but in no
     circumstances later than described in Section 2 above.

     In the event of  involuntary  termination  for reasons other than discharge
     for Cause, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a pro-rated portion
     of  each  Restricted  Stock  Award,  with  the  pro-rated  portion  of  the
     Restricted Stock released from  restrictions at the time of the involuntary
     termination.  The  pro-rated  portion  shall  be  determined  based  on the
     following formula:

                  The number of whole or partial months elapsed
                   at the time of the involuntary termination
                                   divided by
                 The number of months required for full vesting

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  Brown-Forman Corporation and (insert name) have caused
this  Second  Amendment  to the  Brown-Forman  2004  Omnibus  Compensation  Plan
Restricted    Stock    Agreement   to   be   executed    this   _____   day   of
_______________________, 2007.

Consented to and accepted by:

Brown-Forman Corporation


By:____________________
Bruce S. Cote
Vice President,
Director HR Employee Services


Consented to and accepted by:

________________________
Participant



                                                                   Exhibit 13



                              FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
          (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts and ratios)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                              2006        2007     % Change
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Net Sales                                        $2,412      $2,806       16%
Gross Profit                                     $1,308      $1,481       13%
Operating Income                                 $  563      $  602        7%
Income from Continuing Operations                $  395      $  400        1%
Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations
 - Basic                                         $ 3.24      $ 3.26        1%
 - Diluted                                       $ 3.20      $ 3.22        1%
Return on Average Invested Capital                 21.9%       17.4%
Gross Margin                                       54.2%       52.8%
Operating Margin                                   23.3%       21.5%



                         QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
               (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts)

Note: Quarterly amounts may not add to amounts for the year due to rounding.



                             SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
          (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts and ratios)
                              Year Ended April 30,


Notes:
1.  Includes the consolidated results of Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, Finlandia
    Vodka Worldwide, Tuoni e Canepa, Swift & Moore, Chambord, and Casa Herradura
    since their acquisitions in April 1999, December 2002, February 2003,
    February 2006, May 2006, and January 2007, respectively.
2.  Weighted average shares, earnings per share, and cash dividends declared
    per common share have been adjusted for a 2-for-1 common stock split in
    January 2004.
3.  We define Return on Average Invested Capital as the sum of net income
    (excluding extraordinary items) and after-tax interest expense, divided by
    average invested capital.  Invested capital equals assets less liabilities,
    excluding interest-bearing debt.
4.  We define Return on Average Stockholders' Equity as net income applicable
    to common stock divided by average stockholders' equity.
5.  We define Total Debt to Total Capital as total debt divided by the sum of
    total debt and stockholders' equity.
6.  We define Dividend Payout Ratio as cash dividends divided by net income.



                      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

In  the  discussion  below,  we  review  Brown-Forman's  consolidated  financial
condition and results of  operations  for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2005,
2006, and 2007. We also make statements  relating to our  anticipated  financial
performance  and other  forward-looking  statements and discuss factors that may
affect our future financial  condition and performance.  We have prepared a list
of some risk factors that could cause actual results to differ  materially  from
our anticipated results.  Please read this Management's  Discussion and Analysis
section in conjunction with our consolidated  financial  statements for the year
ended  April 30,  2007,  their  related  notes,  and the  important  information
regarding forward-looking statements on page 56.

As discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying financial statements,  we sold Lenox,
Inc.  during fiscal 2006, and sold Brooks & Bentley and Hartmann in fiscal 2007.
As  a  result,  we  have  reported  them  as  discontinued   operations  in  the
accompanying financial statements.

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Brown-Forman  Corporation is a diversified producer and marketer of fine-quality
consumer  beverage  products,  including Jack Daniel's and its family of brands,
Southern Comfort,  Finlandia,  Tequila Herradura,  el Jimador Tequila,  Canadian
Mist, Fetzer,  Bolla, and Sonoma-Cutrer  wines, and Korbel Champagne.  We market
and sell various  categories of beverage  alcohol  products,  such as Tennessee,
Canadian,  and Kentucky whiskies;  Kentucky bourbon;  California sparkling wine;
tequila; table wine; liqueurs; vodka; rum; gin; and ready-to-drink products.

Our Markets

Our brands are sold around the world in over 135 countries. Our largest and most
important  market  is the  U.S.,  where  53% of our net  sales  from  continuing
operations were generated in fiscal 2007,  compared to 58% in fiscal 2006. Sales
in the U.S. grew 7% when compared to fiscal 2006, while our sales outside of the
U.S. grew 30%. Europe, our  second-largest  region in terms of net sales, grew a
healthy 15% in fiscal 2007,  influenced in part by a weaker U.S.  dollar and the
full-year  effect of a  structural  change in our  distribution  arrangement  in
Germany,  where we are now  responsible  for paying and remitting  excise taxes.
Europe  represented 29% of total net sales from continuing  operations in fiscal
2007, unchanged from fiscal 2006. Growth from the rest of the world accelerated,
improving  65% in fiscal 2007,  and now  constitutes  18% of our total net sales
from continuing operations,  up from 11% of total net sales just two short years
ago. The double-digit  increase in net sales and the significant increase in the
percentage  contribution  to total sales  compared to fiscal 2005  includes  the
effect of structural  changes in our distribution  model in Australia,  where we
are now responsible for paying and remitting  excise taxes,  and the incremental
net sales  associated  with the  acquisition of Casa Herradura  primarily in the
Mexican market.

International  expansion  continued  to  provide a  significant  portion  of our
growth,  as it has over the past decade.  In fact,  markets  outside of the U.S.
contributed  more than 75% of growth in net sales in fiscal 2007 and constituted
approximately 47% of our total reported net sales for the year.

The principal  international markets for our brands include the U.K., Australia,
Poland,  Germany,  Mexico, South Africa, Spain, France, Canada, and Japan. As we
continue  to expand  outside of the U.S.,  foreign  exchange  rate  fluctuations
increasingly  affect our  financial  results - in terms of both sales from goods
sold in local  currencies and the cost of goods and services  purchased in local
currencies.  On a net basis,  we sell more in local  currency  than we buy, thus
exposing our financial  results to the negative impact of a  strengthening  U.S.
dollar.  To help protect against this, we regularly  hedge our foreign  currency
exposure.  But over the  long  term,  reported  profits  from our  international
business may be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens  against other
currencies.

                             Net Sales by Geography
                                 (in millions)

                              2005          2006          2007
                              ----          ----          ----
United States               $1,316        $1,404        $1,498
Europe                         637           709           816
Rest of World                  242           299           492
                            ------        ------        ------
Total                       $2,195        $2,412        $2,806
                            ======        ======        ======


Consumer demand for both premium and super-premium  brands in the U.S. continued
to expand  this past year,  but at a slightly  lower  growth rate than in fiscal
2006.   Positive   demographic   trends,  the  continued  consumer  interest  in
spirits-based  cocktails,  and  consumers'  desire  to trade up to more  premium
offerings helped to maintain the positive environment for premium spirits in the
U.S. We anticipate that this encouraging  environment will continue in the U.S.,
but  consumer   preferences  can  change  very  quickly  and  could  affect  our
performance if we are not prepared to respond  quickly to changing  industry and
competitive dynamics.

Our Brands

In fiscal 2007,  we entered into  numerous  transactions,  including  those that
allow us to focus on better  opportunities in our beverage business,  and others
that changed our brand  portfolio.  Following the sale of Lenox,  Inc. in fiscal
2006, during fiscal 2007 we sold the remaining businesses in our former consumer
durables  segment,  Hartmann  luggage  and  Brooks &  Bentley,  which  have been
classified as discontinued operations in this annual report.

Meanwhile,  we  strengthened  our brand  offerings with the purchase of Chambord
liqueur and the Casa Herradura brands (including el Jimador, Herradura, New Mix,
Antiguo,  and Suave 35). These brand  additions to our portfolio  participate in
the premium or super-premium  categories,  in high priority  markets,  and offer
attractive  gross  profit per case.  We  anticipate  each of these  brands  will
provide  long-term  earnings  growth rates at or above our  historical  average,
strengthening our margins and growth profile.




Our brand portfolio reached a milestone in fiscal 2007, with depletions (defined
on the next page)  surpassing  30  million  nine-liter  cases.  We also had nine
brands with depletions exceeding 1 million nine-liter cases.

We analyze  our  beverage  portfolio  in numerous  ways.  One way  includes  the
following   three   categories:   premium  global   brands,   which  have  broad
international  distribution  and are sold at premium  price  points;  mid-priced
regional  brands,  which  are  important  category  leaders  whose  volumes  are
concentrated in fewer markets;  and super-premium  developing brands,  which are
smaller, higher-margin brands with significant growth opportunities.

Net Sales by Category:
   Premium Global             71%
   Mid-Priced Regional        23%
   Super-Premium Developing    6%

Our premium global brands,  which include Jack Daniel's,  Southern Comfort,  and
Finlandia and their brand  families,  represented 71% of our net sales in fiscal
2007, with net sales growing at double-digit rates. We expect our premium global
brands to continue to contribute significantly to our future performance.

Jack Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey  remains the most  important  brand within our
portfolio and is one of the largest and most  profitable  spirits  brands in the
world.  Global  depletions  for  Jack  Daniel's  increased  6% in  fiscal  2007,
surpassing the 9 million nine-liter case mark, and growing in the U.S. and in 23
of its 25 largest international markets. Volumes of Jack Daniel's outside of the
U.S.  experienced  double-digit growth in fiscal 2007,  surpassing the 4 million
case mark;  non-U.S.  volumes now  represent  slightly  over half of the brand's
total net dollar sales. In the U.S.,  where  approximately  52% of Jack Daniel's
nine-liter case volumes are sold, depletions grew 3%.

The positive  environment for premium  spirits,  increased levels of advertising
and  promotional  support,  and the brand's  overall  marketplace  strength have
combined  to provide  solid  growth in volumes and  double-digit  gains in gross
profit on a global  basis.  A significant  percentage of our total  earnings are
derived  from Jack  Daniel's,  and the  brand's  growth is vital to our  overall
marketplace strength. Accordingly, it will remain our major overall focus. While
a significant  decline in volume or selling price for the brand could materially
depress our overall earnings,  we are encouraged by the accelerating  geographic
diversification of the brand's profits, which intensified in fiscal 2007.

Southern  Comfort,  our second most important brand,  delivered solid volume and
profit growth in fiscal 2007. The brand's global  depletions  grew 3%, fueled by
growth in its largest market, the U.S. Finlandia's volume grew an impressive 15%
led by strong growth in Poland,  the brand's biggest market. In contrast to Jack
Daniel's and Southern Comfort,  nearly 85% of this brand's 2.4 million cases are
sold outside of the U.S., including over 600,000 cases in Poland. We expect both
Southern  Comfort and  Finlandia to  contribute  significantly  to our long-term
growth.

Our  mid-priced  regional  brands  had mixed  results  during  fiscal  2007,  as
depletions  expanded  for  Fetzer  Valley  Oaks and  Bonterra  wines and  Korbel
Champagnes,  but contracted for Bolla, Canadian Mist, and Early Times. Together,
our foundation  brands represent 23% of our total net sales and remain important
contributors  to our  earnings and cash flow.  These  large,  off-premise-driven
category   leaders   compete   in   extremely   price-competitive    categories.
Consequently,  we have  only  moderate  growth  expectations  for  most of these
brands.

Our  super-premium  developing  brands,  representing  6% of net sales in fiscal
2007,  comprise the category that we believe has  significant  worldwide  growth
opportunities.  Overall net sales improved at a double-digit  rate for the year,
due in part to our  acquisitions of Chambord and Casa Herradura and solid growth
from Woodford Reserve bourbon and  Sonoma-Cutrer  wines. We remain encouraged by
the growth  prospects  for these brands and believe  they have the  potential to
contribute  meaningfully  to our earnings in the years ahead,  especially  as we
integrate Casa Herradura fully into our brand portfolio.

In the  short  term,  we expect  this  integration  to  moderately  depress  our
earnings,  however. In fiscal 2008, we estimate a $0.13 to $0.18 dilutive effect
on earnings per share.  We will also be bringing Casa Herradura into  conformity
with our trade practice standards, financial control environment and U.S. public
company requirements.  Greater than anticipated changes needed on one or more of
these fronts could detract from our current anticipated fiscal 2008 performance.
Longer term, our ability to grow the volumes and maintain or increase the profit
margins  on the  Herradura  and el Jimador  brands,  especially  in the U.S.  or
Mexico, will be important to our future performance.

Our  acquisition  of Casa  Herradura in January 2007 expanded our  super-premium
developing  portfolio,  and we believe provides us with several meaningful brand
contributors to our earnings growth potential in the future.

Our Route-to-Consumer Strategy

Introduced  four years ago, the  Brown-Forman  Arrow  captures  our  overarching
objective to "Be the Best Brand Builder in the  Industry,  Period!" and the five
supporting  imperatives  that reach that goal. All of our  strategies  flow from
this overarching objective.

A critical supporting component of our brand-building strategy is a multifaceted
program  designed to ensure that  consumers  can find our products  whenever and
wherever they have an  opportunity to choose a premium  beverage  alcohol brand.
This program employs a variety of  distribution  models around the world and our
preference for a particular arrangement or partnership depends on our assessment
of a  market's  long-term  competitive  dynamics  and our  portfolio's  stage of
development  in that market.  In several  markets  around the world,  we own and
operate our own  distribution  network,  including  Australia,  China, the Czech
Republic,  Korea,  Mexico,  Poland,  and Thailand.  In those markets we sell our
beverage alcohol products directly to retail stores and to wholesalers.  In many
other  markets,  including  the U.S.,  we use third  parties to  distribute  our
portfolio of brands.



We continued to see the  distribution  environment  change in the U.S. this past
year  with a number  of  distributor  consolidations.  We have  been  evaluating
options that might lead to new  arrangements  or  partnerships  in the important
U.S.  market.  During fiscal 2007, we renewed our  cost-sharing  agreement  with
Bacardi in the U.K.,  the largest  market for our brands  outside the U.S.,  and
changed  distributors in several other markets.  In January 2007, as part of the
Casa Herradura acquisition, we acquired a distribution network in Mexico.

Our Competition

Our brands operate in a highly competitive  industry, as we compete against many
global,  regional,  and local brands in several  categories  and price points of
beverage  alcohol.  Trade  information  indicates that we are one of the largest
wine and spirits suppliers in the U.S. in terms of revenues.

Our Earnings Outlook

We are optimistic  about our earnings outlook for fiscal 2008 due to the current
momentum of our brands,  the continued  favorable global environment for premium
spirits,  the exciting  opportunities to expand our recent brand additions,  and
the  numerous  possibilities  we believe we have to continue  building  our fine
portfolio of brands around the world.

Fiscal 2007 earnings from continuing operations were $3.22 per diluted share. We
currently expect fiscal 2008 earnings from continuing  operations to be $3.35 to
$3.55 per diluted share, which represents growth of 7% to 13% compared to fiscal
2007 earnings from continuing operations, excluding the $0.08 per share net gain
on the sale of winery  assets.  This  outlook  includes our  estimated  earnings
dilution  of  $0.13 to  $0.18  per  share  associated  with  the Casa  Herradura
acquisition, two-thirds of which we expect to be transition-related costs. These
estimated  costs include  integration and compliance  expenditures  and non-cash
charges  associated with the purchase of  distribution  rights for the Herradura
brand in the U.S.

The low end of our earnings  outlook noted above  approximates our projection of
the average  operating income growth of our  competitors,  while the high end of
the range is modestly higher than our most recent three year average  underlying
growth in earnings.  Our full-year earnings outlook for fiscal 2008 is moderated
by the  potential  incremental  dilution  over fiscal 2007  attributable  to the
acquisition  of Casa  Herradura,  a higher  effective tax rate,  an  anticipated
increase in raw  material  costs,  and the absence of an  approximate  $0.06 per
share benefit from interest earned in fiscal 2007 on proceeds  invested from the
sale of Lenox Inc., the latter of which we distributed  to  shareholders  on May
10, 2007.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our total company  diluted  earnings per share were $3.14 in fiscal 2007,  which
consisted of $3.222 per diluted share from  continuing  operations  and a $0.086
loss from discontinued operations.  The following discussion of our results from
continuing  operations  excludes  the  results  related to the  former  Consumer
Durables  segment,  which have been segregated  from  continuing  operations and
reflected  as   discontinued   operations   for  all  periods   presented.   See
"Discontinued Operations" on page 34.

CONTINUING OPERATIONS

Continuing  operations consist of our beverage  business,  which includes strong
brands representing a wide range of varietal wines, champagnes, and spirits such
as whiskey,  bourbon,  vodka,  tequila, rum, and liqueur. The largest market for
our brands is the U.S., which generally prohibits wine and spirits manufacturers
from selling their products directly to consumers. Instead, we sell our products
to wholesale distributors,  who then sell the products to retailers, who in turn
sell to consumers.  We use a similar tiered  distribution  model in many markets
outside  the U.S.,  but we  distribute  our own  products  in  several  markets,
including  Australia,  China, the Czech Republic,  Korea,  Mexico,  Poland,  and
Thailand.

Distributors  and  retailers  normally  keep  some  of our  products  on hand as
inventory,  making  it  possible  for  retailers  to sell  more (or less) of our
products  to  consumers  than  distributors  buy from us during  any given  time
period.  Because we  generally  record  revenues  when we ship our  products  to
distributors, our sales do not necessarily reflect actual consumer demand during
any particular  period.  Ultimately,  of course,  consumer demand is critical in
determining our financial results.  Depletions,  which are defined as nine-liter
case  shipments  from  distributors  to  retailers,  are  generally  used in the
beverage alcohol industry as the most  representative  approximation of consumer
demand.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006

Net sales  surpassed  $2.8  billion  in  fiscal  2007,  replacing  the net sales
provided by Lenox Inc.  (which we sold in fiscal  2006) with what we believe are
much  higher-quality  sales with far better growth potential.  The major factors
driving the $394 million, or 16%, increase in net sales were:

                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2006
Distribution changes                            4%
Foreign exchange                                3%
Acquisitions                                    3%
Underlying net sales growth:                    6%
   Volume                    4%
   Price/Mix                 2%
                                              -----
Reported net sales growth                      16%
                                              =====

"Distribution  changes" refers to our operations in Australia and Germany, where
our net sales were affected due to  additional  margin  earned,  a change in the
timing of revenue  recognition  during the transition,  or the payment of excise
taxes. We believe these items create a disproportionate effect on the underlying
net sales growth, making comparisons difficult to understand.



"Foreign  exchange"  refers to net gains and  losses  incurred  by our sales and
purchases in currencies  other than the U.S.  dollar.  We use this to understand
the  growth  of  our  business  on  a  constant  dollar  basis,  as  we  believe
fluctuations  in exchange  rates distort the  underlying  growth of our business
(both positively and  negatively).  To neutralize the effect of foreign exchange
fluctuations,  we translate  current year results at prior year rates. In fiscal
2007,  our net sales,  gross profit,  operating  income,  and earnings per share
benefited from a weaker U.S. dollar, while advertising and selling, general, and
administrative  expenses were hurt. We believe separately identifying the impact
foreign exchange has on each of the key line items of the Consolidated Statement
of Operations  allows the reader to better  understand our  underlying  business
performance.

"Acquisitions"  refers to the effect the  Chambord  liqueur  and Casa  Herradura
acquisitions had on our results, which we believe makes comparisons difficult to
understand.  We believe  disclosing this effect separately aids in understanding
the  underlying  year-over-year  changes.

We believe that  disclosing the 6% underlying  revenue growth for fiscal 2007 is
important because it more accurately reflects our underlying performance.

Fiscal 2007 was another  strong year for Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee  Whiskey,  as
volume  increased  for the  fifteenth  consecutive  year,  passing the 9 million
nine-liter case milestone.  Consumer demand continued to expand for this iconic,
authentic  American  whiskey,  as  the  brand  added  525,000  nine-liter  cases
globally,  growing more than 6% over the prior year. The brand was  particularly
strong outside of the U.S.,  from which over 70%, or nearly  375,000  nine-liter
cases,   of  its  growth  came.   Depletions   grew  at  a   double-digit   rate
internationally and were notably robust in Germany, France, South Africa, Italy,
Russia,  and Japan.  Volumes  improved  in the low single  digits in the brand's
largest market, the U.S., adding  approximately  150,000 nine-liter cases to its
already large base.

Like Jack Daniel's U.S.  volume  growth,  the overall  total  distilled  spirits
category  continued to increase.  These industry trends, as measured by National
Alcohol  Beverage  Control  Association  (NABCA) data,  indicate total distilled
spirits  grew 3.6% for the  twelve  months  ending  April 30,  2007,  while Jack
Daniel's grew 3.2% for the same period.  One factor that may have contributed to
the Jack Daniel's U.S.  moderated growth rate was our  reorganization to combine
our wine and spirits sales and marketing organizations. With this reorganization
behind us, we anticipate that Jack Daniel's growth rate in the U.S. will improve
and be on par with the total distilled spirits category. However, if this year's
trend of Jack Daniel's  slight  underperformance  in growth rate relative to the
total  distilled  spirits  category  were to continue  in the  future,  it could
negatively affect our earnings growth rate.

Performance  for the rest of the Jack Daniel's family of brands was also strong.
Growing at a double-digit rate, Jack Daniel's ready-to-drink products approached
the 3 million nine-liter case mark on the strength of Jack Daniel's & Cola sales
in Australia  while Jack Daniel's  Single Barrel and  repackaged  Gentlemen Jack
combined to reach volumes of nearly 250,000 nine-liter cases.

Southern  Comfort global  depletions grew 3%, with mid-single digit gains in the
U.S. and South Africa. For the second consecutive year, worldwide depletions for
Finlandia  grew 15%, led again by volume growth in Poland,  the brand's  largest
market  (where it now sells over 600,000  nine-liter  cases),  and  double-digit
growth in numerous other markets,  including  Israel,  Russia,  and the U.K. The
brand grew in the low single digits in the very competitive U.S. vodka market.

All three of these premium global brands, Jack Daniel's,  Southern Comfort,  and
Finlandia, achieved record sales and profit levels in fiscal 2007.

Overall  volume  performance  was  mixed  for our  mid-priced  regional  brands.
Depletions grew in the mid-single  digits for both Fetzer Valley Oaks and Korbel
Champagnes,  while  Canadian  Mist,  Bolla,  and Early  Times all posted  volume
declines for the year.  Overall volumes for our super-premium  developing brands
grew at a double-digit  rate, led by solid growth for Sonoma-Cutrer and Woodford
Reserve. Ready-to-drink volumes continued their strong performance, expanding 9%
for the second  consecutive  year,  fueled  primarily by excellent  double-digit
gains in Australia.

The following table highlights  worldwide depletion results for our major brands
during fiscal 2007:

                        Nine-Liter       % Change
                       Cases (000s)      vs. 2006
                       ------------     -----------

 Jack Daniel's            9,075              6%
 Total RTDs(1)            3,360              9%
 Southern Comfort         2,465              3%
 Finlandia                2,440             15%
 Fetzer Valley Oaks       2,295              5%
 Canadian Mist            1,945             (4%)
 Korbel Champagnes        1,280              5%
 Bolla                    1,160             (5%)

 (1) RTD (ready-to-drink) volumes include Jack Daniel's and Southern Comfort
     products.


Gross profit is a key  performance  measure for us. The same  factors  described
above that boosted revenue growth also fueled the 13%, or $173 million, increase
in gross profit,  which approached $1.5 billion.  The table below summarizes the
major factors driving the gross profit growth for the year.

                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2006
Foreign exchange                                2%
Distribution changes                            2%
Acquisitions                                    2%
Trade inventory changes                        (1%)
Underlying gross profit growth:                 8%
   Volume                    6%
   Margin/Mix                2%
                                              -----
Reported gross profit growth                   13%
                                              =====

Underlying gross profit growth of 8% was fueled primarily by double-digit  gains
for Jack Daniel's,  Southern  Comfort,  Finlandia,  and our Jack Daniel's & Cola
ready-to-drink product sold primarily in Australia. Improved margins on Canadian
Mist,  reflecting the brand's recent  pricing  strategy,  and higher volumes for
several  other  brands,  including  Woodford  Reserve,   Sonoma-Cutrer,   Korbel
Champagne,  and Bonterra  wines,  also  contributed to the underlying  growth in
gross profit for the year.



We work  with our  distributor  partners  around  the  world to  enable  them to
maintain optimal inventories of our brands and to help them realize supply-chain
efficiencies.   Ultimately,  however,  given  the  number  of  distributors  and
importers  to whom we sell our brands,  we do not have control over their buying
patterns or the inventory held at either wholesale or retail levels.  Therefore,
we believe  it is  important  to provide  visibility  to both the  positive  and
negative  effects that  fluctuating  trade inventory levels have on our reported
results.  We compute this effect using our  historical  and estimated  depletion
trends  and,  as  shown  in the  table on page  29,  separately  identify  trade
inventory changes in the variance analysis for our key metrics.

Gross margin  declined  from 54.2% in fiscal 2006 to 52.8% in fiscal  2007.  The
major  factor  driving  this  decline  in  margin  was the  full-year  effect of
recording excise taxes for our German and Australian  businesses,  which lowered
gross margin by 1.5 percentage  points.  The distribution  structures changed in
these markets in October 2005 and February 2006, respectively,  causing us to be
responsible for collecting and remitting excise taxes in these markets.

Advertising expenses were up $38 million, or 12%, as we continued our long track
record of consistently  reinvesting to build our brands.  The weaker U.S. dollar
and spending  behind acquired  brands  (Chambord  liqueur and the Casa Herradura
brands)   contributed   to  the  increase  in  spending  for  the  year.   On  a
constant-exchange  basis, and excluding the effect of acquisitions,  advertising
investments were up 6%,  reflecting  incremental  spending behind Jack Daniel's,
Southern Comfort, Finlandia, and several of our super-premium developing brands.

                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2006
Foreign exchange                                3%
Acquisitions                                    3%
Underlying advertising growth                   6%
                                              -----
Reported advertising growth                    12%
                                              =====

                   ADVERTISING TRENDS

                      Advertising
      Fiscal            Expense             Growth vs.
       Year          (in millions)          Prior Year
       2003              $230                   7%
       2004               265                  15%
       2005               293                  11%
       2006               323                  10%
       2007               361                  12%


Selling,  general,  and administrative  expenses increased $68 million,  or 14%,
influenced by the following factors:
                                              Growth
                                             vs. 2006
Distribution changes                             5%
Acquisitions                                     3%
Foreign exchange                                 1%
Underlying SG&A growth                           5%
                                               -----
Reported SG&A growth                            14%
                                               =====

Higher  compensation and postretirement  costs increased the underlying selling,
general, and administrative  expenses.  We also made changes to our distribution
networks  during  fiscal  2006 in Germany  and  Australia  that we believe  will
improve our direct influence over in-market brand-building activities.

Other income  decreased $28 million in fiscal 2007, due primarily to the absence
of the following items that occurred during fiscal 2006:

 - $14 million consideration received from LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
   for the early termination of our distribution and marketing rights for the
   Glenmorangie family of brands;

 - $25 million gain relating to a contractual fee paid to us by Pernod Ricard
   following their acquisition of Allied Domecq and decision to exit
   Swift & Moore (formerly a joint venture between Allied Domecq and us
   in Australia); and

 - $5 million gain on the sale of unused Jekel winery assets in Monterey,
   California (although the Jekel brand remains an important part of our
   portfolio).

Partially  offsetting  the  absence  of these  items in  fiscal  2007 was an $11
million gain we  recognized  on the sale of an Italian  winery used in producing
Bolla wines to Gruppo  Italiano Vini (GIV).  Although the Bolla brand remains an
important part of our portfolio, we moved the responsibility for producing these
Italian wines to GIV, an Italian company, during fiscal 2007.

Operating income from continuing  operations for fiscal 2007 improved 7%, or $39
million.  Positive factors driving operating income growth were solid underlying
performances  from our premium global brands,  a weaker U.S.  dollar,  and a net
gain on the sale of  winery  property  in Italy.  These  positive  factors  were
partially  offset by the absence of several  items that occurred in fiscal 2006,
including a cash payment  received for the early  termination  of marketing  and
distribution rights for the Glenmorangie family of brands, a net gain related to
the restructuring of the ownership of our Australian distributor,  and a gain on
the sale of winery property in California.  The following  chart  summarizes the
major  factors  driving our 7% growth in  operating  income and  identifies  our
underlying operating income growth for fiscal 2007 of 11%, which we believe more
accurately reflects the underlying performance of our business.



                                             Growth
                                            vs. 2006
Absence of Glenmorangie consideration          (3%)
Distribution changes                           (4%)
Trade inventory changes                        (1%)
Acquisitions                                   (1%)
Net gain on sale of winery property             1%
Foreign exchange                                4%
Underlying operating income growth             11%
                                              -----
Reported operating income growth                7%
                                              =====

Interest expense (net) increased $12 million compared to fiscal 2006, reflecting
the  financing of the Casa  Herrudura  acquisition.  We  initially  financed the
acquisition  with  approximately  $114  million of cash and  approximately  $680
million of commercial  paper. We replaced some of this debt with the issuance of
$400 million of long-term debt in March 2007.

Effective tax rate reported for  continuing  operations in fiscal 2007 was 31.7%
compared to 29.3% reported in fiscal 2006. The 2.4 percentage points increase in
the rate was  primarily  attributable  to the absence of a tax benefit  achieved
last year by offsetting  various capital gains items (from the early termination
of Glenmorangie  marketing and distribution rights, the sale of winery property,
and  consideration   received  from  changes  in  our  Australian   distribution
operation)  against the capital loss resulting from the sale of Lenox,  Inc. The
effective tax rate was also  affected by the  phase-out of the  extraterritorial
income exclusion, as provided by The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations reached a record $3.22, up
1% over fiscal 2006.  Performance  for the year  benefited from solid growth for
Jack Daniel's,  Southern Comfort, and Finlandia, and improved volume and profits
from Jack Daniel's ready-to-drink product, sold primarily in Australia. Reported
results in both fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 were also  affected by several items
that we believe were not  representative  of our underlying  growth in earnings.
These items include:

Recorded in fiscal 2006:
 - A net benefit received from changes in our Australian distribution
   operation of approximately $0.15 per share;
 - Profits associated with the early termination of Glenmorangie marketing
   and distribution of approximately $0.11 per share;
 - A net gain on the sale of California winery property of approximately
   $0.04 per share; and
 - An increase in trade inventory levels which boosted earnings by
   approximately $0.05 per share.

Recorded in fiscal 2007:
 - A net gain on the sale of Italian winery property of approximately
   $0.08 per share;
 - A benefit resulting from a weaker U.S. dollar of approximately
   $0.13 per share; and
 - A reduction in earnings reflecting interest and transition expenses
   associated with our acquisitions of Chambord liqueur and Casa Herradura
   of approximately $0.15 per share.

Basic and diluted earnings per share. In Note 15 to our  consolidated  financial
statements,  we describe  our 2004  Omnibus  Compensation  Plan and how we issue
stock options under it. In Note 1, under "Stock-Based  Compensation" we describe
how the plan is designed to avoid diluting earnings per share.

Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005

Net sales  improved 10%, or $217 million,  driven by higher sales for almost all
of our brands but notably for Jack Daniel's,  Southern  Comfort,  and Finlandia,
reflecting  higher  volumes,  and margin  expansion  related to  selected  price
increases.  Jack Daniel's registered growth for the fourteenth consecutive year,
as demand expanded 8% globally, or 665,000 nine-liter cases, to over 8.5 million
nine-liter cases.  Southern Comfort worldwide volumes expanded 5% for the second
consecutive  year.   Results  for  Finlandia  were  also  strong,  as  worldwide
depletions  accelerated,  growing  15%  led  by  volume  growth  in  Poland  and
double-digit  increases in Israel,  Russia,  and China.  Higher volumes from our
super-premium developing brands, including Woodford Reserve, Sonoma-Cutrer,  and
Tuaca, and our ready-to-drink  performance in Australia, also contributed to the
growth in sales for the year.

Gross  profit grew 13%, or $152  million.  This  growth  resulted  from the same
factors that  generated  revenue  growth.  Gross margin  increased from 52.7% in
fiscal 2005 to 54.2% in fiscal 2006. The major factors driving this  improvement
were price increases on several brands in various markets,  a favorable shift of
business to more profitable markets and brands, and significantly lower cost for
wines.

Advertising  expenses  increased 10% as we increased  brand-building  activities
behind  Jack  Daniel's,   Southern  Comfort,   Finlandia,  and  several  of  our
super-premium developing brands, including Woodford Reserve and Tuaca. Partially
offsetting  these  increases  in spending  were the  benefit of a stronger  U.S.
dollar  on  spending  outside  of  the  U.S.  and  the  absence  of  advertising
investments behind two low-carbohydrate wines, One.6 Chardonnay and One.9 Merlot
in fiscal 2005.

Selling,  general,  and administrative  expenses increased 12% from fiscal 2005,
driven by changes in our distribution  networks around the world that we believe
will enhance our direct  influence over in-market  brand-building  activities in
key markets in Continental  Europe,  Australia,  and Japan. In addition,  higher
postretirement  expenses,  inflation  on salary  and  related,  and  third-party
advisory fees  associated  with the evaluation of a possible  purchase of Allied
Domecq, contributed to the growth in spending.

Other income improved $45 million in fiscal 2006 due primarily to three items:
 - a $14 million benefit associated with terminating our distribution rights
   to the Glenmorangie family of brands;
 - a $25 million gain related to acquiring full ownership of our Australian
   distributor; and
 - a $5 million gain from selling winery assets.



Operating income reached a then record $563 million in fiscal 2006, growing $118
million,  or 26%,  reflecting  strong  underlying  growth for our premium global
brands.  The  payment  received  for the  early  termination  of  marketing  and
distribution  rights for the Glenmorangie family of brands, the net gain related
to the restructuring of the ownership of our Australian distributor, the gain on
the sale of winery  assets,  and profits  associated  with higher  global  trade
inventory levels  contributed to the growth in operating income.  These positive
factors were partially offset by the negative effect of a stronger U.S. dollar.

Interest  expense (net) declined $9 million  compared to fiscal 2005  reflecting
significantly  higher cash  balances due in part to the sale of Lenox,  Inc. and
the repayment of approximately $280 million of short- and medium-term notes.

Effective tax rate for  continuing  operations in fiscal 2006 was 29.3% compared
to 32.6% in fiscal  2005.  The decline in the rate  primarily  reflects  the tax
benefit  achieved by offsetting  various  capital gains against the capital loss
resulting from the sale of Lenox, Inc.

Diluted earnings per share increased 16% to $3.20 per share in fiscal 2006. This
growth  resulted from the same factors that generated  operating  income growth,
though it was tempered by the absence of a gain  recorded in fiscal 2005 related
to the sale of our shares in Glenmorangie plc.

OTHER KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURES

Our primary goal is to increase the value of our  shareholders'  investment.  We
believe  that  long-term  growth  in the  market  value  of our  stock is a good
indication of our success in delivering attractive returns to shareholders.

TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN. While an investment made in Brown-Forman Class B stock
a year  ago has  declined  nearly  9% and the  S&P  500  has  increased,  a $100
investment in our stock over the  long-term has outpaced the return  provided by
the S&P 500.  A $100  investment  in our Class B stock five years ago would have
grown to nearly $183 by the end of fiscal  2007,  assuming  reinvestment  of all
dividends and ignoring personal taxes and transaction  costs. This represents an
annualized return of 13% over the five-year period, compared to an 8% annualized
increase for the S&P 500.

               Compound Annual Growth in Total Shareholder Return
          (as of April 30, 2007, and including dividend reinvestment)

                               1 Year       5 Years      10 Years      15 Years

Brown-Forman Class B shares      (9%)         13%           12%           14%
S&P 500 index                    16%           8%            8%           11%


RETURN ON AVERAGE INVESTED CAPITAL.  Our return on average invested capital from
continuing  operations  improved 3.4 percentage  points from fiscal 2004 through
fiscal 2006 reflecting record earnings fueled by double-digit organic growth and
tight management of our investment base.  Despite our return on average invested
capital  declining  in fiscal 2007 to 17.4%,  our returns  continued  to outpace
those of nearly all of our  competitors.  Record  earnings  in fiscal  2007 were
offset by the dilutive  effect of the  investments in Chambord  liqueur and Casa
Herradura.  We believe our return on invested  capital will  continue to improve
over the long term,  given our positive  outlook for earnings growth and careful
management of our investment base.  However,  we expect a decline in our returns
next fiscal year due to the full-year effect of the Casa Herradura  acquisition,
which is expected to be dilutive initially but is projected to build and enhance
our returns, as we believe the brands have considerable growth potential.

Return on Average Invested Capital from Continuing Operations:

   Fiscal 2004     18.5%
   Fiscal 2005     23.0%
   Fiscal 2006     21.9%
   Fiscal 2007     17.4%


BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FOR WINE AND SPIRITS

GENERALLY.  The business climate for distilled  spirits,  our principal  product
line,  continues to be solid in the U.S.  (our  biggest  market) and very robust
overseas.  This reflects favorable demographic and income trends in the U.S. and
the popularity of Jack Daniel's,  Southern Comfort,  and Finlandia Vodka in many
international markets. The trend toward premium products continues,  which helps
our brands. We see great opportunity in emerging markets such as China,  Central
Europe, and South Africa.

The wine  business is more  challenging,  given margin  pressure and a high cost
basis.  However,  wine and spirits  combined have taken market share in beverage
alcohol  from beer in the U.S.  Favorable  demographic  trends  should  help the
top-line growth of wine sales, but acceptable profitability remains a challenge.
We continue to actively  pursue  opportunities  to improve our overall wine cost
structure  and our brand  performance  such as those we  accomplished  this past
year,  including the sale of a winery operation in Italy and the  reorganization
of our wine production facilities.




GOVERNMENT POLICIES, PUBLIC ATTITUDES.  Against this background of good business
trends,  we know  that our  ability  to  market  and sell our  beverage  alcohol
products  depends heavily on society's  attitudes toward drinking and government
policies that flow from those  attitudes.  This is not just a U.S. issue but one
we see in Europe and around the world. In particular,  a number of organizations
criticize  abusive  drinking  and  blame  alcohol   manufacturers  for  problems
associated  with alcohol  misuse.  Specifically,  critics say alcohol  companies
market their products to encourage underage drinking.

We are extremely careful to market our beverage products only to adults. We were
one of the first companies to adopt a comprehensive marketing code governing the
sale of our wine and spirits brands,  which emphasizes the importance of content
and  placement  to minimize  exposure to the  underaged.  We adhere to marketing
codes of the Distilled  Spirits Council of the U.S. and the Wine  Institute.  We
also contribute  significant  resources to The Century Council,  an organization
that we and other spirits producers created to combat drunk driving and underage
drinking.

Illegal  alcohol  consumption  by underaged  drinkers and abusive  drinking by a
minority of adult  drinkers  give rise to public  issues of great  significance.
Alcohol  critics  seek  governmental  measures  to make  beverage  alcohol  more
expensive,  less  available,  and more  difficult to advertise  and promote.  We
disagree that this is a good  strategy to deal with the minority of  individuals
who abuse  alcohol.  In our view,  society is more likely to curb alcohol  abuse
through better  education  about beverage  alcohol and by setting a good example
through moderate drinking than by restricting  alcohol  advertising and sales or
imposing punitive taxation.

Legal or regulatory measures against beverage alcohol (including its advertising
and promotion) could hurt our sales.  Especially in the U.S.,  distilled spirits
are at a marked  disadvantage  to beer and wine in  taxation,  access to network
television  advertising,  and the  number and type of sales  outlets.  Achieving
greater  cultural  acceptance  of our  products and parity with beer and wine in
access to consumers are major goals that we share with other distillers.

POLICY  OBJECTIVES.  We believe that  beverage  alcohol  should be regarded like
other beneficial products, such as automobiles,  power lawnmowers, and chocolate
- - which can be  hazardous  if misused  by the  consumer.  Therefore,  we seek to
encourage  the proper  use of our  products  and  discourage  abuse of  alcohol,
particularly drinking by those under the legal drinking age. We believe the most
powerful  way to  encourage  proper  drinking and  discourage  alcohol  abuse is
through partnership with parents, schools, and other organizations.

We also seek  recognition  that  distilled  spirits,  wine,  and  beer,  are all
different forms of beverage alcohol,  and should be treated on an equal basis by
government.  Generally speaking,  however, distilled spirits,  especially in the
U.S.,  pay higher  taxes per ounce of pure  alcohol,  are subject to more severe
restrictions  on the  places  and  hours of sale,  and in some  venues  (such as
network  TV) are denied the right to  advertise.  We seek to "level the  playing
field" in beverage alcohol.

We also seek, for the convenience of our customers, Sunday sales in those states
that still ban them. We encourage rules that liberalize  international trade, so
that we can expand our international  business.  We oppose tax increases,  which
make our products more expensive for our consumers, and seek to diminish the tax
advantage enjoyed by beer.

TAXES. Like all goods, beverage alcohol sales are sensitive to higher tax rates.
No  legislation to increase U.S.  federal  excise taxes on distilled  spirits is
currently  pending,  but future tax  increases are always  possible,  as are tax
increases  levied on the broader  business  community.  From time to time, state
legislatures  increase beverage alcohol taxes. The cumulative effect of such tax
increases  over time hurts  sales.  Because  combined  federal  and state  taxes
already  account for more than 50% of the price of a typical  bottle of bourbon,
we work for reasonable excise tax reductions.  Increased tax rates,  advertising
restrictions,  and  outmoded  product  standards  also affect  beverage  alcohol
markets outside the U.S. To date, those changes have not been significant to our
overall business, but that could change.

THE LITIGATION CLIMATE. A law firm has filed nine class-action  lawsuits against
spirits, beer, and wine manufacturers, including us, alleging that our marketing
causes illegal  consumption of alcohol by those under the legal drinking age. We
dispute these allegations and will defend these cases  vigorously.  To date, the
first six courts to consider  those  lawsuits have  dismissed them and two cases
have been  voluntarily  withdrawn.  However,  the  plaintiffs  have appealed the
dismissal of the six cases.  Adverse  developments in these or similar  lawsuits
could hurt our beverage business and the overall industry.

DISTRIBUTION  STRATEGY.  We use a number of different  business models to market
and  distribute  our products  overseas.  But we rely  largely on other  spirits
producers  to  distribute  and market our  products  outside  the U.S.  Although
consolidation  among spirits producers could hinder the distribution of our wine
and  spirits  products in the future,  to date this has rarely  happened.  Other
spirits  companies  typically  seek to distribute  our premium  spirits and wine
brands, and we expect that demand to continue.

EXCHANGE RATES. The strength of foreign  currencies  relative to the U.S. dollar
affects  sales and cost to  purchase  goods and  services  in our  international
business.  This  year,  our  earnings  were  helped  by a  weaker  U.S.  dollar,
particularly in the U.K., Australia,  and Continental Europe. We have hedged the
majority of our exposure to foreign  exchange  fluctuations  in 2008 by entering
into foreign currency forwards and option contracts. However, if the U.S. dollar
appreciates significantly,  the effect on our business would be negative for any
unhedged portion.



DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

                        Summary of Operating Performance
                (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

                                                 2005        2006         2007
                                                 ----        ----         ----

Net sales                                        $534        $166         $ 50
Operating expenses                               (524)       (178)         (53)
Impairment charge                                 (37)        (60)          (9)
Transaction costs                                  --         (10)          (1)
                                                 ----        ----         ----
   Loss before income taxes                       (27)        (82)         (13)
Income tax (expense) benefit                       (4)          7            2
                                                 ----        ----         ----
   Net loss from discontinued operations         $(31)       $(75)        $(11)
                                                 ====        ====         ====
Loss per share:
   Basic                                        (0.256)     (0.615)      (0.087)
   Diluted                                      (0.255)     (0.608)      (0.086)


As discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying financial statements,  we sold Lenox,
Inc.  during fiscal 2006, and sold Brooks & Bentley and Hartmann in fiscal 2007.
As  a  result,  we  have  reported  them  as  discontinued   operations  in  the
accompanying financial statements.

The net loss  from  discontinued  operations  in  fiscal  2007  was $11  million
compared to a net loss of $75  million in fiscal  2006.  Fiscal 2006  included a
pre-tax impairment charge and transaction costs totaling $70 million in addition
to a loss from the  operations of Lenox Inc.  incurred  during the period before
the sale.  Fiscal 2007 loss includes a pre-tax  impairment charge of $9 million.
The majority of this  impairment  relates to the decision made in fiscal 2007 by
our Board of Directors to sell Hartmann and to focus our efforts entirely on our
beverage  business.  The $7 million pretax  impairment  charge  associated  with
Hartmann  consisted  of a goodwill  impairment  of $4 million and an  impairment
charge of $3 million that  represented  the excess of the carrying  value of the
net assets to be sold over the expected sales  proceeds,  net of estimated costs
to sell.

Before we decided to sell Hartmann, no impairment charge was recorded because we
believed its operations would generate sufficient future cash flows to enable us
to fully recover its carrying amount. The decision to sell Hartmann reflects the
Board's  opinion that the sum of the price to be obtained  from the sale and the
strategic value of focusing  entirely on our beverage  business would be greater
than the value of continuing to operate Hartmann.

There was also a $2 million  pre-tax  impairment  charge  recorded  for Brooks &
Bentley in fiscal  2007.  This  impairment  charge  reflected  a revision to its
estimated fair value and costs to sell, based on the negotiations  that resulted
in the sale of Brooks & Bentley.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our ability to generate  cash from  operations  consistently  is one of our most
significant  financial  strengths.  Our  strong  cash  flows  enable  us to  pay
dividends,  pursue brand-building programs, and make strategic acquisitions that
we believe will enhance  shareholder value.  Investment grade ratings of A2 from
Moody's and A from Standard & Poor's provide us with financial  flexibility when
accessing global credit markets.  We believe cash flows from operations are more
than adequate to meet our expected operating and capital requirements. In fiscal
2007,  our cash flow from  operations,  cash on hand, and a net increase in debt
enabled us to fund capital expenditures of $58 million,  distribute $143 million
in dividends to our shareholders,  and to support acquisitions  totaling over $1
billion.


Cash Flow Summary
(Dollars in millions)                      2005        2006        2007
                                          ------      ------      ------
Operating activities                      $ 396       $ 343       $ 355

Investing activities:
   Acquisitions                             (64)         --      (1,045)
   Sale of discontinued operations           --         205          12
   Sale of investment in affiliate           93          --          --
   Net (purchase) sale of short-term
    securities                               --        (160)         74
   Additions to property, plant,
    and equipment                           (44)        (51)        (58)
   Other                                     (1)          3         (21)
                                          ------      ------      ------
                                            (16)         (3)     (1,038)
Financing activities:
   Net (repayment) issuance of debt         (50)        (55)        597
   Dividends                               (111)       (128)       (143)
   Other                                      8          23          33
                                          ------      ------      ------
                                           (153)       (160)        487
                                          ------      ------      ------
Foreign exchange effect                      --          --           4
                                          ------      ------      ------
Change in cash and cash equivalents       $ 227       $ 180       $(192)
                                          ======      ======      ======

Cash  provided by  operations  was $355 million in fiscal 2007  compared to $343
million in fiscal 2006.  This increase was driven by a $24 million  reduction in
cash used for discontinued  operations following the sale of both Lenox, Inc. in
fiscal 2006 and the remaining  businesses  that  comprised  the former  consumer
durables segment in fiscal 2007. We generated $349 million in cash flow from the
operating  activities  of  continuing  operations  in fiscal 2007, a 3% decrease
compared with $361 million in the prior year.  Higher earnings were offset by an
increase in working  capital  requirements  due in part to the  acquisitions  of
Chambord  liqueur  and Casa  Herradura.  In  addition,  an  increase in barreled
whiskey inventory levels for Jack Daniel's and a reduction in our accrued income
taxes due to the  seasonalization  of our  payments  increased  working  capital
requirements.

Cash used for investing  activities in fiscal 2007  increased by $1,035  million
compared to fiscal 2006,  largely  reflecting the  acquisitions  of Chambord and
Casa Herradura for a total of $1,045 million during fiscal 2007.

Cash  provided by  financing  activities  increased by $647  million,  primarily
reflecting the issuance of a combination of commercial paper and $400 million of
debt to finance the acquisition of Casa Herradura.



In comparing fiscal 2006 with fiscal 2005, cash provided by operations decreased
$53 million,  as higher earnings were offset by a $59 million  reduction in cash
provided by discontinued  operations following the sale of Lenox, Inc. in fiscal
2006. Cash used for investing activities declined $13 million in fiscal 2006, as
proceeds received on the sale of Lenox, Inc. were offset by capital spending and
higher interest-yielding short-term investments.

                          Fiscal 2007 Cash Utilization

Sources of Cash:
   Long-term borrowings                      56%
   Operating activities                      33%
   Sale of short-term investments             7%
   Stock option exercises                     3%
   Sale of discontinued operations            1%

Uses of Cash:
   Acquisitions                              82%
   Dividends                                 11%
   Capital spending                           5%
   Purchase of short-term investments         2%


Investments in property,  plant,  and equipment were $44 million in fiscal 2005,
$51 million in fiscal 2006,  and $58 million in fiscal 2007.  Expenditures  over
the three-year  period  included  investments to maintain,  expand,  and improve
efficiencies of our production  operations and to provide  capital  resources to
build our brands.

We expect  capital  expenditures  for fiscal 2008 to be $70 to $80  million,  an
increase  compared  to our  spending  over the past  three  fiscal  years.  This
increase  reflects  investments to further expand capacity of our production and
distribution  facilities to meet the continued  growing demand for Jack Daniel's
and  investments  resulting  from the Casa Herradura  acquisition.  We will also
continue to invest in technology to enhance our  understanding of our consumers,
improve the efficiency of our production operations, augment the quality of each
of our  brands,  and build our brands.  We expect to fund  fiscal  2008  capital
expenditures with cash provided by operations.

In March 2003, we  repurchased  7.9 million  shares of our common stock for $561
million, including transaction costs, through a "Dutch auction" tender offer. We
financed the  repurchase by issuing $600 million in debt;  of this amount,  $250
million was repaid in March 2006, and the remaining $350 million is due in March
2008. We expect to meet the 2008  obligation  through cash from  operations  and
existing commercial paper capacity.

We have access to short-term  capital markets through the issuance of commercial
paper, backed by a bank credit agreement for $800 million that expires in fiscal
2012. The credit agreement  provides us with an immediate and continuing  source
of liquidity.  At April 30, 2007, we had no  outstanding  borrowings  under this
agreement.

In  January  2007,  we  filed  a new  shelf  registration  with  the  SEC for an
undetermined  amount of securities  that gives us prompt  access to  longer-term
financing.

Effective May 31, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Chambord liqueur and all
related  assets  from  Chatam  International   Incorporated  and  its  operating
subsidiary, Charles Jacquin et Cie Inc., for $251 million, including transaction
costs.  The  acquisition  consisted  primarily  of the  Chambord  brand name and
goodwill,  to which we  allocated  $116 million and $127 million of the purchase
price, respectively.

On January 18, 2007, we completed the  acquisition of  substantially  all of the
assets of Casa  Herradura and its affiliates  relating to its tequila  business,
including  the  Herradura  and el Jimador  tequilas,  the New-Mix  tequila-based
ready-to-drink brand, the trade names and trademarks associated with such brands
and other  acquired  brands,  as well as related  production  facilities and the
sales,  marketing,  and  distribution  organization  in Mexico.  The cost of the
acquisition,  including  transaction  costs,  was $794  million,  which has been
preliminarily  allocated to the acquired assets and  liabilities  (see Note 3 to
the accompanying consolidated financial statements). We financed the acquisition
with  approximately  $114 million of cash and  approximately  $680 of commercial
paper, $400 million of which was subsequently replaced with long-term debt.

On March  22,  2007,  our  Board  of  Directors  approved  the  distribution  to
shareholders of the $204 million in cash received (net of transaction fees) from
the sale of Lenox,  Inc. and Brooks & Bentley.  The  distribution of $1.6533 per
share was made on May 10, 2007, to  shareholders of record on April 5, 2007. The
Internal  Revenue  Service has issued to us a private letter ruling which states
that the  special  distribution  will be  treated as a  distribution  in partial
liquidation pursuant to Sections 302(b)(4) and 302(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue
Code.

LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

We have  long-term  obligations  related to  contracts,  leases,  and  borrowing
arrangements  that we enter into in the normal  course of business  (see Notes 5
and 7 to the  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements).  The following
table summarizes the amounts of those  obligations as of April 30, 2007, and the
years when those obligations must be paid:


Long-Term Obligations                                      2009-     After
(Dollars in millions)                    Total     2008     2012      2012
                                         -----     ----     ----      ----
Long-term debt                          $  776     $354      $414     $  8
Interest on long-term debt                 106       33        72        1
Grape purchase obligations                 104       29        55       20
Operating leases                            44       13        21       10
Postretirement benefit obligations(1)        6        6       n/a      n/a
Agave purchase obligations(2)              n/a      n/a       n/a      n/a
                                         -----     ----      ----     ----
Total                                   $1,036     $435      $562     $ 39
                                         =====     ====      ====     ====

 (1) As of April 30, 2007, we have unfunded pension and other postretirement
     benefit obligations of $104 million. Because the specific periods in which
     those obligations will be funded are not determinable, no amounts related
     to those obligations are reflected in the above table other than the
     $6 million of expected contribution in fiscal 2008. Historically, we have
     generally funded these obligations with the minimum annual contribution
     required by ERISA, but we may elect to contribute more than the minimum
     amount in future years.
 (2) As discussed in Note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial
     statements, we have obligations to purchase agave. Because the specific
     periods in which those obligations will be paid are not determinable, no
     amounts related to those obligations are reflected in the table above.

We expect to meet these obligations with internally generated funds.



MARKET RISKS

Our foreign currency hedging contracts are subject to changes in exchange rates;
our commodity  futures and option  contracts are subject to changes in commodity
prices;  and some of our debt  obligations  are  subject to changes in  interest
rates. We discuss these instruments'  sensitivity to market  fluctuations below.
See Note 5 to our consolidated  financial  statements for information  regarding
our grape and agave  purchase  obligations,  which are also exposed to commodity
price risk, and "Critical Accounting Estimates" for a discussion of the exposure
of our pension and other postretirement plans to interest rate risks.

Inflationary,  deflationary,  and recessionary conditions affecting these market
risks also affect the demand for and  pricing of our  products.  See  "Important
Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" (page 56) for details.

FOREIGN  EXCHANGE.  As a result of continued growth in  international  sales, we
estimate that our foreign  currency  revenues  will exceed our foreign  currency
expenses by  approximately  $460 million in fiscal 2008. To the extent that this
foreign currency exposure is not hedged, our results of operations and financial
position are positively  affected when the U.S.  dollar weakens  against foreign
currencies and negatively affected when the dollar strengthens against them.

However, we routinely use foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge
our foreign  exchange risk.  Provided the contracts  remain effective in hedging
the foreign exchange risk, we do not recognize any unrealized gains or losses on
the  contracts  in  earnings  until  the  underlying  hedged   transactions  are
recognized in earnings.  At April 30, 2007,  our foreign  currency  hedges had a
total notional  value of $406 million and a net  unrealized  loss of $6 million.
Assuming the contracts remain effective hedges, we estimate that if the value of
the U.S.  dollar  averaged  10%  higher in  fiscal  2008  than the  fiscal  2007
effective  rates for the  currencies  in which we do  business,  our fiscal 2008
operating income would decrease by $7 million. Conversely, a 10% average decline
in the value of the dollar would increase operating income by $29 million. Thus,
over the longer term,  reported profits from our  international  business may be
adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies.

COMMODITY  PRICES.  We are  subject  to  commodity  price  volatility  caused by
weather,  supply  conditions,  geopolitical  and economic  variables,  and other
unpredictable  external factors.  We use futures contracts and options to reduce
the volatility of pricing for certain commodities,  primarily corn. At April 30,
2007, we had outstanding  hedge positions on  approximately 1 million bushels of
corn with a negligible  net  unrealized  loss.  We estimate that a 10% change in
commodity  prices would result in negligible  incremental  gain or loss on these
contracts.

INTEREST RATES. Our short-term investments and short-term borrowings are exposed
to the risk of changes in interest rates.  Based on April 30, 2007,  balances of
variable-rate  debt and  investments,  a 1%  increase  in  interest  rates would
increase our net interest  expense,  which includes  interest income on cash and
short-term investments, by $4 million.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Our financial  statements  reflect  certain  estimates  involved in applying the
following   critical   accounting   policies  that  entail   uncertainties   and
subjectivity.  Using  different  estimates  could have a material  effect on our
operating results, financial condition, and changes in financial condition.

GOODWILL  AND OTHER  INTANGIBLE  ASSETS.  We have  obtained  most of our  brands
through acquisitions from other companies. Upon acquisition,  the purchase price
is first allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities, including brand names
and other intangible  assets,  based on estimated fair value, with any remaining
purchase  price  recorded  as  goodwill.  Goodwill  and  intangible  assets with
indefinite  lives are not amortized.  We consider all of our brand names to have
indefinite lives.

We assess our brand  names and  goodwill  for  impairment  at least  annually to
ensure that future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A brand
name is impaired if its book value exceeds its fair value. Goodwill is evaluated
for  impairment  if the book value of its  reporting  unit exceeds its estimated
fair value.  Fair value is determined using discounted  future cash flows,  with
consideration  of market values for similar assets when  available.  If the fair
value of an  evaluated  asset is less than its book value,  the asset is written
down to its estimated fair value.

Considerable  management judgment is necessary to assess impairment and estimate
fair value. The assumptions used in our evaluations,  such as forecasted  growth
rates and cost of capital,  are  consistent  with our internal  projections  and
operating plans.

PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT. We depreciate our property, plant, and equipment
on a straight-line  basis using our estimates of useful life, which are 20 to 40
years for buildings and  improvements,  3 to 10 years for machinery,  equipment,
furniture, and fixtures, and 3 to 7 years for capitalized software.

We assess our property,  plant,  and equipment and other  long-lived  assets for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying value of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Fair value is
determined  using  discounted  future cash flows,  with  consideration of market
values for similar  assets  when  available.  If the fair value of an  evaluated
asset is less than its book value, we write it down to its estimated fair value.

Considerable  management judgment is necessary to assess impairment and estimate
fair  value.  Assumptions  used in these  evaluations  are  consistent  with our
internal projections and operating plans.

PENSION AND OTHER  POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFITS.  We sponsor various defined benefit
pension plans as well as postretirement  plans providing retiree health care and
retiree life insurance benefits.  Benefits are based on such factors as years of
service and compensation  level during  employment.  The benefits expected to be
paid are expensed over the employees' expected service. This requires us to make
certain  assumptions to determine the expected benefit,  such as interest rates,
return on plan  assets,  the rate of salary  increases,  expected  service,  and
health care cost trend rates.



The assets,  obligations,  and  assumptions  used to measure pension and retiree
medical  expenses  are  determined  as of  January  31  of  the  preceding  year
("measurement  date").  Because  obligations are measured on a discounted basis,
the discount rate is a significant assumption. It is based on interest rates for
high-quality,  long-term  corporate debt at each measurement  date. The expected
return on pension  plan  assets is based on our  historical  experience  and our
expectations for long-term rates of return.  The other  assumptions also reflect
our  historical  experience  and  management's  best judgment  regarding  future
expectations.  We review our  assumptions on each annual  measurement  date. For
fiscal 2007, we have  increased the discount rate for pension  obligations  from
5.95% to 6.04%, and for other  postretirement  benefit obligations from 5.95% to
5.98%.  Pension and postretirement  benefit expense for fiscal 2008 is estimated
to be  approximately  $25  million,  compared to $22 million for fiscal  2007. A
decrease/increase   in   the   discount   rate   of  25   basis   points   would
increase/decrease the fiscal 2008 expense by approximately $1 million.

As discussed in Note 12 to the accompanying  consolidated  financial statements,
we adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 158,  "Employer's
Accounting  for  Defined  Benefit  Pension and Other  Postretirement  Plans - an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)," on April 30, 2007.

INCOME  TAXES.  Our annual tax rate is based on our income and the statutory tax
rates in the various  jurisdictions  in which we operate.  In fiscal  2007,  our
annual income tax rate for continuing operations was 31.7%, compared to 29.3% in
fiscal  2006.  The tax rate in fiscal  2007  increased  2.4  percentage  points,
primarily as a result of the absence of the fiscal 2006 tax benefit  achieved by
offsetting   various  capital  gains  items  (from  the  early   termination  of
Glenmorangie marketing and distribution rights, the sale of winery property, and
consideration from changes in our Australian  distribution)  against the capital
loss  resulting  from the sale of Lenox,  Inc.  The  total  Lenox  capital  loss
exceeded the amount of capital  gains offset  during fiscal 2006 by $64 million.
Currently,  we are unaware of any particular  transactions  that will permit the
use of this capital loss  carryforward,  so we have not recorded any tax benefit
relating to it. The effective tax rate was also affected by the phase-out of the
extraterritorial income exclusion, as provided by The American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004 (the "Act").

Additionally,  the Act,  which was enacted in October 2004,  provided a special,
one-time  opportunity  to deduct from taxable  income 85% of certain  qualifying
foreign dividends  repatriated in the U.S. from controlled foreign corporations,
subject to various limitations and restrictions.  In fiscal 2006, we repatriated
$277  million of  foreign  earnings  previously  considered  to be  indefinitely
reinvested  outside  of  the  U.S.  This  one  time  opportunity  allowed  us to
repatriate earnings in excess of those for which a deferred income tax liability
previously had been  established.  The deferred tax liability covered all of the
associated tax expense  attributable to the repatriation.  We intend to continue
to reinvest  earnings outside the U.S.  indefinitely and have not recognized any
U.S. tax expense on these earnings. At April 30, 2007, we had approximately $230
million of undistributed international earnings.

Significant  judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions.  We establish
reserves when we believe that certain  positions are likely to be challenged and
may not  succeed,  despite  our belief that our tax return  positions  are fully
supportable.   We  adjust  these   reserves  in  light  of  changing  facts  and
circumstances,  such as the progress of a tax audit. We believe current reserves
are appropriate for all known contingencies, but this situation could change.

Several  years  can  elapse  before  a  particular  matter  for  which  we  have
established a reserve is resolved.  Although predicting the final outcome or the
timing of resolution of any particular  tax matter can be difficult,  we believe
that our  reserves  reflect  the  likely  outcome  of known  tax  contingencies.
Unfavorable  settlement of any  particular  issue could require use of our cash.
Favorable  resolution  would be  recognized  as a reduction to our effective tax
rate at the time of resolution.

In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Interpretation No.
48,  "Accounting  for  Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an  interpretation  of FASB
Statement No. 109" (FIN 48), which  clarifies the accounting for  uncertainty in
tax positions.  This interpretation  requires that we recognize in our financial
statements the impact of a tax position if that position is more likely than not
to be sustained on audit,  based on the technical  merits of the  position.  The
provisions  of FIN 48 become  effective  as of the  beginning of our 2008 fiscal
year, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting  principle recorded
as an adjustment to opening retained earnings.  We do not expect our adoption of
FIN 48 to affect our financial statements materially.

CONTINGENCIES.  We operate in a  litigious  environment,  and we are sued in the
normal  course of  business.  Sometimes  plaintiffs  seek  substantial  damages.
Significant  judgment is required in  predicting  the outcome of these suits and
claims, many of which take years to adjudicate.  We accrue estimated costs for a
contingency when we believe that a loss is probable and we can make a reasonable
estimate of a loss, and adjust the accrual as appropriate to reflect  changes in
facts and circumstances.

A law firm has sued  Brown-Forman and many other  manufacturers and marketers of
spirits,  wines, and beer in a series of nine very similar class-action lawsuits
seeking damages and injunctive relief from alleged marketing of beverage alcohol
to underage consumers.  The suits allege that the defendants engage in deceptive
and negligent marketing  practices  targeting underage  consumers.  They seek to
recover  on behalf of parents  those  funds  that  their  children  spent on the
illegal  purchase of alcohol as well as  disgorgement  of all  profits  from the
alleged illegal sales. We are vigorously defending these cases. Six of the suits
have been dismissed by trial court and are being  appealed.  Two cases have been
voluntarily withdrawn.  One is pending decision of a dismissal motion. We cannot
yet predict the outcome of these claims, including whether we will incur related
losses or the  amount of such  losses.  Since we cannot  estimate  the amount of
possible loss, no amounts have been accrued.  But an unfavorable result in these
or similar  class-action  lawsuits  could have a material  adverse impact on our
business.



                                  Brown-Forman
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
               (Expressed in millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                            2005         2006         2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales                                      $2,195       $2,412       $2,806
Excise taxes                                      417          468          588
Cost of sales                                     622          636          737
                                               --------------------------------

   Gross profit                                 1,156        1,308        1,481


Advertising expenses                              293          323          361
Selling, general, and administrative expenses     420          469          537
Other income, net                                  (2)         (47)         (19)
                                               --------------------------------
   Operating income                               445          563          602


Gain on sale of investment in affiliate            72           --           --
Interest income                                     7           14           18
Interest expense                                   20           18           34
                                               --------------------------------
   Income from continuing operations
    before income taxes                           504          559          586

Income taxes                                      165          164          186
                                               --------------------------------
   Income from continuing operations              339          395          400

Loss from discontinued operations,
 net of income taxes                              (31)         (75)         (11)
                                               --------------------------------
   Net income                                  $  308       $  320       $  389
                                               ================================

Basic earnings (loss) per share:
   Continuing operations                       $2.788       $3.239       $3.257
   Discontinued operations                     (0.256)      (0.615)      (0.087)
                                               --------------------------------
      Total                                    $2.532       $2.624       $3.170
                                               ================================

Diluted earnings (loss) per share:
   Continuing operations                       $2.772       $3.204       $3.222
   Discontinued operations                     (0.255)      (0.608)      (0.086)
                                               --------------------------------
      Total                                    $2.517       $2.596       $3.136
                                               ================================


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.




                                  Brown-Forman
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
          (Expressed in millions, except share and per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
April 30,                                                    2006          2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets
- ------
Cash and cash equivalents                                   $ 475         $ 283
Short-term investments                                        160            86
Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful
   accounts of $5 in 2006 and $22 in 2007                     323           404
Inventories:
   Barreled whiskey                                           274           303
   Finished goods                                              94           151
   Work in process                                            106           198
   Raw materials and supplies                                  37            42
                                                           ---------------------
      Total inventories                                       511           694
Current portion of deferred income taxes                       80            76
Current assets held for sale                                   26            --
Other current assets                                           34            92
                                                           ---------------------
Total Current Assets                                        1,609         1,635

Property, plant, and equipment, net                           425           506
Prepaid pension cost                                          146            23
Goodwill                                                      192           670
Other intangible assets                                       325           684
Noncurrent assets held for sale                                 9            --
Other assets                                                   22            33
                                                           ---------------------
Total Assets                                               $2,728        $3,551
                                                           =====================

Liabilities
- -----------
Accounts payable and accrued expenses                       $ 289        $  361
Accrued income taxes                                           49            27
Payable to shareholders                                        --           204
Short-term borrowings                                         225           401
Current portion of long-term debt                              --           354
Current liabilities held for sale                               6            --
                                                           ---------------------
Total Current Liabilities                                     569         1,347

Long-term debt, less unamortized
 discount of $1 in both 2006 and 2007                         351           422
Deferred income taxes                                         133            56
Accrued pension and other postretirement benefits              78           123
Other liabilities                                              34            30
                                                           ---------------------
Total Liabilities                                           1,165         1,978
                                                           ---------------------
Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' Equity
- --------------------
Common Stock:
  Class A, voting, $0.15 par value
   (57,000,000 shares authorized;
    56,882,000 shares issued)                                   9             9
  Class B, nonvoting, $0.15 par value
   (100,000,000 shares authorized;
    69,188,000 shares issued)                                  10            10
Additional paid-in capital                                     47            64
Retained earnings                                           1,607         1,649
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
  Pension and other postretirement benefits adjustment         (5)          (99)
  Cumulative translation adjustment                            24            46
  Unrealized loss on cash flow hedge contracts                 (1)           (4)
Treasury stock, at cost
 (3,565,000 and 2,833,000 shares
  in 2006 and 2007, respectively)                            (128)         (102)
                                                           ---------------------
Total Stockholders' Equity                                  1,563         1,573
                                                           ---------------------
Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity                 $2,728        $3,551
                                                           =====================

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.





                                  Brown-Forman
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (Expressed in millions)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                                   2005      2006      2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net income                                         $ 308     $ 320     $ 389
   Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
    provided by (used for) operations:
      Gain on sale of investment in affiliate           (72)       --        --
      Net loss from discontinued operations              31        75        11
      Depreciation and amortization                      43        42        44
      Stock-based compensation expense                    7         9         8
      Deferred income taxes                              (3)      (33)       (7)
      Other                                               2        (2)      (11)
      Change in assets and liabilities, excluding
       the effects of businesses acquired or sold:
         Accounts receivable                             (3)      (21)      (47)
         Inventories                                    (27)      (37)      (41)
         Other current assets                            11        (7)       (9)
         Accounts payable and accrued expenses           54         3        14
         Accrued income taxes                            (6)        7       (20)
         Noncurrent assets and liabilities               10         5        18
   Net cash provided by (used for) operating
    activities of discontinued operations                41       (18)        6
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash provided by operating activities             396       343       355
                                                       -------------------------

Cash flows from investing activities:
   Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired       --        --    (1,045)
   Acquisition of distribution rights                    --        --       (25)
   Proceeds from sale of discontinued operations         --       205        12
   Proceeds from sale of investment in affiliate,
    net of disposal costs                                93        --        --
   Acquisition of minority interest in subsidiary       (64)       --        --
   Purchase of short-term investments                    --      (388)     (249)
   Sale of short-term investments                        --       228       323
   Additions to property, plant, and equipment          (44)      (51)      (58)
   Proceeds from sale of property, plant,
    and equipment                                        --         7        14
   Computer software expenditures                        (3)       --        (9)
   Trademark and patent expenditures                     (1)       (1)       --
   Net cash provided by (used for) investing
    activities of discontinued operations                 3        (3)       (1)
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash used for investing activities                (16)       (3)   (1,038)
                                                       -------------------------

Cash flows from financing activities:
   Net change in short-term borrowings                  (50)      225       178
   Proceeds from long-term debt                          --        --       421
   Repayment of long-term debt                           --      (280)       (2)
   Debt issuance costs                                   --        --        (2)
   Proceeds from exercise of stock options                9        19        27
   Excess tax benefits from stock options                 2         7         8
   Acquisition of treasury stock                         (3)       (3)       --
   Dividends paid                                      (111)     (128)     (143)
                                                       -------------------------
      Cash (used for) provided by
       financing activities                            (153)     (160)      487
                                                       -------------------------
Effect of exchange rate changes
 on cash and cash equivalents                            --        --         4
                                                       -------------------------

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents    227       180      (192)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year             68       295       475
                                                       -------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year                 $295      $475      $283
                                                       =========================

Supplemental disclosure of cash paid for:
   Interest                                            $ 21      $ 21      $ 32
   Income taxes                                        $174      $188      $205


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.




                                  Brown-Forman
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
           (Dollars expressed in millions, except per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                                   2005      2006      2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Class A Common Stock                                    $ 9       $ 9       $ 9

Class B Common Stock                                     10        10        10

Additional Paid-in Capital:
   Balance at beginning of year                          28        34        47
   Stock issued under compensation plans                 --        --         2
   Stock-based compensation expense                       7         8         6
   Adjustment for stock option exercises                 (3)       (3)        1
   Excess tax benefits from stock options                 2         8         8
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                                34        47        64
                                                    ----------------------------
Retained Earnings:
   Balance at beginning of year                       1,218     1,415     1,607
   Net income                                           308       320       389
   Cash dividends ($0.92, $1.05, and $1.165 per
    share in 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively)       (111)     (128)     (143)
   Special cash distribution payable to
    shareholders ($1.6533 per share in 2007)             --        --      (204)
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                             1,415     1,607     1,649
                                                    ----------------------------
Treasury Stock, at cost:
   Balance at beginning of year                        (156)     (147)     (128)
   Acquisition of treasury stock                         (3)       (3)       --
   Stock issued under compensation plans                 12        21        24
   Stock-based compensation expense                      --         1         2
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                              (147)     (128)     (102)
                                                    ----------------------------
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss):
   Balance at beginning of year                         (14)      (11)       18
   Net other comprehensive income                         3        29        19
   Adjustment to initially apply SFAS 158,
    net of tax of $60 (Note 12)                          --        --       (94)
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                               (11)       18       (57)
                                                    ----------------------------
Total Stockholders' Equity                           $1,310    $1,563    $1,573
                                                    ============================
Comprehensive Income:
   Net income                                          $308      $320      $389
   Other comprehensive income (loss):
      Foreign currency translation adjustment            11        (3)       22
      Pension liability adjustment, net of
       tax of $4, $(21), and $1 in 2005
       2006, and 2007, respectively                      (6)       33        (1)
      Amounts related to cash flow hedges:
         Reclassification to earnings,
          net of tax of $(2), $2, and $(2)
          in 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively           3        (4)        3
         Net gain (loss) on hedging instruments,
          net of tax of $3, $(2), and $3
          in 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively          (5)        3        (6)
                                                    ----------------------------
            Net other comprehensive income                3        29        18
                                                    ----------------------------
   Total Comprehensive Income                          $311      $349      $407
                                                    ============================

Class A Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands):
   Balance at beginning of year                      56,841    56,782    56,829
   Acquisition of treasury stock                        (59)       --        --
   Stock issued under compensation plans                 --        47        41
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                            56,782    56,829    56,870
                                                    ----------------------------
Class B Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands):
   Balance at beginning of year                      64,747    65,106    65,636
   Acquisition of treasury stock                         --       (91)       --
   Stock issued under compensation plans                359       621       731
                                                    ----------------------------
   Balance at end of year                            65,106    65,636    66,367
                                                    ----------------------------
Total Common Shares Outstanding (in thousands)      121,888   122,465   123,237
                                                    ============================

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
            (Dollars expressed in millions, except per share amounts)


1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES

We apply the  following  accounting  policies when  preparing  our  consolidated
financial  statements.  References  to "FASB"  are to the  Financial  Accounting
Standards  Board, the  private-sector  organization  that establishes  financial
accounting and reporting standards, including Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS).

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.  Our consolidated  financial statements include the
accounts of all wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries.  We use the equity
method to account  for  investments  in  affiliates  over which we can  exercise
significant  influence  (but not  control).  We carry all other  investments  in
affiliates at cost. We eliminate all intercompany transactions.

CASH EQUIVALENTS.  Cash equivalents  include bank demand deposits and all highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.

SHORT-TERM   INVESTMENTS.   Short-term   investments  consist  of  auction  rate
securities and  variable-rate  demand notes.  These  instruments  have long-term
underlying  maturities,  but have interest rates that are reset every 90 days or
less,  at which time they can  typically be purchased or sold,  which  creates a
highly liquid market for these instruments.  These investments are classified as
available-for-sale  and recorded at cost, which  approximates  fair value due to
the reset feature.

ALLOWANCE  FOR DOUBTFUL  ACCOUNTS.  We evaluate the  collectibility  of accounts
receivable based on a combination of factors. When we are aware of circumstances
that may impair a specific customer's ability to meet its financial obligations,
we record a specific  allowance to reduce the net  recognized  receivable to the
amount we reasonably believe will be collected.

INVENTORIES.  We  state  inventories  at the  lower  of  cost  or  market,  with
approximately  59% of consolidated  inventories  being valued using the last-in,
first-out  (LIFO)  method.  Other  inventories  are valued  using the  first-in,
first-out  (FIFO) method.  If the FIFO method had been used,  inventories  would
have  been  $121 and $125  higher  than  reported  at April  30,  2006 and 2007,
respectively. FIFO cost approximates current replacement cost.

Whiskey  must be  barrel-aged  for several  years,  so we bottle and sell only a
portion of our whiskey  inventory each year.  Following  industry  practice,  we
classify  all  barreled  whiskey as a current  asset.  We  include  warehousing,
insurance,  ad valorem taxes, and other carrying charges  applicable to barreled
whiskey in inventory costs.

We classify bulk wine and agave inventories as work in process.

PROPERTY,  PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT. We state property, plant, and equipment at cost
less  accumulated  depreciation.  We calculate  depreciation  on a straight-line
basis over the estimated  useful lives of the assets as follows:  20 to 40 years
for  buildings  and  improvements;  3 to  10  years  for  machinery,  equipment,
furniture, and fixtures; and 3 to 7 years for capitalized software costs.

We assess our property,  plant,  and equipment and other  long-lived  assets for
impairment  whenever  events  or  changes  in  circumstances  indicate  that the
carrying value of the asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Fair value is
determined  using  discounted  future cash flows,  with  consideration of market
values for similar  assets  when  available.  If the fair value of an  evaluated
asset is less than its book value, we write it down to its estimated fair value.

GOODWILL  AND  OTHER  INTANGIBLE  ASSETS.  We  assess  our  goodwill  and  other
intangible  assets for  impairment  at least  annually.  If the fair value of an
evaluated  asset is less than its book value,  the asset is written  down to its
estimated  fair value.  Fair value is determined  using  discounted  future cash
flows, with consideration of market values for similar assets when available.

FOREIGN  CURRENCY  TRANSLATION.  The U.S. dollar is the functional  currency for
most of our consolidated operations.  For those operations,  we report all gains
and losses from  foreign  currency  transactions  in current  income.  The local
currency is the  functional  currency  for some  foreign  operations.  For those
investments,  we  report  cumulative  translation  effects  as  a  component  of
accumulated  other  comprehensive  income (loss),  a component of  stockholders'
equity.

REVENUE  RECOGNITION.  We recognize  revenue when title and risk of loss pass to
the  customer,  which  typically is at the time the product is shipped.  Certain
sales contain customer acceptance provisions that grant a right of return on the
basis of either subjective criteria or specified objective criteria.  Revenue is
recorded net of the estimated cost of sales returns and allowances.

COST OF  SALES.  Cost of  sales  includes  the  costs of  receiving,  producing,
inspecting, warehousing, insuring, and shipping goods sold during the period.

SHIPPING  AND  HANDLING  FEES AND COSTS.  We report  the  amounts we bill to our
customers  for shipping  and  handling as net sales,  and we report the costs we
incur for shipping and handling as cost of sales.

ADVERTISING  COSTS. We expense the costs of advertising during the year in which
the advertisements first take place.

SALES  DISCOUNTS.  Sales  discounts,  which are  recorded as a reduction  of net
sales, totaled $119, $157, and $242 for 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively.

SELLING,   GENERAL,   AND  ADMINISTRATIVE   EXPENSES.   Selling,   general,  and
administrative  expenses  include  the costs  associated  with our sales  force,
administrative  staff  and  facilities,   and  other  expenses  related  to  the
non-manufacturing functions of our business.

EARNINGS PER SHARE.  Basic earnings per share is based upon the weighted average
number of common  shares  outstanding  during the period.  Diluted  earnings per
share includes the dilutive effect of stock-based compensation awards, including
stock options,  stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SSARs),  and non-vested
restricted stock.



The following table presents  information  concerning basic and diluted earnings
per share:

Year Ended April 30,                                 2005       2006       2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Basic and diluted net income (loss):
   Continuing operations                             $339       $395       $400
   Discontinued operations                            (31)       (75)       (11)
                                                  ------------------------------
      Total                                          $308       $320       $389
                                                  ==============================

Share data (in thousands):
   Basic average common shares outstanding        121,746    122,094    122,868
   Dilutive effect of non-vested restricted stock      12         31         59
   Dilutive effect of stock options and SSARs         749      1,314      1,274
                                                  ------------------------------
      Diluted average common shares outstanding   122,507    123,439    124,201
                                                  ==============================

Basic earnings (loss) per share:
   Continuing operations                           $2.788     $3.239     $3.257
   Discontinued operations                         (0.256)    (0.615)    (0.087)
                                                  ------------------------------
      Total                                        $2.532     $2.624     $3.170
                                                  ==============================

Diluted earnings (loss) per share:
   Continuing operations                           $2.772     $3.204     $3.222
   Discontinued operations                         (0.255)    (0.608)    (0.086)
                                                  ------------------------------
      Total                                        $2.517     $2.596     $3.136
                                                  ==============================


STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION.  In  December  2004,  the FASB  issued  SFAS  123(R),
"Share-Based  Payment,"  which  requires  companies to expense the fair value of
stock  options  and other forms of  stock-based  compensation.  We adopted  SFAS
123(R) during fiscal 2005 by  retroactively  adjusting our financial  statements
for all periods  since fiscal  1997,  when we first began  granting  stock-based
compensation subject to SFAS 123(R).

Our  stock-based  compensation  plan requires that we purchase shares to satisfy
stock-based  compensation  requirements,  thereby  avoiding  future  dilution of
earnings that would occur from issuing  additional  shares.  We acquire treasury
shares from time to time in  anticipation  of these  requirements.  We intend to
hold enough  treasury  stock so that the number of diluted  shares never exceeds
the original  number of shares  outstanding at the inception of the  stock-based
compensation  plan (as adjusted for any share issuances  unrelated to the plan).
The  extent to which the number of diluted  shares  exceeds  the number of basic
shares is  determined  by how much our stock  price  has  appreciated  since the
stock-based  compensation  was awarded,  not by how many treasury shares we have
acquired.

ESTIMATES.  To prepare financial statements that conform with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  our management must make informed estimates that affect
how we report revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities,  including contingent
assets and  liabilities.  Actual  results could (and probably  will) differ from
these estimates.

RECENT ACCOUNTING  PRONOUNCEMENTS.  In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation
No. 48,  "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109" (FIN 48), which  clarifies the accounting for  uncertainty in
tax positions.  This interpretation  requires that we recognize in our financial
statements the impact of a tax position if that position is more likely than not
to be sustained on audit,  based on the technical  merits of the  position.  The
provisions  of FIN 48 become  effective  as of the  beginning of our 2008 fiscal
year, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting  principle recorded
as an adjustment to opening retained earnings.  We do not expect our adoption of
FIN 48 to affect our financial statements materially.

In September  2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157, "Fair Value  Measurements,"  which
defines  fair value,  establishes  a framework  for  measuring  fair value,  and
expands  disclosures about fair value  measurements.  The provisions of SFAS 157
become  effective as of the  beginning of our 2009 fiscal year. We are currently
evaluating the impact that SFAS 157 will have on our financial statements.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial  Liabilities,  including an amendment of FASB Statement No.
115." SFAS 159 permits companies to choose to measure many financial instruments
and  certain  other  items at fair value that are not  currently  required to be
measured at fair value and establishes  presentation and disclosure requirements
designed to  facilitate  comparisons  between  companies  that choose  different
measurement  attributes  for  similar  types  of  assets  and  liabilities.  The
provisions  of SFAS 159 become  effective as of the beginning of our 2009 fiscal
year.  We are  currently  evaluating  the impact  that SFAS 159 will have on our
financial statements.

2.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

We sold our wholly-owned subsidiary Lenox, Inc. ("Lenox") during fiscal 2006. In
connection with the sale, we recognized a non-cash  impairment  charge of $60 in
July 2005. The impairment charge represented the excess of the carrying value of
the net  assets  sold  over  the  expected  sales  proceeds.  We  also  incurred
transaction  costs  related  to the sale,  including  legal,  tax and  actuarial
expenses, transaction success payments, and investment banking fees.

Lenox's  results of operations and the impairment  charge and other  transaction
costs have been classified as discontinued  operations,  net of income taxes, in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2005 and 2006.

After the sale of Lenox,  we retained  ownership  of Brooks & Bentley,  a former
subsidiary of Lenox, located in the U.K. We sold Brooks & Bentley in 2007. After
reviewing  various  strategic  alternatives,   we  also  sold  our  wholly-owned
subsidiary,  Hartmann,  Inc. ("Hartmann") in 2007.  Accordingly,  the assets and
liabilities  of  Brooks  &  Bentley  and  Hartmann  that  were  sold in 2007 are
classified as held for sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of
April 30, 2006,  and their  operating  results are  classified  as  discontinued
operations  in the  accompanying  consolidated  statements  of  operations.  The
results of discontinued  operations for 2007 include a $9 impairment charge. The
majority of this impairment relates to the decision made in 2007 by our Board of
Directors  to sell  Hartmann  and to focus our efforts  entirely on our beverage
business. The $7 pre-tax impairment charge associated with Hartmann consisted of
a goodwill  impairment of $4 and an impairment charge of $3 that represented the
excess of the  carrying  value of the net  assets  to be sold over the  expected
sales proceeds, net of estimated costs to sell.



Before we decided to sell Hartmann, no impairment charge was recorded because we
believed its operations would generate sufficient future cash flows to enable us
to fully recover its carrying amount. The decision to sell Hartmann reflects the
Board's  opinion that the sum of the price to be obtained  from the sale and the
strategic value of focusing  entirely on our beverage  business would be greater
than the value of continuing to operate Hartmann.

There was also a $2  pre-tax  impairment  charge  recorded  in 2007 for Brooks &
Bentley. This impairment charge reflected a revision to its estimated fair value
and costs to sell, based on the negotiations that resulted in the sale of Brooks
& Bentley.

A summary of discontinued operations follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                             2005         2006         2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales                                       $ 534        $ 166        $  50
Operating expenses                               (524)        (178)         (53)
Impairment charge                                 (37)         (60)          (9)
Transaction costs                                  --          (10)          (1)
                                                --------------------------------
   Loss before income taxes                       (27)         (82)         (13)

Income tax (expense) benefit                       (4)           7            2
                                                --------------------------------
   Net loss from discontinued operations        $ (31)       $ (75)       $ (11)
                                                ================================


3.  ACQUISITIONS

We have  completed the  following  acquisitions  over the past three years.  The
operating  results  of each  acquired  entity  have been  consolidated  with our
financial statements since their respective acquisition dates.  Consolidated pro
forma operating results would not have been materially different from the actual
amounts reported.

FINLANDIA  VODKA.  In December 2004, we acquired the remaining  capital stock of
Finlandia  Vodka Worldwide Ltd. (FVW) that we did not already own from the Altia
Corporation  of Finland  for $64.  The value of FVW  consists  primarily  of the
Finlandia brand name,  which has an indefinite  useful life. As a result of this
transaction,  we allocated an additional $80 to the Finlandia  brand name (which
was  partially  offset by a  deferred  income  tax  liability  of $21) and $5 to
various other net assets.

CHAMBORD LIQUEUR.  In May 2006, we completed the acquisition of Chambord liqueur
and all related assets from Chatam International  Incorporated and its operating
subsidiary,  Charles Jacquin et Cie Inc., for $251, including transaction costs.
We believe that  Chambord,  which is  positioned  in the  super-premium  spirits
category,  fits well with our approach to brand building.  With the close of the
transaction, we acquired the Chambord trademark, French manufacturing operations
where the brand is  produced,  and the  services  of  employees  who work at the
facility.

The acquisition  consisted primarily of the Chambord brand name and goodwill, to
which we  allocated  $116  and $127 of the  purchase  price,  respectively.  The
transaction  provides valuable  strategic  opportunities,  which we believe will
enable  us  to  leverage  our  strong  brand-building  skills  and  our  current
distribution  network,  allowing us to grow sales of this  super-premium  priced
product  around the world.  We also  believe that the brand will provide us with
additional distributor influence and that it complements several other brands in
our portfolio, allowing for cross-selling,  merchandising,  and promotion, which
we expect will lead to overall increased sales.  These factors  contributed to a
purchase price that resulted in the recognition of $127 of goodwill.  The entire
amount allocated to goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes.

CASA HERRADURA. In January 2007, we completed the acquisition contemplated in an
August 2006 asset purchase  agreement among Jose Guillermo Romo de la Pena, Luis
Pedro Pablo Romo de la Pena,  Grupo  Industrial  Herradura,  S.A. de C.V. ("Casa
Herradura"),   certain  of  their   respective   affiliates,   Brown-Forman  and
Brown-Forman  Tequila Mexico,  S. de R.L. de C.V., a subsidiary of Brown-Forman.
We acquired substantially all of the assets of Casa Herradura and its affiliates
relating  to its  tequila  business,  including  the  Herradura  and el  Jimador
tequilas,  the New-Mix  tequila-based  ready-to-drink brand, the trade names and
trademarks  associated  with such brands and other acquired  brands,  as well as
related  production  facilities  and  the  sales,   marketing  and  distribution
organization in Mexico.

We believe this acquisition  provides us with several  strategic  opportunities,
including  the  ownership of two strong,  established  brands,  Herradura and el
Jimador, which compete at the super-premium and premium levels, respectively, in
the world's  largest  tequila  markets - the U.S. and Mexico.  In  addition,  we
believe the growth  potential for these brands is very  attractive  based on the
fact  that  tequila  is one of the  fastest-growing  spirits  category  in  both
markets. We expect these brands will help advance our entire business within the
Hispanic  population,  which is the fastest growing  demographic  segment in the
U.S.,  and increase our  participation  in the popular  cocktail  culture of the
U.S., where the tequila-based  margarita is the most frequently called-for mixed
drink.  We also  believe  the  infrastructure  in  Mexico  will give us a strong
business platform to advance our portfolio in an important  international market
where we have  historically had very little presence.  We expect to leverage our
current  distribution  network  outside of Mexico,  allowing us to grow sales of
these  super-premium  and premium  brands in the U.S.  and to expand the brands'
presence in the rest of the world,  where the  opportunities  for growth  appear
numerous given the very limited  distribution of tequila.  Finally, by expanding
and  diversifying  our  portfolio,  we believe that these brands will provide us
with additional  clout with our  distributors  and that the brands'  performance
will benefit significantly from our strong brand-building  skills. These factors
contributed to a purchase price that resulted in the recognition of the goodwill
shown on the next page.



The cost of the acquisition was $794,  including  transaction  costs of $16. The
purchase  price  is  subject  to  a  customary   post-closing   working  capital
adjustment.  The cost of the acquisition has been preliminarily  allocated based
on management's estimates and independent appraisals as follows:


Accounts receivable                                      $  33
Inventories                                                138
Other current assets                                        47
Property, plant, and equipment                              65
Deferred income taxes                                        6
Goodwill                                                   346
Other intangible assets                                    215
                                                          ----
   Total assets                                            850
                                                          ----

Accounts payable and accrued expenses                       54
Long-term debt                                               1
Other noncurrent liabilities                                 1
                                                          ----
   Total liabilities                                        56
                                                          ----
   Net assets acquired                                    $794
                                                          ====

A third-party  valuation  specialist  performed a  preliminary  valuation of the
acquired  intangible  assets  to  help  us  determine  the  fair  value  of each
identifiable  intangible  asset.  Standard  valuation  procedures  were  used in
determining  the fair value of the acquired  intangible  assets.  The  following
table  summarizes the identified  intangible asset categories and their weighted
average amortization period, where applicable:

                                         Weighted Average
                                       Amortization Period       Fair Value

Finite-lived intangible assets:
 Customer relationships                      38 years                $4

Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
 Trademarks and brand names                                        $211
 Goodwill                                                           346


The initial  allocation of the cost of the  acquisition was based on preliminary
estimates  and may be revised as asset  valuations  are  finalized  and  further
information is obtained on the fair value of liabilities. The entire preliminary
goodwill amount of $346 is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.

We financed the acquisition with  approximately  $114 of cash and  approximately
$680 of commercial paper, $400 of which was subsequently replaced with long-term
debt.


4.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

The following  table shows the changes in the amounts  recorded as goodwill over
the past two years:

   Balance as of April 30, 2005                   $189
   Consolidation of Swift & Moore (Note 17)          5
   Foreign currency translation adjustment          (2)
                                                  ----
   Balance as of April 30, 2006                    192
   Acquisition of Chambord (Note 3)                127
   Acquisition of Casa Herradura (Note 3)          346
   Foreign currency translation adjustment           5
                                                  ----
   Balance as of April 30, 2007                   $670
                                                  ====

As of April 30, 2006, our other  intangible  assets  consisted of trademarks and
brand names,  with  indefinite  useful  lives.  As of April 30, 2007,  our other
intangible assets consisted of:

                                            Gross Carrying        Accumulated
                                                Amount            Amortization

Finite-lived intangible assets:
   Customer relationships                        $  4                $ --
   Distribution rights                             25                  (2)
                                                 ----                -----
                                                 $ 29                $ (2)
                                                 ====                =====
Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
   Trademarks and brand names                    $657                  --


Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $0 in 2006 and $2 in 2007.
Amortization  expense of approximately $5 is projected for each of the next five
fiscal years. However,  actual amounts of future amortization expense may differ
due to  additional  intangible  asset  acquisitions,  impairment  of  intangible
assets,   accelerated   amortization  of  intangible   assets,   purchase  price
reallocations, and other events.


5. COMMITMENTS

We have  contracted  with  various  growers  and  wineries to supply some of our
future grape and bulk wine requirements. Many of these contracts call for prices
to be determined by market  conditions,  but some contracts  provide for minimum
purchase  prices that may exceed market  prices.  We have  purchase  obligations
related to these  contracts  of $29 in 2008,  $19 in 2009,  $14 in 2010,  $12 in
2011, $10 in 2012, and $20 after 2012.

We also have  contracts  for the  purchase  of agave,  which is used to  produce
tequila.  These  contracts  provide for prices to be determined  based on market
conditions at the time of harvest, which although not specified,  is expected to
occur over the next ten years.  As of April 30,  2007,  based on current  market
prices, obligations under these contracts totaled $26.

We made rental payments for real estate,  vehicles,  and office,  computer,  and
manufacturing  equipment under operating leases of $15 in 2005, $16 in 2006, and
$19 in 2007. We have  commitments  related to minimum  lease  payments of $13 in
2008, $8 in 2009, $6 in 2010, $4 in 2011, $3 in 2012, and $10 after 2012.




6. CREDIT FACILITIES

We have a  committed  revolving  credit  agreement  with  various  domestic  and
international  banks for $800 that expires in fiscal 2012. Its most  restrictive
covenant requires that our consolidated  EBITDA (as defined in the agreement) to
consolidated  interest  expense not be less than a ratio of 3 to 1. At April 30,
2007, we were within this covenant's parameters.  At April 30, 2007, we also had
the  ability to issue an  undetermined  amount of debt  securities  under an SEC
shelf registration filed in January 2007.


7. DEBT

Our long-term debt consisted of the following:

April 30,                                              2006           2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3.0% notes, due in fiscal 2008                         $349           $350
Variable-rate notes, due in fiscal 2010                  --            150
5.2% notes, due in fiscal 2012                           --            250
Other                                                     2             26
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        351            776
Less current portion                                     --            354
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $351           $422
                                                 ===============================

Debt payments  required over the next five fiscal years consist of $354 in 2008,
$4 in 2009,  $154 in 2010, $3 in 2011,  and $253 in 2012.  The weighted  average
interest rate on the variable-rate notes was 5.4% at April 30, 2007. In addition
to long-term  debt,  we had  short-term  borrowings  outstanding  with  weighted
average   interest  rates  of  5.0%  and  5.3%  at  April  30,  2006  and  2007,
respectively.


8. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

We use foreign currency options and forward contracts as protection  against the
risk that the eventual  U.S.  dollar cash flows  resulting  from our  forecasted
sales  and  purchases  of goods  and  services  in  foreign  currencies  will be
adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. In general,  average maturities
are  less  than one  year,  although  at April  30,  2007,  we had some  forward
contracts with maturities  approaching two years. We designate these  derivative
financial instruments as cash flow hedges.

We  formally  assess  (both at  inception  and at least  quarterly)  whether the
derivative financial instruments are effective at offsetting changes in the cash
flows  of  the  hedged  transactions.  We  defer  the  effective  portion  of  a
derivative's  change in fair value in  Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Income
(Loss) until the underlying  hedged  transaction  is recognized in earnings.  We
recognize any  ineffective  portion of the change in fair value  immediately  in
earnings.  No material  gains or losses were  recognized  in earnings due to the
ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges.

We had  outstanding  foreign  currency  options and forward  contracts,  hedging
primarily  British  pound,  Australian  dollar,  euro,  and South  African  rand
revenues,  with  notional  amounts  totaling $205 and $406 at April 30, 2006 and
2007, respectively. At April 30, 2007, we also had forward contracts hedging the
fair  value  of a  Mexican  peso-denominated  intercompany  receivable,  with  a
notional value of approximately  $120. Our credit exposure is, however,  limited
to the contracts' fair value (see Note 9) rather than their notional amounts. We
minimize credit exposure by entering into foreign  currency  contracts only with
major financial institutions that have earned investment-grade credit ratings.


9. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair value of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and short-term
borrowings approximates the carrying amount due to the short maturities of these
instruments.

We estimate the fair value of long-term debt using  discounted  cash flows based
on our  incremental  borrowing rates for similar debt. The fair value of foreign
currency  contracts is based on quoted market  prices.  A comparison of the fair
values and carrying amounts of these instruments is as follows:


April 30,                              2006                       2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                Carrying      Fair         Carrying       Fair
                                 Amount       Value         Amount       Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets:
   Cash and cash equivalents      $475        $475           $283         $283
   Short-term investments          160         160             86           86

Liabilities:
   Foreign currency contracts        1           1              4            4
   Short-term borrowings           225         225            401          401
   Current portion of
    long-term debt                  --          --            354          347
   Long-term debt                  351         338            422          422



10.  BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

Supplemental balance sheet information is as follows:


April 30,                                              2006           2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Property, plant, and equipment:
   Land                                                $ 78           $ 88
   Buildings                                            290            323
   Equipment                                            403            446
   Construction in process                               23             27
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        794            884
   Less accumulated depreciation                        369            378
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $425           $506
                                                 ===============================

Accounts payable and accrued expenses:
   Accounts payable, trade                             $ 89           $118
   Accrued expenses:
      Advertising                                        62             65
      Compensation and commissions                       84             93
      Excise and other non-income taxes                  27             41
      Self-insurance claims                               8             10
      Postretirement benefits                            --              4
      Interest                                            1              3
      Other                                              18             27
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                        200            243
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                       $289           $361
                                                 ===============================



11. INCOME TAXES

We incur income  taxes on the  earnings of our domestic and foreign  operations.
The following  table,  based on the locations of the taxable entities from which
sales were  derived  (rather  than the  location  of  customers),  presents  the
domestic and foreign components of our income before income taxes:

Year Ended April 30,                        2005          2006           2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States                               $350          $395           $489
Foreign                                      154           164             97
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            $504          $559           $586
                                            ====================================

The  income  shown  above  was  determined  according  to  financial  accounting
standards.  Because those standards  sometimes differ from the tax rules used to
calculate  taxable  income,  there are  differences  between:  (a) the amount of
taxable income and pretax  financial income for a year; and (b) the tax bases of
assets or liabilities and their amounts as recorded in our financial statements.
As a result,  we recognize a current tax liability for the estimated  income tax
payable on the current tax return,  and  deferred  tax  liabilities  (income tax
payable on income that will be  recognized  on future tax  returns) and deferred
tax assets (income tax refunds from deductions that will be recognized on future
tax returns)  for the  estimated  effects of the  differences  mentioned  above.
Deferred tax assets and  liabilities as of the end of each of the last two years
were as follows:

April 30,                                              2006           2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Postretirement and other benefits                   $  2           $ 71
   Accrued liabilities and other                          9              9
   Inventories                                           64             62
   Loss carryforwards                                    21             46
   Valuation allowance                                  (21)           (32)
                                             -----------------------------------
   Total deferred tax assets, net                        75            156
                                             -----------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Trademarks and brand names                           (85)           (96)
   Property, plant, and equipment                       (43)           (40)
                                             -----------------------------------
   Total deferred tax liabilities                      (128)          (136)
                                             -----------------------------------
Net deferred tax (liability) asset                     $(53)          $ 20
                                             ===================================

The $32  valuation  allowance  at April 30, 2007,  relates  primarily to the $23
capital loss carryforward  associated with the sale of Lenox during fiscal 2006.
Currently,  we are unaware of any  transaction  that will permit the use of this
carryforward,  which expires in fiscal 2011. The remaining  valuation  allowance
relates to various other operating and capital loss carryforwards,  which expire
between fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2018.

Deferred tax liabilities were not provided on undistributed  earnings of certain
foreign  subsidiaries  ($150 and $230 at April 30, 2006 and 2007,  respectively)
because we expect these  undistributed  earnings to be  reinvested  indefinitely
overseas.  If  these  amounts  were  not  considered   permanently   reinvested,
additional deferred tax liabilities of approximately $26 and $41 would have been
provided as of April 30, 2006 and 2007, respectively.

The 2004  American  Jobs  Creation  Act (the "Act")  provided a special one time
opportunity  to deduct from  taxable  income 85% of certain  qualifying  foreign
dividends repatriated to the U.S. from controlled foreign corporations,  subject
to various limitations and restrictions,  including qualified U.S.  reinvestment
of such  earnings.  During 2006, we  repatriated  $277 of foreign  earnings that
represented  qualified dividends under the Act. This reduced our deferred income
tax liability related to undistributed foreign earnings by $17.

Total income tax expense for a year includes the tax associated with the current
tax  return  ("current  tax  expense")  and the change in the net  deferred  tax
liability  ("deferred  tax  expense").  Total income tax expense for each of the
last three years was as follows:


Year Ended April 30,                        2005          2006          2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current:
   Federal                                  $130          $153          $141
   Foreign                                    19            16            27
   State and local                            19            19            16
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             168           188           184
                                            ------------------------------------

Deferred:
   Federal                                     4           (11)            5
   Foreign                                    (1)           (8)            1
   State and local                            (6)           (5)           (4)
                                            ------------------------------------
                                              (3)          (24)            2
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            $165          $164          $186
                                            ====================================

Our consolidated  effective tax rate may differ from current statutory rates due
to the  recognition  of  amounts  for  events or  transactions  that have no tax
consequences.  The  following  table  reconciles  our  effective tax rate to the
federal statutory tax rate in the U.S.:

                                             Percent of Income Before Taxes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year Ended April 30,                        2005          2006           2006
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S federal statutory rate                  35.0%         35.0%          35.0%
State taxes, net of U.S.
 federal tax benefit                         1.2           1.3            1.3
Income taxed at other than U.S.
 federal statutory rate                     (1.9)         (1.5)          (1.5)
Tax benefit from export sales               (2.0)         (1.6)          (1.0)
Tax benefit from U.S. manufacturing           --          (0.7)          (0.7)
Impairment charges                           0.2            --             --
Capital loss benefit                          --          (2.8)            --
Other, net                                   0.1          (0.4)          (1.4)
                                           -------------------------------------
Effective rate                              32.6%         29.3%          31.7%
                                           =====================================



12. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

We sponsor various defined benefit pension plans as well as postretirement plans
providing retiree health care and retiree life insurance benefits. The following
discussion  provides  information about our obligations  related to these plans,
the assets dedicated to meeting the  obligations,  and the amounts we recognized
in our  financial  statements as a result of  sponsoring  these plans.  We use a
measurement  date of January 31 to determine the amounts of the plan obligations
and assets presented below.

OBLIGATIONS. We provide eligible employees with pension and other postretirement
benefits based on such factors as years of service and compensation level during
employment.  The pension obligation shown below ("projected benefit obligation")
consists  of: (a) benefits  earned by employees to date based on current  salary
levels ("accumulated  benefit  obligation");  and (b) benefits to be received by
the employees as a result of expected future salary  increases.  (The obligation
for  medical  and life  insurance  benefits  is not  affected  by future  salary
increases).  This table shows how the present  value of our  obligation  changed
during each of the last two years.

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2006      2007        2006      2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Obligation at beginning of year           $386      $414        $ 47      $ 53
Service cost                                13        13           1         1
Interest cost                               22        24           3         3
Actuarial loss                               7        14           5        --
Plan amendments                              1        --          --        --
Retiree contributions                       --        --           1         1
Benefits paid                              (15)      (16)         (4)       (4)
Effect of Hartmann sale                     --        (1)         --        (1)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Obligation at end of year                 $414      $448        $ 53      $ 53
                                        ========================================

Service cost represents the present value of the benefits  attributed to service
rendered by  employees  during the year.  Interest  cost is the  increase in the
present  value of the  obligation  due to the  passage of time.  Actuarial  loss
(gain)  is the  change  in value of the  obligation  resulting  from  experience
different  from that assumed or from a change in an actuarial  assumption.  (The
actuarial assumptions used are discussed at the end of this note).

As shown in the previous  table,  our pension and other  postretirement  benefit
obligations   were  reduced  by  benefit   payments  in  2007  of  $16  and  $4,
respectively. Expected benefit payments over the next ten years are as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2008                                           $ 17                  $ 3
2009                                             19                    3
2010                                             20                    3
2011                                             22                    3
2012                                             23                    3
2013-2017                                       141                   16


ASSETS.  We  specifically  invest  certain  assets in order to fund our  pension
benefit  obligations.  Our investment  goal is to earn a total return that, over
time,  will grow  assets  sufficiently  to fund our  plans'  liabilities,  after
providing  appropriate  levels of contributions  and accepting prudent levels of
investment  risk.  To achieve this goal,  plan assets are invested  primarily in
funds or portfolios of funds actively  managed by outside  managers.  Investment
risk is  managed by  company  policies  that  require  diversification  of asset
classes,  manager  styles,  and  individual  holdings.  We measure  and  monitor
investment risk through quarterly and annual performance  reviews,  and periodic
asset/liability studies.

Asset allocation is the most important method for achieving our investment goals
and is based on our assessment of the plans' long-term return objectives and the
appropriate balances needed for liquidity,  stability, and diversification.  The
allocation  of our  pension  plan  assets at fair value on January  31, 2006 and
2007, and the target allocation for 2008, by asset category, are as follows:


                                                     Asset Allocation
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          Actual          Actual          Target
                                           2006            2007            2008
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity securities                           71%             71%             70%
Debt securities                             16              15              15
Real estate                                  6               6               5
Other                                        7               8              10
                                        ----------------------------------------
Total                                      100%            100%            100%
                                        ========================================

This table shows how the fair value of the pension  plan assets  changed  during
each of the last two years. (We do not have assets set aside for  postretirement
medical or life insurance benefits).

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2006      2007        2006      2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value at beginning of year           $324      $368        $ --      $ --
Actual return on plan assets                41        42          --        --
Retiree contributions                       --        --           1         1
Company contributions                       18         2           3         3
Benefits paid                              (15)      (16)         (4)       (4)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Fair value at end of year                 $368      $396        $ --      $ --
                                        ========================================



Consistent  with  our  funding  policy,  we  expect  to  contribute  $3  to  our
postretirement  medical and life insurance  benefit plans in 2008.  While we may
decide to contribute  more, we currently  expect to contribute $3 to our pension
plans in 2008.

FUNDED STATUS.  The funded status of a plan refers to the difference between its
assets and its obligations. Prior to our adoption of SFAS 158 (discussed below),
this amount differed from the amount recorded as a net asset  (liability) on the
balance sheet. This table shows the funded status of our plans.

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2006      2007         2006     2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Assets                                   $ 368     $ 396         $ --     $ --
Obligations                               (414)     (448)         (53)     (53)
Assets contributed
 after measurement date                      1        --            1        1
                                          --------------------------------------
Funded status                            $ (45)    $ (52)        $(52)    $(52)
                                          ======================================

The net asset (liability) is recorded on the balance sheet as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2006      2007        2006      2005
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid pension cost                      $146      $ 23        $ --      $ --
Other assets                                 1        --          --        --
Accounts payable and accrued expenses       --        (1)         --        (3)
Accrued postretirement benefits            (37)      (74)        (41)      (49)
                                          --------------------------------------
Net asset (liability)                     $110      $(52)       $(41)     $(52)
                                          ======================================

Accumulated other comprehensive loss:
   Net actuarial loss                     $ --      $148         $ --     $  9
   Prior service cost                       --         5           --        1
   Minimum pension liability adjustment      7        --           --       --
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          $  7      $153         $ --     $ 10
                                          ======================================

On April 30,  2007,  we adopted  SFAS 158,  "Employer's  Accounting  for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans - an amendment of FASB Statements
No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)."  SFAS 158  requires  that we recognize  the funded
status of our  pension  and other  postretirement  benefit  plans as an asset or
liability on our balance sheet.  Subsequent changes in the funded status will be
recognized  through  comprehensive  income in the year in which they occur. SFAS
158 also requires that,  beginning in 2009, the assumptions  used to measure our
annual pension and other postretirement benefit expenses be determined as of the
balance sheet date,  and all plan assets and  liabilities be reported as of that
date. In accordance with SFAS 158, prior year amounts have not been adjusted.

The following table  illustrates the incremental  effect of applying SFAS 158 on
individual line items on our balance sheet as of April 30, 2007:

                                       Before                           After
                                     Application                     Application
                                     of SFAS 158     Adjustments     of SFAS 158
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid pension cost                   $  134          $(111)           $   23
Total assets                            3,662           (111)            3,551
Accounts payable and
 accrued expenses                         357              4               361
Accrued postretirement benefits            84             39               123
Deferred income taxes                     116            (60)               56
Total liabilities                       1,995            (17)            1,978
Accumulated other
 comprehensive gain (loss)                 37            (94)              (57)
Total stockholders' equity              1,667            (94)            1,573
Total liabilities and
 stockholders' equity                   3,662           (111)            3,551


This  table  compares  our  pension  plans  that have  assets in excess of their
accumulated  benefit  obligations  with those  whose  assets are less than their
obligations. (As discussed above, we have no assets set aside for postretirement
medical or life insurance benefits).

                                                   Accumulated       Projected
                                                    Benefit           Benefit
                                 Plan Assets       Obligation        Obligation
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 2006   2006       2006   2007      2006   2007
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Plans with assets in
 excess of accumulated
 benefit obligation              $368   $396       $329   $346      $368   $396
Plans with accumulated
 benefit obligation in
 excess of assets                  --     --         37     42        46     52
                                ------------------------------------------------
Total                            $368   $396       $366   $388      $414   $448
                                ================================================



PENSION  EXPENSE.  This  table  shows  the  components  of the  pension  expense
recognized  during  each of the last  three  years.  The  amount  for each  year
includes  amortization  of  the  prior  service  cost  and  net  loss  that  was
unrecognized as of the beginning of the year.

                                                     Pension Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           2005            2006            2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                               $ 11            $ 13            $ 13
Interest cost                                20              22              24
Expected return on plan assets              (32)            (32)            (32)
Amortization of:
   Unrecognized prior service cost            1               1               1
   Unrecognized net loss                      3               8              12
                                       -----------------------------------------
Net expense                                $  3            $ 12            $ 18
                                       =========================================

The prior service cost  represents the cost of retroactive  benefits  granted in
plan  amendments  and is  amortized  on a  straight-line  basis over the average
remaining service period of the employees expected to receive the benefits.  The
net loss results from experience different from that assumed or from a change in
actuarial  assumptions,  and is amortized  over at least that same  period.  The
estimated  amount of prior service cost and net loss that will be amortized from
accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2008 is $1 and $12,
respectively.

The pension  expense  recorded  during the year is estimated at the beginning of
the year. As a result, the amount is calculated using an expected return on plan
assets rather than the actual return. The difference between actual and expected
returns is included in the unrecognized net loss at the end of the year.

OTHER  POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFIT  EXPENSE.  This table shows the components of the
postretirement  medical and life  insurance  benefit  expense that we recognized
during each of the last three years.

                                           Medical and Life Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           2005            2006            2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                                $1              $1              $1
Interest cost                                3               3               3
                                       -----------------------------------------
Net expense                                 $4              $4              $4
                                       =========================================

ASSUMPTIONS  AND  SENSITIVITY.  We use  various  assumptions  to  determine  the
obligations and expense related to our pension and other postretirement  benefit
plans. The assumptions used in computing  benefit plan obligations as of the end
of the last two years were as follows:

                                             Pension           Medical and Life
                                             Benefits         Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                                2006      2007        2006      2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                             5.95      6.04        5.95      5.98
Rate of salary increase                   4.00      4.00         --        --
Expected return on plan assets            8.75      8.75         --        --


The assumptions  used in computing  benefit plan expense during each of the last
three years were as follows:

                                          Pension            Medical and Life
                                          Benefits          Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                          2005    2006    2007    2005    2006    2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                       6.00    5.80    5.95    6.00    5.80    5.95
Rate of salary increase             4.00    4.00    4.00     --      --      --
Expected return on plan assets      8.75    8.75    8.75     --      --      --


The discount  rate  represents  the interest rate used to discount the cash-flow
stream of benefit  payments to a net present  value as of the  current  date.  A
lower  assumed  discount  rate  increases  the  present  value  of  the  benefit
obligation.

The assumed rate of salary  increase  reflects the expected  annual  increase in
salaries as a result of inflation,  merit  increases,  and  promotions.  A lower
assumed rate decreases the present value of the benefit obligation.

The expected return on plan assets  represents the long-term rate of return that
we assume will be earned over the life of the pension  assets,  considering  the
distribution  of  those  assets  among  investment  categories  and the  related
historical rates of return.

The  assumed  health  care cost trend  rates as of the end of the last two years
were as follows:

                                         Medical and Life Insurance Benefits
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Percent                                       2006           2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year:
   Present rate before age 65                    11.0           10.0
   Present rate age 65 and after                 11.0           10.0




We project health care cost trend rates to decline gradually to 5.0% by 2012 and
to remain  level  after  that.  Assumed  health  care cost  trend  rates  have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for  postretirement  medical plans. A
one percentage point  increase/decrease  in assumed health care cost trend rates
would have increased/decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
as of April 30, 2007,  by $5 and the  aggregate  service and interest  costs for
2007 by $1.

SAVINGS PLANS. We also sponsor various defined  contribution  benefit plans that
in total  cover  substantially  all  employees.  Employees  can  make  voluntary
contributions in accordance with the provisions of their respective plans, which
includes a 401(k) tax deferral option.  We match a percentage of each employee's
contributions  in accordance  with the provisions of the plans.  We expensed $7,
$7, and $8 for matching contributions during 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively.


13. NET SALES INFORMATION

The following table presents net sales by product category:

                                   2005              2006              2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
   Spirits                       $1,824            $2,049            $2,425
   Wine                             371               363               381
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                 $2,195            $2,412            $2,806
                                 ===============================================

The following table presents net sales by geographic region:

                                   2005              2006              2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
   United States                 $1,316            $1,404            $1,498
   Europe                           637               709               816
   Other countries                  242               299               492
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                 $2,195            $2,412            $2,806
                                 ===============================================

Net sales are  attributed  to countries  based on where  customers  are located.
Long-lived assets located outside the United States are not significant.


14.  CONTINGENCIES

We operate in a litigious  environment,  and we are sued in the normal course of
business. Sometimes plaintiffs seek substantial damages. Significant judgment is
required in predicting the outcome of these suits and claims, many of which take
years to adjudicate. We accrue estimated costs for a contingency when we believe
that a loss is probable and we can make a reasonable  estimate of the loss,  and
adjust the accrual as appropriate to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.

A law firm has sued  Brown-Forman and many other  manufacturers and marketers of
spirits,  wines, and beer in a series of nine very similar class action lawsuits
seeking damages and injunctive relief from alleged marketing of beverage alcohol
to underage consumers.  The suits allege that the defendants engage in deceptive
and negligent marketing  practices  targeting underage  consumers.  They seek to
recover  on behalf of parents  those  funds  that  their  children  spent on the
illegal  purchase of alcohol as well as  disgorgement  of all  profits  from the
alleged illegal sales. We are vigorously defending these cases. Six of the suits
have been dismissed by trial court and are being  appealed.  Two cases have been
voluntarily withdrawn.  One is pending decision of a dismissal motion. We cannot
yet predict the outcome of these claims, including whether we will incur related
losses or the  amount of such  losses.  Since we cannot  estimate  the amount of
possible loss, no amounts have been accrued.  But an unfavorable result in these
or similar  class-action  lawsuits  could have a material  adverse impact on our
business.


15.  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

Under our 2004  Omnibus  Compensation  Plan  (the  "Plan"),  we can grant  stock
options and other  stock-based  incentive awards for a total of 5,946,000 shares
of common stock to eligible employees until July 22, 2014. As of April 30, 2007,
awards for 4,816,000 shares remain available for issuance under the Plan. Shares
delivered  to  employees  are limited by the Plan to shares that we purchase for
this purpose. No new shares may be issued.

We grant stock options and SSARs at an exercise  price of not less than the fair
value of the  underlying  stock on the grant date.  Except for the stock options
that expire on  September 1, 2007  (discussed  below),  stock  options and SSARs
granted under the Plan become  exercisable  after three years from the first day
of the  fiscal  year of grant and  expire  seven  years  after  that  date.  The
grant-date fair values of these awards granted during 2005,  2006, and 2007 were
$10.78, $12.59, and $16.46 per award,  respectively.  Fair values were estimated
using the Black-Scholes pricing model with the following assumptions:

                                      2005      2006      2007
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Risk-free interest rate               4.0%      4.0%      5.0%
Expected volatility                  24.0%     22.0%     16.9%
Expected dividend yield               1.9%      1.9%      1.8%
Expected life (years)                   6         6         6


On March  22,  2007,  our  Board  of  Directors  approved  the  distribution  to
shareholders of the $204 million in cash received (net of transaction fees) from
the sale of Lenox and Brooks & Bentley.  The  distribution  of $1.6533 per share
was made on May 10,  2007,  to  shareholders  of  record on April 5,  2007.  The
Internal  Revenue  Service has issued to us a private letter ruling which states
that the  special  distribution  will be  treated as a  distribution  in partial
liquidation pursuant to Sections 302(b)(4) and 302(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue
Code.

In connection with this special  distribution,  and pursuant to the terms of the
Plan,  the exercise  price and number of stock options and SSARs  outstanding on
the ex-distribution  date were adjusted in order to avoid the reduction in value
of those awards that would  otherwise  have  occurred as a result of the special
distribution.  The  following  information  has been  retroactively  restated to
reflect these adjustments.



In September 1999, we granted stock options with an exercise price of $48.78 per
share that became  exercisable  on May 1, 2006, and expire on September 1, 2007.
The fair value of these  options was $2.89 per option,  using the  Black-Scholes
pricing  model  and  assuming  a  risk-free  interest  rate  of  6.0%,  expected
volatility of 18.0%, an expected dividend yield of 2.2%, and an expected life of
eight years.  Approximately 418,000 of these options are outstanding as of April
30, 2007.

We also grant restricted  shares of common stock under the Plan. As of April 30,
2007, there are  approximately  122,000  restricted shares  outstanding,  with a
weighted-average  remaining restriction period of 3.4 years. The following table
summarizes restricted stock activity during 2007.

                                                     Weighted
                                 Restricted          Average
                                   Shares           Grant Date
                               (in thousands)       Fair Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Oustanding at May 1, 2006            81              $43.75
Granted                              41               61.70
                                    ---
Outstanding at April 30, 2007       122               49.79
                                    ===

The accompanying  statements of operations reflect  compensation expense related
to  stock-based  incentive  awards on a pre-tax basis of $7 in 2005, $8 in 2006,
and $8 in 2007,  partially offset by deferred income tax benefits of $3 in 2005,
$3 in 2006, and $3 in 2007.

A summary of stock option and SSAR activity under the Plan as of April 30, 2007,
and changes during the year then ended is presented below.



The total intrinsic value of options  exercised  during 2005, 2006, and 2007 was
$7, $23, and $26, respectively.

As of April 30,  2007,  there was $10 of total  unrecognized  compensation  cost
related to  nonvested  stock-based  compensation.  That cost is  expected  to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years.


16.  SALE OF INVESTMENT IN AFFILIATE

During 2005,  we sold our equity stake in  Glenmorangie  plc for proceeds of $93
(net of disposal costs), resulting in a pre-tax gain of $72.


17.  OTHER INCOME

In July 2005,  we  entered  into an  agreement  with LVMH Moet  Hennessey  Louis
Vuitton for the early  termination  of our  long-term  importing  and  marketing
agreements for Glenmorangie  products in the U.S., Canada, and certain countries
in Europe and Asia,  effective July 29, 2005. We received  approximately $14 for
the early termination,  which is included in other income for fiscal 2006 in the
accompanying consolidated statement of operations.

In January 2006, we received  proceeds of $25 as compensation  for Pernod Ricard
assuming  the  distribution  of its  brands  from Swift & Moore,  an  Australian
distribution  company  co-owned  by Pernod  Ricard  (following  its  purchase of
Allied-Domecq)  and us. This amount is recorded in other income for fiscal 2006.
Pernod  Ricard  surrendered  its  ownership  interest  in  Swift &  Moore  to us
effective  February 1, 2006,  resulting  in our  becoming  100% owner of Swift &
Moore as of that  date.  Swift & Moore,  which  is now  Brown-Forman  Australia,
continues to distribute our brands in Australia.

In January  2006,  we sold  winery  land and  buildings  in  California  for $7,
resulting in a gain of $5 that is included in other income for fiscal 2006.

In September  2006, we entered into an agreement with Gruppo Italiano Vini (GIV)
for the production of Bolla Italian wines. Under the agreement, we also sold our
main  Bolla wine  production  facility  in  Pedemonte,  Italy to GIV,  which now
produces  Bolla  Italian  Wines for us. We recognized a gain on the sale of $11,
which is included in other income for fiscal 2007.  The agreement also named GIV
as Bolla's  distributor in the Italian domestic market. We maintained  worldwide
ownership of the Bolla trademark and continue to sell Bolla Wines in the brand's
other markets.


18.  SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On May 16, 2007, we reached an agreement  with the Orendain  family of Mexico to
end our joint  ventures in the tequila  business.  We  purchased  the  remaining
portion of the global  trademark for the Don Eduardo super premium tequila brand
from the Orendain family, and the Orendain family repurchased all other Orendain
trademarks that were once part of the joint ventures.

We had shared  ownership of the trademarks  with the Orendain  family since 1999
through two joint ventures: Tequila Orendain de Jalisco and BFC Tequila Limited.
Tequila  Orendain de Jalisco  produced  the tequila and held the  trademarks  in
Mexico.  BFC Tequila  Limited  held the  trademarks  for all  markets  excluding
Mexico.  During the process of closing the Casa Herradura  acquisition in fiscal
2007, we began  negotiations  with the Orendain  family for the  termination  of
these joint ventures, including the purchase of full ownership and rights to the
Don  Eduardo  brand,  and  returning  all rights to the  international  Orendain
trademarks to the Orendain family.



                             REPORTS OF MANAGEMENT

MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our management is responsible for the preparation,  presentation,  and integrity
of the financial  information  presented in this Annual Report. The consolidated
financial  statements  were prepared in conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the United States of America  (GAAP),  including  amounts
based on management's best estimates and judgments. In management's opinion, the
consolidated   financial  statements  fairly  present  the  Company's  financial
position, results of operations, and cash flows.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,  which is composed of independent
directors,  meets regularly with the independent  registered  public  accounting
firm,  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP (PwC), internal auditors, and representatives
of management to review accounting,  internal control  structure,  and financial
reporting  matters.  The internal  auditors and PwC have full and free access to
the  Audit  Committee.  As set  forth  in our  Code of  Conduct  and  Compliance
Guidelines,  we are firmly  committed  to adhering to the highest  standards  of
moral and ethical behaviors in all of our business activities.


MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Management  is  also  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  adequate
internal control over financial  reporting,  as  defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934.  Our  internal  control  over  financial
reporting is designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial  statements for external
purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.

Under our supervision, and with the participation of management, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework and criteria in "Internal  Control - Integrated
Framework"  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.  Based on this evaluation,  we concluded that the Company's internal
control over financial  reporting was effective as of April 30, 2007. During the
year ended April 30, 2007, Brown-Forman acquired Casa Herradura.  (See Note 3 to
the accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements.) We are in the process of
integrating  the  Casa  Herradura  operations  and will be  incorporating  these
operations  as part of our  internal  controls.  As  permitted  by the SEC,  for
purposes of this  evaluation,  the  disclosure  controls and  procedures  of the
recently  acquired Casa Herradura  operations and the impact of this acquisition
on the Company's  internal controls over financial  reporting were excluded.  In
accordance  with  guidance,  we will include Casa Herradura in our assessment of
internal  control over  financial  reporting  in fiscal 2008.  There has been no
change in the Company's  internal  control over financial  reporting  during the
most recent fiscal year that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially  affect,  the Company's  internal  control over financial  reporting,
provided that the Casa Herrradura  operations and acquisition were excluded from
management's   evaluation  as  noted  above.   Management's  assessment  of  the
effectiveness of the Company's  internal control over financial  reporting as of
April 30,  2007,  has been audited by PwC as stated in their report that appears
on page 54.




/s/ Paul C. Varga
Paul C. Varga
President and Chief Executive Officer



/s/ Phoebe A. Wood
Phoebe A. Wood
Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer



            REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION:

We have completed integrated audits of Brown-Forman  Corporation's  consolidated
financial  statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of
April  30,  2007,  in  accordance  with  the  standards  of the  Public  Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Our opinions,  based on our audits,
are presented below.

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows
and stockholders' equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of  Brown-Forman  Corporation and its  subsidiaries  (the "Company") at
April 30,  2007 and 2006,  and the  results of their  operations  and their cash
flows  for each of the  three  years  in the  period  ended  April  30,  2007 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.  These  financial  statements are the  responsibility  of the Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements  based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company  Accounting  Oversight Board
(United States).  Those standards  require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements,  assessing the accounting  principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated  financial  statements,  the Company
adopted the  recognition  provisions  of SFAS 158,  "Employer's  Accounting  for
Defined  Benefit  Pension and Other  Postretirement  Plans -  Amendment  of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)."

INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL  REPORTING:  Also, in our opinion,  management's
assessment,  included in Management's  Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting  appearing on page 53, that the Company maintained  effective internal
control  over  financial  reporting  as of April  30,  2007,  based on  criteria
established in "Internal Control - Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated,
in all material respects, based on those criteria.  Furthermore, in our opinion,
the Company  maintained,  in all material  respects,  effective internal control
over financial reporting as of April 30, 2007, based on criteria  established in
"Internal  Control - Integrated  Framework"  issued by the COSO.  The  Company's
management  is  responsible  for  maintaining  effective  internal  control over
financial  reporting  and for its  assessment of the  effectiveness  of internal
control over financial  reporting.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on
management's  assessment  and on the  effectiveness  of the  Company's  internal
control over financial  reporting  based on our audit. We conducted our audit of
internal  control over financial  reporting in accordance  with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting  Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about
whether  effective  internal control over financial  reporting was maintained in
all material  respects.  An audit of internal  control over financial  reporting
includes   obtaining  an   understanding  of  internal  control  over  financial
reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design
and operating  effectiveness  of internal  control,  and  performing  such other
procedures as we consider  necessary in the  circumstances.  We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company's  internal control over financial  reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable  assurance  regarding the reliability of financial  reporting
and the preparation of financial  statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial  reporting  includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to
the  maintenance  of records that, in reasonable  detail,  accurately and fairly
reflect the  transactions  and  dispositions of the assets of the company;  (ii)
provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting  principles,  and that receipts and  expenditures  of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company;  and (iii) provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  prevention or
timely  detection  of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use,  or  disposition  of the
company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent  limitations,  internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate  because of changes in  conditions,  or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As  described  in  Management's   Report  on  Internal  Control  over  Financial
Reporting,  management  has  excluded  Casa  Herradura  from its  assessment  of
internal  control over  financial  reporting as of April 30, 2007 because it was
acquired by the Company in a purchase business  combination  during fiscal 2007.
We have also excluded  Casa  Herradura  from our audit of internal  control over
financial  reporting.  Casa Herradura is a wholly-owned  subsidiary  whose total
assets and total  revenues  represent  8% and 2%,  respectively,  of the related
consolidated  financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended April 30,
2007.




/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
June 28, 2007




               IMPORTANT INFORMATION ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This  annual  report  contains  statements,   estimates,   or  projections  that
constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined under U.S. federal securities
laws.  Generally,  the words "expect," "believe," "intend,"  "estimate," "will,"
"anticipate," and "project," and similar expressions  identify a forward-looking
statement,  which speaks only as of the date the  statement  is made.  Except as
required  by law,  we do not  intend to update  or  revise  any  forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

We  believe  that  the   expectations   and  assumptions  with  respect  to  our
forward-looking statements are reasonable. But by their nature,  forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that
in some  cases are out of our  control.  These  factors  could  cause our actual
results to differ materially from  Brown-Forman's  historical  experience or our
present expectations or projections.  Here is a non-exclusive list of such risks
and uncertainties:

 - changes in general economic conditions, particularly in the U.S. where we
   earn about half of our profits;
 - lower consumer confidence or purchasing in the wake of catastrophic events
   or related to higher energy costs;
 - tax increases, whether at the federal or state level or in major
   international markets and/or tariff barriers or other restrictions affecting
   beverage alcohol;
 - limitations and restrictions on distribution of products and alcohol
   marketing, including advertising and promotion, as a result of stricter
   governmental policies adopted either in the U.S. or in international markets;
 - adverse developments in the class action lawsuits filed against Brown-Forman
   and other spirits, beer, and wine manufacturers alleging that our industry
   conspired to promote the consumption of alcohol by those under the legal
   drinking age;
 - a strengthening U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, especially the
   British Pound, Euro, Australian Dollar, and Mexican Peso;
 - reduced bar, restaurant, hotel and travel business, including travel retail,
   in the wake of terrorist attacks;
 - longer-term, a change in consumer preferences, social trends or cultural
   trends that results in the reduced consumption of our premium spirits brands;
 - changes in distribution arrangements in major markets that limit our ability
   to market or sell our products;
 - adverse impact on performance and reported results as a consequence of
   integrating acquisitions and ensuring their conformance to the company's
   trade practice standards, financial control environment, and U.S. public
   company requirements;
 - increases in the price of energy or raw materials, including grapes, grain,
   agave, wood, glass, and plastic;
 - excess wine inventories or a worldwide oversupply of grapes or agave;
 - termination of our rights to distribute and market agency brands included
   in our portfolio;
 - counterfeit production of our products and any resulting negative effect
   on our intellectual property rights or brand equity; and
 - adverse developments as a result of state or federal investigations of
   beverage alcohol industry trade practices of suppliers, distributors,
   and retailers.



                                                                     Exhibit 21

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

                                          Percentage           State or
                                          of Voting          Jurisdiction
Name                                   Securities Owned    of Incorporation
- ----                                   ----------------    ----------------
AMG Trading, L.L.C.                           100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Arrow Continental
 Europe, L.L.C.                               100%           Kentucky
Brown-Forman Beverages Australia Pty. Ltd.    100%           Australia
Brown-Forman Beverages North Asia, L.L.C.     100%           Delaware
B-F Korea, L.L.C.                             100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Beverages Japan, L.L.C.          100%           Delaware
Brown-Forman Thailand, L.L.C.                 100%           Delaware
Canadian Mist Distillers, Limited             100%           Ontario, Canada
Chambord Liqueur Royale de France             100%           France
Early Times Distillers Company                100%           Delaware
Fetzer Vineyards                              100%           California
Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc.      100%           Kentucky
Heddon's Gate Investments, Inc.               100%           Delaware
Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc.                100%           Delaware
Sonoma-Cutrer Vineyards, Inc.                 100%           California
Southern Comfort Properties, Inc.             100%           California
Washington Investments, L.L.C.                100%           Kentucky
Woodford Reserve Stables, L.L.C.              100%           Kentucky
Longnorth Limited                             100% (1)(2)    Ireland
Clintock Limited                              100% (1)(3)    Ireland
Voldgade Holdings Ireland Limited             100% (2)       Ireland
Pitts Bay Trading Limited                      75% (3)       Bermuda
BFC Tequila Limited                           100% (3)(16)   Ireland
Jack Daniel Distillery,
 Lem Motlow, Prop., Inc.                      100% (4)       Tennessee
Brown-Forman Korea Ltd.                       100% (5)       Korea
Fratelli Bolla, S.p.A.                        100% (6)       Italy
Brown-Forman Worldwide (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.   100% (7)       China
Brown-Forman Czech & Slovak
 Republics, s.r.o.                            100% (8)       Czech Republic
Brown-Forman Polska Sp. z o.o.                100% (8)       Poland
Brown-Forman Beverages Worldwide,
 Comercio de Bebidas Ltda.                    100% (9)       Brazil
Brown-Forman Holding Mexico S.A. de C.V.      100% (9)       Mexico
Brown-Forman Worldwide, L.L.C.                100% (9)       Delaware
Amercain Investments C.V.                     100% (10)      Netherlands
Finlandia Vodka Worldwide Ltd.                100% (11)      Finland
Distillerie Tuoni e Canepa Srl                100% (12)      Italy
Brown-Forman Beverages Europe, Ltd.           100% (13)      United Kingdom
Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S              100% (13)      Denmark
Brown-Forman Beverages Edinburgh              100% (14)      Scotland
Brown-Forman Tequila Mexico,
 S. de R.L. de C.V.                           100% (15)      Mexico
Cosesa-BF S.A., de C.V.                       100% (15)      Mexico
Valle de Amatitan, S.A. de C.V.               100% (15)      Mexico


The companies listed above constitute all active subsidiaries in which
Brown-Forman Corporation owns, either directly or indirectly, the majority of
the voting securities. No other active affiliated companies are controlled by
Brown-Forman Corporation.

 (1)  Includes qualifying shares assigned to Brown-Forman Corporation.
 (2)  Owned by Amercain Investments C.V.
 (3)  Owned by Longnorth Limited.
 (4)  Owned by Jack Daniel's Properties, Inc.
 (5)  Owned by B-F Korea, L.L.C.
 (6)  Owned by Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc.
 (7)  Owned by Brown-Forman Beverages North Asia, L.L.C.
 (8)  Owned by Brown-Forman Beverages Edinburgh.
 (9)  Owned 99% by Brown-Forman Corporation and 1% by Early Times Distillers
      Company.
(10)  Owned 95% by Brown-Forman Corporation and 5% by Heddon's Gate
      Investments, Inc.
(11)  Owned by Brown-Forman Beverages Europe, Ltd.
(12)  Owned 55% by Fratelli Bolla International Wines, Inc. and 45% by
      Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S.
(13)  Owned by Voldgade Holdings Ireland Limited.
(14)  Owned 81.8% by Voldgade Investment Holdings A/S and 18.2% by Brown-Forman
      Beverages, Europe, Ltd.
(15)  Owned 99% by Brown-Forman Holding Mexico S.A. de C.V. and 1% by
      Early Times Distillers Company.
(16)  Ownership increased from 67% to 100% in May 2007.




                                                                    Exhibit 23

            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We  hereby  consent  to the  incorporation  by  reference  in  the  Registration
Statements  on Form S-3 (No.  333-140317,  33-12413,  and 33-52551) and Form S-8
(No.  333-08311,   333-38649,   333-74567,   333-77903,   333-88925,  333-89294,
333-126988, and 333-117630) of Brown-Forman Corporation of our report dated June
28, 2007 relating to the financial  statements,  management's  assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the Annual Report
to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We
also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated June 28, 2007
relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
June 28, 2007




                                                                    Exhibit 31.1

       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Paul C. Varga, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brown-Forman Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
    the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
    registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report.

4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
    15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
        disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
        to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
        including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
        within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
        report is being prepared;

    b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
        internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
        supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
        of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
        external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles;

    c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

    d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
        over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
        recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the
        case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
        likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
        financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
    most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
        operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
        reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        control over financial reporting.


Date:   June 28, 2007                           By: /s/ Paul C. Varga
                                                Paul C. Varga
                                                Chief Executive Officer


                                                                    Exhibit 31.2

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Phoebe A. Wood, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Brown-Forman Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
    a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
    statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
    were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
    information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
    the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
    registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report.

4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
    establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
    in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over
    financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
    15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
        disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
        to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
        including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
        within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
        report is being prepared;

    b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
        internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
        supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
        of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
        external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles;

    c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and
        procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
        of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

    d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control
        over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
        recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the
        case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably
        likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
        financial reporting; and

5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
    most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
    registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of
    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
        operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
        reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        control over financial reporting.


Date:   June 28, 2007                           By: /s/ Phoebe A. Wood
                                                Phoebe A. Wood
                                                Chief Financial Officer



                                                                    Exhibit 32

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                 SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Brown-Forman Corporation ("the Company")
on Form 10-K for the period ended April 30, 2007,  as filed with the  Securities
and  Exchange  Commission  on  the  date  hereof  (the  "Report"),  each  of the
undersigned  hereby  certifies,  pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, in the capacity as an
officer of the Company, that:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
    respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.



Dated: June 28, 2007

                                           /s/ Paul C. Varga
                                           Paul C. Varga
                                           President and
                                            Chief Executive Officer




                                           /s/ Phoebe A. Wood
                                           Phoebe A. Wood
                                           Vice Chairman and
                                            Chief Financial Officer


A signed  original of this  written  statement  required by Section 906 has been
provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

This  certificate is being  furnished  solely for purposes of Section 906 and is
not being filed as part of the Report.

