
10-K
FORM 10-K



                                 
             United States Securities and Exchange Commission
                          Washington, D.C.  20549
                                 FORM 10-K
                                     
           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the fiscal year ended April 30, 1996
                       Commission file number 1-123
                                     
                         BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION
          (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
                                     
                    Delaware                                   61-0143150
          (State or other jurisdiction of                    (IRS Employer
          incorporation or organization)                   Identification No.)

            850 Dixie Highway                                    40210
           Louisville, Kentucky                                (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)

     Registrant's telephone number, including area code (502) 585-1100
                                     
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                     
                                                    Name of Each Exchange on
  Title of Each Class                                    Which Registered
  -------------------                               ------------------------
Preferred $.40 Cumulative Stock, $10.00 par value,    New York Stock Exchange
redeemable at company's option at $10.25 per share
plus unpaid accrued dividends; liquidating value
$10.00 per share plus unpaid accrued dividends

Class A Common Stock (voting) $.15 par value          New York Stock Exchange

Class B Common Stock (nonvoting) $.15 par value       New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)       None
of the Act                                            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                              Yes  X      No
                                  ---        ---
                                     
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [     ]

The aggregate market value, at April 30, 1996, of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was $283,475,205.

The number of shares outstanding for each of the registrant's classes of
Common Stock on May 28, 1996 was:
                  Class A Common Stock (voting)    28,988,091
                  Class B Common Stock (nonvoting) 40,008,147
                                     
                    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                    -----------------------------------
Portions of the Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders are
incorporated by reference into Parts I, II, and IV of this report.
Portions of the Proxy Statement of Registrant for use in connection with
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 25, 1996 are incorporated 
by reference into Part III of this report.


                                  PART I
Item 1.  Business
(a)  General development of business:

Brown-Forman  Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the  State  of
Delaware  in 1933, successor to a business founded in 1870 as a partnership
and  subsequently  incorporated  under the  laws  of  the  Commonwealth  of
Kentucky in 1901.  Its principal executive offices are located at 850 Dixie
Highway,  Louisville,  Kentucky 40210 (mailing  address:   P.O.  Box  1080,
Louisville,  Kentucky  40201-1080).  Except as the  context  may  otherwise
indicate,  the  terms  "Brown-Forman" and "company" refer  to  Brown-Forman
Corporation and its subsidiaries.

The company may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking
statements, including statements contained in the company's filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its reports to stockholders.
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements made in good faith
by Brown-Forman pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  In connection with these "safe
harbor" provisions, the company is hereby identifying important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained
in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the company.  Any
such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary
statements.

The company's businesses operate in highly competitive markets and are
subject to changes in general economic conditions, intense competition,
changes in consumer preferences, the impact of excise tax increases with
respect to the wines and spirits segment, foreign exchange rate
fluctuations, the degree of acceptance of new product introductions, the
uncertainties of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties
detailed from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange
Commission filings.  Developments in any of these areas, which may be more
fully described elsewhere in Part I, Item 1 - Business, and Item 3 - Legal
Proceedings, and in Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on pages 18-23 of the
company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders, each of which is incorporated
into this section by reference, could cause the company's results to differ
materially from results that have been or may be projected by or on behalf
of the company.  The company cautions that the foregoing list of important
factors is not exclusive.  The company does not undertake to update any
forward-looking statement that may be made from time to time by or on
behalf of the company.

(b)  Financial information about industry segments:

Information regarding net sales, operating income, and total assets of each
of  the  company's business segments is in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements  on page 35 of the company's 1996  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which  information is incorporated herein  by  reference  in
response to Item 8.

(c)  Narrative description of business:

The following is a description of the company's operations.

Wines and Spirits Segment
- -------------------------
Wines  and  Spirits operations include manufacturing, bottling,  importing,
exporting, and marketing a wide variety of alcoholic beverage brands.  This
Segment  also  manufactures and markets new and used oak  barrels,  plastic
closures, and plastic bottles.

Brands are grouped into four categories:  North American Spirits, Specialty
and Imported Items, Wines, and Craft Beers.



North American Spirits consists of the following brands:

                         Jack Daniel's Tennessee Whiskey
                         Canadian Mist Canadian Whiskies
                         Southern Comfort
                         Old Forester Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whisky
                         Gentlemen Jack Rare Tennessee Whiskey
                         Early Times Kentucky Whisky
                         Woodford Reserve Distillers Select
                              Kentucky Straight Bourbon Whiskey
                         Pepe Lopez Tequila
                         Korbel California Brandies **

Statistics  based  on case sales, published annually  by  a  leading  trade
publication, rank Jack Daniel's as the largest selling Tennessee whiskey in
the United States, Canadian Mist as the largest selling Canadian whisky  in
the  United  States, and Southern Comfort as the largest  selling  domestic
proprietary liqueur in the United States.

Specialty and Imported Items consists of the following brands:

                         Jack Daniel's Country Cocktails
                         Tropical Freezes
                         Ice Breakers
                         Jack Daniel's & Cola
                         Southern Comfort & Cola
                         Bushmills Irish Whiskies*
                         Black Bush Special Irish Whiskey*
                         Glenmorangie Single Highland Malt Scotch Whiskies*
                         Usher's Scotch Whisky*
                         Oblio Sambucas*

Wines consists of the following brands:

                         Fetzer Vineyards California Wines
                         Korbel California Champagnes and Wines**
                         Bolla Italian Wines
                         Jekel Vineyards California Wines
                         Bel Arbor California Wines
                         Fontana Candida Italian Wines*
                         Brolio Italian Wines*
                         Carmen Vineyards Chilean Wines*
                         Fontanafredda Italian Wines*
                         Armstrong Ridge California Champagne**
                         Noilly Prat Vermouths*

Craft Beers consists of the following brands:

                         Jack Daniel's 1866 Classic Oak-aged Beers

*   Brands marketed by Brown-Forman in the U.S. and other select markets by
agency agreements.
**   Brands marketed by Brown-Forman worldwide by agency agreement.



A  leading industry trade publication reported Korbel California Champagnes
as  the largest selling premium champagne in the United States.  This trade
publication  also  reported  that, among  numerous  imported  wines,  Bolla
Italian  Wine  is  the leading premium imported table wine  in  the  United
States.  Fetzer was ranked eighteenth among all table wines.

Brown-Forman  believes  that statistics used to  rank  these  products  are
reasonably accurate.

Brown-Forman's strategy with respect to the Wines and Spirits Segment is to
market  high quality products that satisfy consumer preferences and support
them   with  extensive  international,  national,  and  regional  marketing
programs.  These programs are intended to extend consumer brand recognition
and brand loyalty.

Sales managers and representatives or brokers represent the Segment in  all
states.   The Segment distributes its spirits products domestically  either
through  state  agencies or through wholesale distributors.  The  contracts
which  Brown-Forman has with many of its distributors have  formulas  which
determine  reimbursement to distributors if Brown-Forman  terminates  them;
the  amount of reimbursement is based primarily on the distributor's length
of  service and a percentage of its purchases over time.  Some states  have
statutes  which  limit  Brown-Forman's  ability  to  terminate  distributor
contracts.

Jack  Daniel's  Tennessee Whiskey and Southern Comfort  are  the  principal
products  exported by the Segment.  These brands are sold through contracts
with brokers and distributors in most countries.

The  principal raw materials used in manufacturing and packaging  distilled
spirits  are  corn, rye, malted barley, glass, cartons, and  wood  for  new
white  oak  barrels,  which are used for storage of bourbon  and  Tennessee
whiskey.   None of these raw materials are in short supply, and  there  are
adequate sources from which they may be obtained.

The  principal raw materials used in the production of wines are grapes and
packaging  materials.   Grapes  are primarily  purchased  from  independent
growers.  Adequate sources exist for these raw materials.

Production of whiskies is scheduled to meet demand three to five  years  in
the  future.  Accordingly, inventories are larger in relation to sales  and
total assets than would be normal for most other businesses.

The  industry is highly competitive and there are many brands sold  in  the
consumer market.  Trade information indicates that Brown-Forman is  one  of
the  largest  wine and spirit suppliers in the United States  in  terms  of
revenues.

The  wine  and  spirits  industry is regulated by the  Bureau  of  Alcohol,
Tobacco, and Firearms of the United States Treasury Department with respect
to  production,  blending, bottling, sales, advertising, and transportation
of  its  products.   Also,  each  state regulates  advertising,  promotion,
transportation, sale, and distribution of such products.

Under federal regulations, whisky must be aged for at least two years to be
designated "straight whisky."  The Segment ages its straight whiskies for a
minimum  of  three  to five years.  Federal regulations also  require  that
"Canadian"  whisky  must  be  manufactured in  Canada  in  compliance  with
Canadian laws and must be aged in Canada for at least three years.



Consumer Durables Segment
- -------------------------
The  Consumer Durables Segment includes the manufacturing and/or  marketing
of the following:

                         Fine China Dinnerware
                         Contemporary Dinnerware
                         Casual Dinnerware and Glassware
                         Crystal Stemware
                         Crystal Barware
                         China and Crystal Giftware
                         China Lamps
                         Collectibles and Jewelry
                         Sterling Silver, Pewter and Silver-Plated Giftware
                         Sterling Silver and Stainless Steel Flatware
                         Fine Table Linens
                         Luggage
                         Business Cases and Folios
                         Personal Leather Accessories

All  of  the  products  of  the Segment are sold by segment-employed  sales
representatives   under  various  compensation  arrangements,   and   where
appropriate  to the class of trade, by specialized independent commissioned
sales representatives and independent distributors.

The  Segment's products are marketed domestically through authorized retail
stores consisting of department stores and specialty and jewelry shops  and
through  retail  stores  operated  by  the  Segment.   Products  are   also
distributed  domestically  through the institutional,  incentive,  premium,
business  gift  and military exchange classes of trade, and internationally
through  authorized  retailers  and/or  distributors  in  selected  foreign
markets.   Specially  created  collectible products  are  distributed  both
domestically  and in selected foreign markets through the Segment's  direct
response/mail-order division.

Fine  china  and  crystal products are marketed under both  the  Lenox  and
Gorham  trademarks.   Lenox  also markets casual dinnerware.   Contemporary
dinnerware,  glassware and flatware products are marketed under  the  Dansk
trademark.   Sterling silver and stainless flatware and  sterling  giftware
are  marketed  under  the  Gorham  and  "Lenox.   Kirk  Stieff  Collection"
trademarks.   Pewter and silver-plated giftware products are also  marketed
under  the  "Lenox.  Kirk Stieff Collection" trademark.  Luggage,  business
cases,  and  personal leather accessories are marketed under the  Hartmann,
Wings  and  Crouch & Fitzgerald trademarks.  The direct response/mail-order
sales  in the United States of specially designed collectibles are marketed
under  the Lenox, Princeton Gallery and Gorham trademarks, while such sales
abroad are marketed primarily under the Brooks & Bentley trademark.

The  Lenox, Gorham, and Hartmann brand names hold significant positions  in
their  industries.  The Segment has granted to a producer of  high  quality
table  linens  a license for use of the Lenox trademarks on selective  fine
table linens, subject to the terms of a licensing agreement.

The  Segment  believes  that  it is the largest domestic  manufacturer  and
marketer  of fine china dinnerware and fine crystal stemware, and the  only
significant  domestic  manufacturer of fine quality  china  giftware.   The
Segment  is  also  a leading manufacturer and distributor of  fine  quality
luggage,  business  cases, and personal leather accessories.   The  Segment
competes with a number of other companies and is subject to intense foreign
competition  in  the marketing of its fine china, contemporary  and  casual
dinnerware, crystal stemware, and luggage products.



In  the Segment's china, crystal, and stainless businesses, competition  is
based  primarily on quality, design, brand, style, product appeal, consumer
satisfaction,  and  price.   In its luggage,  business  case  and  personal
leather  accessories  business, competition is  based  primarily  on  brand
awareness, quality, design, style, and price.  In its direct response/mail-
order  business,  the  most important competitive factors  are  the  brand,
product appeal, design, sales/marketing program, service, and price of  the
products.   In its sterling silver, silver-plated, and pewter business  and
competition  is  based  primarily on price, with  quality,  design,  brand,
style, product appeal, and consumer satisfaction also being factors.

Clay and feldspar are the principal raw materials used to manufacture china
products  and  silica  is the principal raw material  used  to  manufacture
crystal  products.   Gold is a significant raw material  used  to  decorate
china and crystal products.  Leather and nylon fabric are the principal raw
materials  used to manufacture luggage and business cases.  Fine silver  is
the principal raw material used to manufacture sterling silver giftware and
flatware  products,  and  tin  is  the  principal  raw  material  used   to
manufacture  pewter  products, and stainless steel  is  the  principal  raw
material  used to manufacture stainless steel flatware.  It is  anticipated
that raw materials used by the Segment will be in adequate supply. However,
the  acquisition  price  of  gold,  fine  silver,  and  tin  is  influenced
significantly by worldwide economic events and commodity trading.

Sales  of certain Segment products are traditionally greater in the  second
quarter of the fiscal year, primarily because of seasonal holiday buying.

Other Information
- -----------------
As  of  April  30, 1996, the company employs approximately  7,400  persons,
including 1,000 employed on a part-time basis.

The  company  is  an  equal opportunity employer and  recruits  and  places
employees  without  regard  to  race, color,  national  origin,  sex,  age,
religion, disability, or veteran status.

The company believes its employee relations are good.

For information on the effects of compliance with federal, state, and local
environmental regulations, refer to Note 11, "Environmental," on page 33 of
the  company's  1996  Annual Report to Stockholders, which  information  is
incorporated herein by reference in response to Item 8.



Item 2.  Properties
- ------   ----------
The  corporate  offices  consist of office buildings,  including  renovated
historic structures, all located in Louisville, Kentucky.

Significant properties by business segments are as follows:

Wines and Spirits Segment
- -------------------------
The facilities of the Wines and Spirits Segment are shown below.  The owned
facilities are held in fee simple.

Owned facilities:
    Production facilities:
            Distilled Spirits and Wines:
                 Lynchburg, Tennessee
                 Louisville, Kentucky
                 Collingwood, Ontario
                 Shively, Kentucky
                 Woodford County, Kentucky
                 Frederiksted, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands
                 Mendocino County, California
                 Monterey County, California
                 Pedemonte, Italy
            Oak Barrels:
                 Louisville, Kentucky
                 Mendocino County, California
            Plastic Closures and Plastic Bottles:
                 Louisville, Kentucky
            
    Bottling facilities:
                 Lynchburg, Tennessee
                 Louisville, Kentucky
                 Woodford County, Kentucky
                 Frederiksted, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands
                 Monterey County, California
                 Pedemonte, Italy
  
     Warehousing facilities:
                 Lynchburg, Tennessee
                 Louisville, Kentucky
                 Collingwood, Ontario
                 Shively, Kentucky
                 Woodford County, Kentucky
                 Mendocino County, California
                 Monterey County, California
                 Pedemonte, Italy
          



Leased facilities:
     Production and bottling facility in Dublin, Ireland
     Wine  production,  warehousing  and  bottling  facility  in  Mendocino
       County, California
     Vineyards in Monterey County, California

The  company  believes  that the productive capacities  of  the  Wines  and
Spirits  Segment  are  adequate for the business, and such  facilities  are
maintained in a good state of repair.

Consumer Durables Segment
- -------------------------
The facilities of the Consumer Durables Segment are shown below.  The owned
facilities are held in fee simple.

Owned facilities:
   Office facilities:
         Lenox corporate - Lawrenceville, New Jersey
         Headquarters for Lenox Direct Response/Mail-Order
               Division - Langhorne, Pennsylvania

   Production and office facilities:
         Lenox  - Pomona, New Jersey (includes retail store); Oxford, North
                  Carolina;
                  Kinston,  North  Carolina;  and Mt.  Pleasant,  Pennsylvania
                  (includes retail store)
         Gorham - Smithfield, Rhode Island
         Hartmann - Lebanon, Tennessee (includes retail store)
      
   Warehousing facilities:
         Lenox/Dansk/Gorham  -  Williamsport, Maryland
      
Leased facilities:
   Office facilities:
         Lenox Manufacturing - Absecon, New Jersey
         Dansk headquarters - White Plains, New York
         Lenox corporate - Lawrenceville, New Jersey
      
   Production/Warehousing/Office facilities:
         Kirk Stieff  -  Baltimore, Maryland (includes retail store)

   Warehousing facilities:
         Lenox   -   South Brunswick, New Jersey (includes retail  stores);
          Oxford, North Carolina;
               Kinston, North Carolina; and Mt. Pleasant, Pennsylvania
         Hartmann  -  Lebanon, Tennessee

      

   Retail stores:
         The Segment operates 34 Lenox outlet stores in 23 states and
          a  Lenox  Gift  Express  store  and Lenox  Collections  kiosk  in
          Pennsylvania.   The Segment also operates 60 Dansk outlet  stores
          in  30  states  and 6 Dansk Lifestyle stores  in  6  states.   In
          addition,  the  Segment operates 2 Crouch  &  Fitzgerald  luggage
          stores in 2 states.
   
The lease terms expire at various dates and are generally renewable, except
for the Crouch & Fitzgerald store leases.

The  company  is of the opinion that the Segment's facilities are  in  good
condition and are adequate for the business.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
- ------   -----------------
Expansion Plus, Inc. v. Brown-Forman Corporation, et al., (United States
District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division, Civil
Action No. H-94-3498.)

In 1988, Brown-Forman purchased a start-up credit card processing business
from Expansion Plus, Inc. ("EPI"), which Brown-Forman developed into a much
larger business and sold in 1993 for $31,250,000.  Several months after the
sale, EPI claimed that Brown-Forman never acquired full title to the credit
card processing business, was obligated to return all or part of it to EPI,
and that the sale of the business to a third party represented a conversion
of assets owned by EPI.

In October, 1994, EPI filed a tort action against Brown-Forman and the
purchaser of the business alleging conversion of property, tortious
interference with contractual relationships, misappropriation of trade
secrets and breach of a confidential relationship and seeking damages of
$31,250,000 plus punitive damages in an amount ten times actual damages.
Trial is scheduled for September, 1996.

On May 21, 1996, a Magistrate Judge entered a Memorandum and Recommendation
that all of EPI's tort claims against Brown-Forman be dismissed.  EPI has
since filed Objections to the Magistrate's Recommendation and moved to
amend its complaint to include a breach of contract claim against Brown-
Forman.  The District Judge will review and accept, modify or reject the
Recommendations and decide whether to allow EPI to amend its complaint.

In the opinion of management, and based upon the advice of legal counsel,
the disposition of this suit will not have a material adverse effect on the
company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
- ------   --------------------------------------------------- 
None.






                                  PART II

Item  5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
- -------    ----------------------------------------------------------------
           Matters
           -------

Except as presented below, for the information required by this item  refer
to  the section entitled "Quarterly Financial Information" appearing on the
"Highlights"  page  of  the  1996  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Holders of record of Common Stock at May 28, 1996:
     Class A Common Stock (Voting)           3,045
     Class B Common Stock (Nonvoting)        5,051

The principal market for Brown-Forman common shares is the New York Stock 
Exchange.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
- ------   -----------------------
For  the  information required by this item, refer to the section  entitled
"Consolidated  Selected Financial Data" appearing on page 17  of  the  1996
Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein  by
reference in response to Item 8.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
- ------   ---------------------------------------------------------------
         Results of Operations
         ---------------------
For  the  information required by this item, refer to the section  entitled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis" appearing on pages 18 through 23  of
the  1996  Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated
herein by reference in response to Item 8.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
- ------   -------------------------------------------
For  the  information  required  by this  item,  refer  to  the  Report  of
Management,  Report  of  Independent  Accountants,  Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  and  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  appearing  on
pages  24  through  35  of  the 1996 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which
information  is  incorporated herein by reference.  For selected  quarterly
financial  information, refer to the section entitled "Quarterly  Financial
Information"  appearing on the "Highlights" page of the 1996 Annual  Report
to Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


Item  9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting  and
- -------    ----------------------------------------------------------------
           Financial Disclosures
           ---------------------
None.

                                     
                                 PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
- -------   --------------------------------------------------
For  the information required by this item, refer to the following sections
of  the  registrant's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting  of
Stockholders  to  be held July 25, 1996, which information is  incorporated
herein  by  reference:  (a) "Election of Directors" on page 1  through  the
footnote  on  page  2  (for information on directors);  and  (b)  the  last
paragraph on page 4 (for information on delinquent filings).  Also, see the
information  with  respect to "Executive Officers of the Registrant"  under
Part I hereof, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation
- -------   ----------------------
For  the  information required by this item, refer to the section  entitled
"Executive  Compensation"  on  pages  5  through  14  of  the  registrant's
definitive  proxy  statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders  to  be
held July 25, 1996, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
- -------   --------------------------------------------------------------
For  the  information required by this item, refer to the section  entitled
"Security  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" appearing
on  pages  3 and 4 of the registrant's definitive proxy statement  for  the
Annual  Meeting of Stockholders to be held July 25, 1996, which information
is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
- -------   ----------------------------------------------
For  the  information required by this item, refer to the section  entitled
"Transactions  with  Management" appearing on page 14 of  the  registrant's
definitive  proxy  statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders  to  be
held July 25, 1996, which information is incorporated herein by reference.



                                  PART IV
                                     
Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K
- -------   ----------------------------------------------------------------
(a)  1 and 2 - Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules:


                                                                
 (1)  Doubtful accounts written off, net of recoveries.

                                  S-2



                                                  Exhibit (4)
                                                  EXECUTION COPY

                        AMENDMENT NO. 1
                 DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 23, 1996
                               to
                        CREDIT AGREEMENT
                 DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1994

     This Amendment No. 1 (this "Amendment") is entered into as of February
23,  1996,  by  and among Brown-Forman Corporation, a Delaware  corporation
(the  "Company"), the undersigned Banks, The First National Bank of Chicago
and  Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Co-Agents, and The First
National  Bank  of  Chicago,  as Administrative  Agent,  under  the  Credit
Agreement referred to below.  The parties hereto agree as follows:

      WHEREAS, the Company, the Administrative Agent, the Co-Agents and the
Banks are parties to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of November 30,
1994 (the "Credit Agreement"); and

      WHEREAS, the Company, the Administrative Agent, the Co-Agents and the
Banks  desire to amend the Credit Agreement in certain respects more  fully
described hereinafter;

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the undertakings set forth herein,
the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

      1.   Defined Terms.   Capitalized terms used herein, including in the
Preamble  and  Recitals, and not otherwise defined herein  shall  have  the
meanings attributed to them in the Credit Agreement.

     2.   Amendments to the Credit Agreement.

      2.1. The definition of "Applicable Margin" set forth in Article I  is
hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof
the following:

           "'Applicable  Margin' means (i) for any day  on  which  Level  I
     Status exists, 0.135 of 1% per annum, (ii) for any day on which  Level
     II  Status  exists, 0.15 of 1% per annum, (iii) for any day  on  which
     Level III Status exists, 0.18 of 1% per annum, and (iv) for any day on
     which  Level  IV Status exists, 0.275 of 1% per annum.   Reference  is
     hereby made to the Pricing Schedule set forth in Section 2.4.5(c)  for
     an  illustration of the relationship between the Applicable Margin and
     the Status Levels."

      2.2. The definition of "Termination Date" set forth in Article  I  is
hereby  amended by deleting the date "November 30, 1999"  where it  appears
therein and inserting the date "February 23, 2001" in lieu thereof.

      2.3.  The definition of "Usage Fee" set forth in Article I is  hereby
amended by deleting it in its entirety.

      2.4. Clause (a) of Section 2.4.5 is hereby amended by deleting it  in
its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

          "(a)      Facility Fees.  The Company hereby agrees to pay to the
     Administrative Agent for the account of each Bank a facility fee  (the
     "Facility  Fee")  of (a) for any day on which Level I  Status  exists,
     0.065  of  1%  per  annum, (b)  for any day on which Level  II  Status
     exists,  0.075  of 1% per annum, (c) for any day on  which  Level  III
     Status  exists,  0.09 of 1% per annum, and (d) for any  day  on  which
     Level  IV  Status  exists,  0.125 of 1% per annum,  on  the  Aggregate
     Commitment for the period from February 23, 1996, to but excluding the
     Termination  Date  (or  such  earlier  date  on  which  the  Aggregate
     Commitment  shall terminate), payable in arrears on each Payment  Date
     (the  first  such  payment to be made on April 15, 1996)  and  on  the
     Termination  Date  (or  such  earlier  date  on  which  the  Aggregate
     Commitment shall terminate) for any period then ending for which  such
     fee  shall  not  have  been theretofor paid.  The Company  shall  give
     prompt notice to the Administrative Agent of any changes in the Status
     Level in accordance with Section 6.15."

      2.5. Clause (b) of Section 2.4.5 is hereby amended by deleting it  in
its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

          "(b)  [Intentionally Omitted]."

      2.6  Clause (c) of Section 2.4.5, is hereby amended by deleting it in
its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the following:

           "(c)   The  following schedule illustrates  how  the  Applicable
     Margin and Facility Fees will apply to the Company in different Status
     Levels:



      3.    Representations  and  Warranties.    In  order  to  induce  the
Administrative  Agent,  the Co-Agents and the  Banks  to  enter  into  this
Amendment, the Company hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative
Agent, the Co-Agents and the Banks as of the date of this Amendment that:

           (a)  The execution and delivery by the Company of this Amendment
     and the performance of its obligations under the Credit Agreement,  as
     amended  by  this  Amendment,  and under  the  Notes  are  within  the
     Company's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary
     corporate   proceedings,  have  received  all  necessary  governmental
     approvals  (if  any  shall  be required), and  do  not  and  will  not
     contravene  or  conflict  with any provision  of,  or  result  in  the
     creation or imposition of a Lien upon any properties of the Company or
     any  Subsidiary  under,  any law, or the charter  or  by-laws  of  the
     Company  or  any Subsidiary, or any agreement, indenture or instrument
     to  which the Company or any Subsidiary is a party or by which  it  or
     its property is bound.

           (b)  The Credit Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, is  the
     valid  and  binding obligation of the Company enforceable against  the



     Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may  be
     limited  by  bankruptcy,  insolvency or  similar  laws  affecting  the
     enforcement of creditor's rights generally.

          (c)  The representations and warranties contained in Article V of
     the  Credit  Agreement are true and correct on and as of the  date  of
     this Amendment.

          (d)  There exists no Default or Unmatured Default.

      4.    Amendment  Effective  Date.      This  Amendment  shall  become
effective  as  of  the  date  first  written  above  upon  receipt  by  the
Administrative  Agent,  with sufficient copies for the  Co-Agents  and  the
Banks, of counterparts of this Amendment duly executed by the Company,  the
Administrative Agent, the Co-Agents and each of the Banks.

      5.    Ratification  of  the  Credit Agreement.   All  of  the  terms,
conditions  and  covenants of the Credit Agreement, except as  specifically
amended  herein,  shall  remain  in full  force  and  effect.   The  Credit
Agreement  as amended herein is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed  in
all respects.

     6.   Reference to the Credit Agreement.  From and after the date first
above  written, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement",
"hereof",  "hereunder" or words of like import, and all references  to  the
Credit  Agreement in any and all agreements, instruments, documents, notes,
certificates and other writings of every kind and nature, shall  be  deemed
to mean the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Amendment.

     7.   Costs and Expenses. The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and
out-of-pocket  expenses  (including attorney's fees  and  time  charges  of
attorneys for the Administrative Agent, which attorneys may be employees of
the   Administrative  Agent)  incurred  by  the  Administrative  Agent   in
connection   with  the  enforcement  of  this  Amendment.   The   Company's
obligations  under  this Paragraph 7 shall survive any termination  of  the
Credit Agreement or this Amendment.

      8.   CHOICE OF LAW. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED
IN  ACCORDANCE  WITH  THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF  ILLINOIS  (WITHOUT
APPLICATION OF THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF).

      9.    Counterparts.  This Amendment may be executed in any number  of
counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one amendment.

      IN  WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, the Administrative Agent,  the  Co-
Agents and each of the undersigned Banks have executed this Amendment as of
the date first above written.

                         BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION

                             /s/ Terry Lange
                         By: ________________________________
                         Title: Assistant Treasurer

                             /s/ Garrison R. Cox
                         By: ________________________________
                         Title: Assistant Vice President and 
                                Assistant Secretary



                         THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO,
                          Individually,  as Co-Agent and as  Administrative
                          Agent

                         By: /s/ Robert R. Bourke
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Senior Vice President

                         MORGAN GUARANTY TRUST COMPANY OF
                         NEW YORK, Individually and as Co-Agent

                         By: /s/ Laura E. Reim
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Vice President

                         ABN AMRO BANK N.V.

                         By: /s/ James Janovsky
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Group Vice President

                         BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                         AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION

                         By: /s/ James O'Keane
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Senior Vice President

                         By: /s/ Raju N. Patel
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Assistant Vice President

                         BANK OF MONTREAL

                         By: /s/ Randall Becker
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Managing Director



                         CITIBANK N.A.

                         By: /s/ David L. Harris
                             --------------------------------               
                         Title: Assistant Vice President

                         CORESTATES BANK, N.A.

                         By: /s/ Thomas J. McDonnell
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Vice President

                         FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON

                         By: /s/ Howard V. Hennigar, Jr.
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Managing Director

                         THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN TRUST
                         COMPANY

                         By: /s/ J. Kenneth Biegen
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Senior Vice President

                         MELLON BANK, N.A.

                         By: /s/ Mark Johnston
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Assistant Vice President

                         NATIONAL CITY BANK, KENTUCKY

                         By: /s/ Deroy Scott
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Vice President

                         PNC BANK, KENTUCKY, INC.

                         By: /s/ Brennan T. Danile
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Commercial Banking Officer

                         SWISS BANK CORPORATION

                         By: /s/ H. Clark Worthley
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Associate Director
                              
                         By: /s/ Sean W. Kelly
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Associate Director



                         THE SANWA BANK, LIMITED, ATLANTA AGENCY

                         By: /s/ Shinji Osumi
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Vice President

                         THIRD NATIONAL BANK IN NASHVILLE

                         By: /s/ Scott Corley
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Assistant Vice President

                         WACHOVIA BANK OF GEORGIA, N.A.

                         By: /s/ Terence C. Snellings
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Senior Vice President

                         WESTDEUTSCHE LANDESBANK
                         GIROZENTRALE,  NEW YORK AND
                         CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCHES

                         By: /s/ Alan S. Bookspan
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Vice President

                         By: /s/ Karen E. Hoploch
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Vice President


                         SOCIETE GENERALE

                         By: /s/ Steve Fercho
                             --------------------------------
                         Title: Vice President






Regular cash dividends have been paid for the fifty-first consecutive year.

                      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

                                     
                                     
                                     
                        FINANCIAL                                      
                    Consolidated Selected Financial Data    
                    Management's Discussion and Analysis
                           Report of Management
                     Report of Independent Accountants
                     Consolidated Statement of Income
                       Consolidated Balance Sheet
                   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
              Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
                Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



                              CONSOLIDATED SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
For Fiscal Year Ended April 30,
(Expressed in millions, except per share amounts and ratios)



Notes:
1. Includes the operations of Fetzer Vineyards and Dansk International Designs 
   Ltd., since their acquisitions on August 31, 1992, and July 2, 1991, 
   respectively. 
2. On October 15, 1993, the company sold Brown-Forman Enterprises, its credit
   card processing operations, resulting in an after-tax gain of $18 million.
3. On January 31, 1989, the company sold the U.S. marketing rights for 
   Martell Cognacs resulting in an after-tax gain of $22 million.
4. On April 27, 1988, the company sold the ArtCarved jewelry division 
   resulting in an after-tax gain of $17 million.
5. Net income was reduced $60 million and $33 million to reflect the 
   write-off of the intangible assets of California Cooler in 1990 and 1988, 
   respectively.
6. Earnings per common share are based on the weighted average number of 
   common shares outstanding during each year; both earnings and cash 
   dividends per common share have been appropriately adjusted for the 
   3-for-1 and 3-for-2 stock splits in fiscal 1994 and 1987, respectively.
7. Return on Average Invested Capital is defined as the sum of net income 
   (excluding extraordinary items) and the after-tax cost of interest 
   expense, divided by average invested capital.  Average invested capital 
   is the sum of all interest bearing debt and preferred and common
   equity, averaged at year end.
8. Return on Average Common Stockholders' Equity is defined as the sum of 
   income applicable to common stock divided by average common stockholders' 
   equity.
9. Total Long-Term Debt to Total Long-Term Capital is defined as long-term 
   debt divided by the sum of long-term debt and preferred and common equity.



MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

This discussion and analysis supplements the consolidated financial
statements beginning on page 25 and will assist the reader in evaluating
Brown-Forman's fiscal 1996 results of operations, financial position, and
cash flows.  Included in the Chairman's Letter, beginning on page 2, and
this Management's Discussion and Analysis are certain forward-looking
statements reflecting management's expectations.  Forward-looking
statements may be significantly impacted by certain risks and uncertainties
described herein and in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended April 30, 1996.

CONSOLIDATED SALES AND EARNINGS

Fiscal 1996 Compared to 1995 

Net sales reached record levels in fiscal 1996, growing  $127 million, or  
8%.  Sales of wines and spirits surged 14%, aided by successful new product 
introductions, continued international expansion, and vibrant growth of the 
company's wine brands.  A 5% sales decline for the consumer durables segment 
reflected significantly lower response rates for the Lenox direct mail 
business and a generally soft retail environment for consumer durables. 

International sales increased 27% in fiscal 1996, largely attributable to a 
double-digit growth rate for Jack Daniel's.  Overseas sales represented 18% 
of Brown-Forman's 1996 revenues, excluding excise taxes, and 16% in both 
fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1994.  The effect of foreign currency exchange rate 
fluctuations on consolidated net sales was not material.

                    [Brown-Forman Geographic Sales Mix
                         (excluding excise taxes)
                                  graph]
                                     
Operating income improved $6 million, or 2%, during fiscal 1996, driven by
an $18 million increase in the wines and spirits segment.  Operating income
growth in the wines and spirits segment was generated from the same sources
responsible for increased sales _ new products, international expansion,
and higher wine volume.  The consumer durables segment experienced an $11
million drop in operating income, principally related to the sharp decline
in consumer demand for collectible products marketed by the Lenox direct
marketing division.

                              [Operating Income
                                   graph]

Earnings reached a record $2.31 per share, up 7% over fiscal 1995.
Earnings growth was derived from higher operating income, lower net
interest expense, and a favorable effective tax rate.  The drop in Brown-
Forman's fiscal 1996 effective tax rate reflects benefits from foreign
operations and a shift in the earnings mix towards businesses that carry a
lower relative tax rate.  The company's effective tax rate is expected to
increase slightly in fiscal 1997, reflecting a curtailment of certain
overseas benefits.

                            [Earnings Per Common Share
                                      graph]


Fiscal 1995 Compared to 1994

Net sales increased $51 million, or 3%, in fiscal 1995.  Higher sales of 
wines and spirits were attributable to volume growth of Jack Daniel's, Fetzer
California wines, Korbel Champagnes, and the national introduction of 
Tropical Freezes.  Consumer durable revenues were up 5%, following 
broad-based volume gains across most Lenox divisions. Increases were 
partially offset by the absence of revenues from the company's credit card 
processing business, which was sold in fiscal 1994.

Operating income, excluding unusual items in the prior year, increased
$19 million, or 8%, during fiscal 1995.  Approximately $11 million of this
growth was derived from a strong sales performance and increased
operational efficiencies in the consumer durables segment.  The wines and
spirits segment contributed an additional $9 million of operating income as
a result of improved sales coupled with lower advertising expenses in the
cocktails category.  

Earnings per share in fiscal 1995 were boosted by a reduction in the average 
number of common shares outstanding following a January 1994 stock 
repurchase.  While the repurchase had a positive impact on earnings per 
share, associated financing costs reduced fiscal 1995 net income by 
approximately $9 million.  A higher effective tax rate in fiscal 1995 
resulted from a reduction of overseas tax benefits, a favorable adjustment 
to tax accruals in the prior year, and improved profits from the consumer 
durables business, which bears a relatively higher effective tax rate. 

SHAREHOLDER RETURNS

Brown-Forman's most important financial objective is to increase the value 
of its stockholders' investment.  Long-term growth in the market value of 
the company's stock is a good indication of our success in delivering an 
attractive return to shareholders.  A $100 investment in Brown-Forman's 
Class B stock ten years ago would have grown to $462 by the end of fiscal 
1996, assuming reinvestment of all dividends and ignoring personal taxes 
and transaction costs.  This represents a market value increase of 17% 
annually over the ten-year period.  

The market value of an investment in Brown-Forman rose 23% in fiscal 1996 -
an impressive performance, although below a strong 31% gain by the S&P 
500 for the same period.

                        [Total Shareholder Return
                     (including dividend reinvestment)
                                  graph]

Return on average invested capital grew from 19.5% to 19.7% in fiscal 1996,
reflecting profitable growth of the wines and spirits segment and careful
management of capital invested in the consumer durables segment.

                   [Return on Average Invested Capital
                                  graph]


Return on average common stockholders' equity, benefiting from the
company's January 1994 share repurchase, grew to 30.1% in fiscal 1995.  A
decline to 27.5% in fiscal 1996 reflects the impact of reducing the
company's debt as a percentage of total capital.



              [Return on Average Common Stockholders' Equity
                                  graph]

SHARE REPURCHASE AND STOCK SPLIT

On January 14, 1994, the company concluded a Dutch auction tender offer, 
acquiring 2,734,452 shares of Class A and 10,933,518 shares of Class B 
common stock at a total cost of $408 million. While interest costs associated
with the share repurchase lowered net income, the transaction had a positive 
effect on earnings per share, adding an incremental $.15 to fiscal 1995 and 
$.07 to fiscal 1994.

During 1994, the company effected a three-for-one stock split for all shares 
of Class A and Class B common stock, distributed on May 20, 1994, in the form
of a stock dividend.  Also during 1994, the company retired its treasury 
stock.  The Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity details the impact
of this retirement.

WINES AND SPIRITS SEGMENT



The wines and spirits business is Brown-Forman's largest segment, representing
72% of net sales in fiscal 1996, and 68% in both fiscal 1995 and
1994.

Fiscal 1996 Compared to 1995

Net sales in fiscal 1996 increased $156 million, or 14%.  Strong consumer 
demand for Tropical Freezes, continued increases in worldwide volume of Jack 
Daniel's and Southern Comfort, and a double-digit rate of growth for several 
of the company's premium wine brands all contributed to record beverage 
sales.  The company's wine business continued to benefit from media reports 
on scientific research indicating that moderate consumption of beverage 
alcohol helps reduce the risk of heart disease.  Volume levels for 
Brown-Forman's other major spirit brands were lower, largely reflecting 
consumption trends in the U.S.

One of the company's principal growth initiatives is to accelerate its 
expansion into international markets.  Beverage sales outside the U.S. 
grew strongly in fiscal 1996, up 29%.  International sales in fiscal 1996 
represented 25% of sales, excluding excise taxes, compared to 22% in fiscal 
1995.

                  [Wines and Spirits Geographic Sales Mix
                          (excluding excise tax)
                                  graph]


Another major growth initiative for Brown-Forman is to add new beverage
products, by either internal development or acquisition.  Fully 22% of
fiscal 1996 beverage sales, excluding excise taxes, were generated from new
products introduced or brands added within the past five years.

                        [Sales of Wines and Spirits
                         (excluding excise taxes)
                                  graph]

Gross profit performance is a key measure tracked by the company to gauge
the quality of  volume growth.  Wines and spirits gross profit grew at the
same rate as sales in fiscal 1996 - 14% - indicating that incremental sales
carried healthy margins.

Operating income increased $18 million, or 8%, to a record level in fiscal 
1996.   Contributing to earnings growth were higher overseas sales of 
Jack Daniel's, increased consumer demand for the company's premium wine 
brands, successful new product introductions, and modest price increases 
on selected major spirits brands in the domestic market.  The segment's 
operating margin declined from 21.4% to 20.2% in fiscal 1996.  This reflects 
investments associated with expansion into new international markets and 
increased advertising expenses related to both established brands and new 
product introductions.

Fiscal 1995 Compared to 1994  

Net sales in fiscal 1995 rose $33 million, or 3%, as a result of increased 
sales of Jack Daniel's, Korbel Champagne, Fetzer California wines, and the 
national introduction of Tropical Freezes.  Volume levels for Brown-Forman's 
other major spirit brands were lower, largely reflecting consumption trends 
in the U.S.  Domestic volume declines were offset by price increases on most 
major brands.  

Operating income improved $9 million, or 4%, in fiscal 1995 following 
increased worldwide sales volumes of Jack Daniel's, lower advertising 
expense in the cocktails category, and higher overall gross margins.  
The increase was partially offset by investments associated with the 
company's international expansion initiative.  

Business Environment

The sale of beverage alcohol around the world takes place against a backdrop 
of long-standing public debate over the role of drinking in society.  
Brown-Forman and the public are rightfully concerned about alcohol abuse.  
The company strongly opposes abusive drinking and contributes significant 
amounts of money to programs aimed at curbing and understanding alcohol 
abuse. Brown-Forman also supports and abides by industry marketing and 
advertising codes.

Critics of beverage alcohol, however, seek to restrict overall alcohol 
consumption, not just alcohol abuse.  These industry opponents promote 
policies such as sales and advertising restrictions, punitive taxes, and 
litigation to seek reimbursement for Medicaid costs from manufacturers.  
Adoption of some or all of these policies could adversely affect 
Brown-Forman's beverage business.  Brown-Forman believes that adults have the
right to make an informed choice about whether to drink and will continue to 
oppose these efforts to deter responsible consumption through sales and 
advertising restrictions, warning requirements, punitive taxes, or the 
dissemination of biased information about alcohol and health.

Beverage alcohol sales are particularly sensitive to higher rates of tax, 
which increase the shelf price to the consumer.  Although the company is not 
aware of any pending legislative proposal to increase U.S. federal excise 
taxes, several states have considered such taxes in the last year.  If 
Congress goes forward with efforts to return responsibility for expensive 
social programs to the states, many more states are likely to consider similar 
regressive taxes despite the fact that the last federal excise tax increase on
spirits resulted in a loss of revenues.  If such taxes were increased at the
federal level or in major market states, they would adversely affect the
market for beverage alcohol.

CONSUMER DURABLES SEGMENT



The consumer durables segment represented 28% of Brown-Forman's net sales in 
fiscal 1996, and 32% in both fiscal 1995 and 1994.  

Fiscal 1996 Compared to 1995 

Net sales declined $29 million, or 5%, in fiscal 1996, primarily attributable
to a sharp decline in consumer response rates at Lenox Collections.  Results 
were also affected, to a lesser extent, by a difficult retail environment for
outlet stores and consolidation within the department store distribution 
channel. 



Operating income decreased $11 million, or 29%, principally from the decline 
in customer response rates within the direct mail collectible business.
Although fiscal 1996 results were disappointing, initiatives in recent
years have helped boost Lenox's U.S. market share for fine china dinnerware
to 41%.  Lenox now has eight of the top ten china patterns sold through
U.S. department stores.  Management continues to believe that numerous
opportunities exist to leverage our well-known brand names by developing
new products and utilizing new channels of distribution.

Fiscal 1995 Compared to 1994

Net sales in fiscal 1995 increased $28 million, or 5%, driven by sales growth
of Lenox China, Lenox retail operations, Lenox Collections, and Dansk.  Sales
growth for the segment resulted principally from increases in volume.

Operating income, excluding unusual items in fiscal 1994, improved $11 
million, or 41%, in fiscal 1995.   Increased earnings were attributable to 
solid sales growth, reduced manufacturing costs, and lower selling, general, 
and administrative costs throughout the consumer durables segment. 

OTHER SEGMENT

Effective November 1, 1993, the company discontinued the use of this segment.
See Note 4, on page 31, for information related to the sale of the company's 
credit card processing business during fiscal 1994.  Net sales in fiscal 1994
were $10 million.


UNUSUAL ITEMS

Several unusual items lowered reported earnings per share in fiscal 1994 and 
1993.  Notes 3, 4, 9, and 13 of the consolidated financial statements discuss
these items in detail.  The impact of unusual items on earnings per share is 
summarized as follows:



There were no unusual items in fiscal 1996, 1995, or 1992.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Brown-Forman's cash flows from operations continue to provide more than 
adequate capital to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements, pay 
record dividends, and fund acquisition opportunities.  The company considers 
its ability to internally generate cash to be a significant financial 
strength.  Both of Brown-Forman's segments generate positive cash flow after 
capital spending.

Free cash flow is the cash remaining from operations after satisfying internal
and external business reinvestment opportunities.  A consolidated statement
of cash flows is summarized as follows:



Cash provided by operations decreased $26 million in fiscal 1996,
primarily as a result of reduced earnings at Lenox, a build-up of low
alcohol beverage inventories in advance of seasonal requirements, and
higher accounts receivable reflecting an increased mix of international
sales which generally carry longer credit terms.  Fiscal 1995 cash from
operations also reflect an increased investment in beverage inventories.



The company issued $30 million in medium-term notes in fiscal 1996 in order
to pay down short-term borrowings.  The company has a $300 million
revolving credit agreement that expires in fiscal 2001.  At April 30, 1996,
the company had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement.  At April
30, 1996, the company had  $220 million remaining on its $250 million shelf
registration, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
in fiscal 1994.

       [Total Long-Term Debt to Total Long-Term Capital (at April 30)
                                  graph]

The company uses derivative financial instruments for the purpose of
reducing its exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates.  While these hedging instruments are subject to
fluctuations in value, such fluctuations are generally offset by the value
of the underlying exposures being hedged.  The company is not a party to
leveraged derivatives and does not hold or issue financial instruments for
speculative purposes.  The company had previously sold an option to swap
interest rates that effectively eliminated the call  feature on the $100
million 9.375% notes for the period April 1, 1995, to April 1, 1998.  This
option was exercised April 1, 1995, effectively converting $100 million of
commercial paper from floating interest rate obligations to 9.375% fixed
rate obligations from April 1, 1995, to April 1, 1998.  The option on this
swap was sold in order to manage the level of fixed and floating rate debt.
The premium received on the sale of this option is being amortized as a
reduction of interest expense through April 1, 1998.  

The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for substantially all of the 
company's consolidated operations.  For these operations, all gains and losses 
from currency transactions are included in current income.  For certain 
foreign equity investments, the functional currency is the local currency.  
The cumulative translation effects for the few equity investments using 
functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are included in the 
cumulative translation adjustment in stockholders' equity.

Foreign currency forwards and options, which typically expire within one 
year, are used to hedge payments and receipts of foreign currencies related 
to the purchase and sale of goods overseas.  Realized gains and losses on 
these contracts are recognized in the same period as the hedged transactions.
While these hedges are subject to the risk of loss from fluctuations in 
exchange rates, these losses would be offset by gains on the transactions 
being hedged. The effects of foreign currency transactions on fiscal 1996, 
1995, and 1994 results of operations and financial condition were immaterial.  
The company had foreign exchange contracts on hand at April 30, 1996, 1995, 
and 1994, primarily hedging German Mark, British Pound and Japanese Yen 
revenues, totaling $28 million, $11 million, and $27 million, respectively.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Brown-Forman invested $59 million in property, plant, and equipment in fiscal
1996, $51 million in fiscal 1995, and $27 million in fiscal 1994.  These 
expenditures primarily reflect the expansion and modernization of 
company-wide production facilities.

Capital expenditures for fiscal 1997 are expected to be approximately $60 
million, primarily for expanding the company's production and office 
facilities.  Fiscal 1997 capital expenditure requirements are expected to be 
met with internally generated funds.

DIVIDENDS

Quarterly dividends were increased 5% in fiscal 1996 to $.26, which results 
in an indicated annual dividend of $1.04 per common share. The increase was 
based on the expectation of continued strong cash flow.  Cash dividends paid 
as a percentage of net income were 44% in fiscal 1996, compared to 45% and 
58% for fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1994, respectively.  Brown-Forman has paid 
regular cash dividends for 51 consecutive years.

                            [Cash Dividends Paid
                         Per Share of Common Stock
                                  graph]

ENVIRONMENTAL

The company, along with other responsible parties, faces environmental claims
resulting from the cleanup of several waste deposit sites.  The company has 
accrued its estimated portion of cleanup costs and expects other responsible 
parties and insurance coverage to cover the remaining costs.  The company 
believes that any additional costs incurred by the company will not have a 
material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position or 
results of operations.



REPORT OF MANAGEMENT
     We are responsible for the presentation of the information contained
in the consolidated financial statements and for its integrity and
objectivity.  Our statements have been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and include amounts based on our
best estimates and judgments with appropriate consideration given to
materiality.  We also prepared the related financial information and are
responsible for its accuracy and consistency with the financial statements.
     The consolidated financial statements have been audited by Coopers &
Lybrand, L.L.P., independent certified public accountants.  We have made
available to Coopers & Lybrand all the company's financial records and
related data, as well as the minutes of stockholders', directors', and
other appropriate meetings.  Furthermore, we believe that all
representations made to Coopers & Lybrand during the audit were valid and
appropriate.   
     We are responsible for establishing and maintaining a system
of internal control designed to provide reasonable assurance at reasonable
cost that financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements
and that assets are properly accounted for and safeguarded.  The company
has an internal audit function that is intended to provide a review and
monitoring process that allows the company to be reasonably sure that the
system of internal control operates effectively.  In addition, as part of
the audit of the financial statements, Coopers & Lybrand completed a study
and evaluation of selected internal accounting controls to establish a
basis for reliance thereon in determining the nature, timing, and extent of
audit tests to be applied.  We have considered the internal auditors' and
Coopers and Lybrand's recommendations concerning the system of internal
control and have taken actions that we believe are cost-effective in the
circumstances to respond appropriately to these recommendations.  We
believe that as of April 30, 1996, the system of internal control is
adequate to accomplish the objectives discussed herein.     
     We also recognize our responsibility for fostering a strong ethical 
climate so that the company's affairs are conducted according to the highest 
standards of personal and corporate conduct.  This responsibility is 
characterized and reflected in the company's Code of Conduct, which is 
publicized throughout the company.  The Code of Conduct addresses, among 
other things, the necessity of ensuring open communication within the 
company; disclosure of potential conflicts of interests; compliance with all 
applicable domestic and foreign laws, including those relating to financial 
disclosure; and maintaining the confidentiality of proprietary information.  
The company has a systematic program to assess compliance with the Code of 
Conduct.
     The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, composed solely of
directors who are not employees of the company, meets with management, the
internal auditors and the independent certified public accountants to
ensure that each is properly discharging its respective responsibilities.
Both the independent certified public accountants and the internal auditors
have free access to the Audit Committee, without management present, to
discuss the results of their work, including internal accounting controls
and the quality of financial reporting.


/s/ Owsley Brown II
- -------------------
Owsley Brown II
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Steven B. Ratoff
- --------------------
Steven B. Ratoff
Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

BROWN-FORMAN CORPORATION 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of 
Brown-Forman Corporation and Subsidiaries as of April 30, 1996, 1995, and 
1994, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity
and cash flows for the years then ended.  These financial statements are the 
responsibility of the company's management. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Brown-Forman Corporation and Subsidiaries at April 30, 1996, 1995, and
1994, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows
for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.    
     As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, in 1994
the company adopted changes in its methods of accounting for postretirement 
benefits other than pensions, postemployment benefits, and contributions.


/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
Louisville, Kentucky
May 28, 1996


                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.



                            CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.






                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial 
statements.


                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
consolidated financial statements.



                NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
        (Dollars in millions, except share and per share amounts)

1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all 
majority-owned subsidiaries. Investments in affiliates in which the company 
has the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, are 
accounted for by the equity method.  All other investments in affiliates are 
carried at cost.  Intercompany transactions are eliminated.

Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents include demand deposits with banks and all highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less.  

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Approximately 84% at 
April 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994 of the total amount of consolidated 
inventories are stated on the basis of the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. 
All remaining inventories are valued using the first-in, first-out and 
average cost methods.

     If the LIFO method had not been used, inventories would have been $85,
$70, and $72 higher than reported at April 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994,
respectively.
     A substantial portion of barreled whisky will not be sold within one year
because of the duration of the aging process.  All barreled whisky is
classified in current assets in accordance with industry practice. Bulk
wine inventories are classified as work in process.
     Warehousing, insurance, ad valorem taxes, and other carrying charges
applicable to barreled whisky held for aging are included in inventory costs.

Revenue Recognition
The company recognizes revenue when goods are shipped or services are 
performed.

Long-Lived Assets
Property, plant, and equipment are stated at cost.  Provision for 
depreciation is made on the basis of estimated useful lives of depreciable 
assets, principally using the straight-line method.
    Intangible assets, principally the excess of purchase price over the fair
value of identifiable net assets of acquired businesses, are stated at cost
less accumulated amortization.  These assets are amortized using the
straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, not exceeding forty
years.

Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.  Actual 
results could differ from these estimates.

Foreign Currency and Hedging Activities
The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for substantially all of the 
company's consolidated operations.   For these operations, all gains and 
losses from currency transactions are included in income currently.  
For certain foreign equity investments, the functional currency is the local 
currency.  The cumulative translation effects for the few equity investments 
using functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are included in the 
cumulative translation adjustment in stockholders' equity.
    The company uses foreign currency forwards and options to hedge payments
and receipts of foreign currencies related to the purchase and sale of
goods overseas.  The purpose of these hedges is to protect against the risk
that currency movements would adversely affect the company's revenues and
product costs.  While these hedges are subject to the risk of loss from
fluctuations in exchange rates, these losses would be offset by gains on
the transactions being hedged.  Realized gains and losses on these hedging
instruments are recognized in income in the same period as the underlying
transaction.  The company does not engage in currency speculation.

Earnings Per Common Share
Earnings per common share are based upon net income reduced by dividend 
requirements on preferred stock and the weighted average common shares 
outstanding of 68,996,238 in 1996 and 1995, and 78,657,432 in 1994.

Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current
year presentation.




2.  BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION


3.  ACCOUNTING CHANGES
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of," was issued in March 1995.  The statement
requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be
reviewed for impairment value, based upon undiscounted future cash flows
and appropriate losses be recognized, whenever the carrying amount of an
asset may not be recovered.  The methodology set forth in SFAS No. 121 is
not significantly different from the company's existing policies, and
therefore, the adoption during fiscal 1996 had no impact on the
consolidated financial statements. 
     Effective May 1, 1993, the company adopted SFAS No. 106, "Employers' 
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," SFAS No. 112, 
"Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits," and SFAS No. 116, 
"Accounting for Contributions Received and Contributions Made."
     The cumulative effect of these changes in accounting principles was
recognized in 1994 as follows:
                                          SFAS Statement No.
                                          ------------------



     At April 30, 1996, the company had an interest rate agreement to convert
$100 of its commercial paper from variable rates to a fixed rate of 9.375%.
This contract matures in 1998.  See Note 7 for a description of the
financial instrument.
     At April 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994, $144, $204, and $150, respectively, of
commercial paper is classified as long-term debt due to the credit
available under the long-term credit facilities discussed in Note 5 and the
company's intent to refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis.  Long-
term debt payment requirements for the five fiscal years after April 30,
1996 are as follows:  1997 - $6; 1998 - $7; 1999 - $7; 2000 - $8; 2001 -
$146.  Cash paid for interest was $21 in 1996, $25 in 1995, and $17 in
1994.  Excluding the effect of the interest rate agreement discussed above,
the weighted average interest rates on commercial paper were 5.4%, 4.9%,
and 3.8% at April 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.  The weighted
average interest rates on the variable rate industrial revenue bonds were
4.2%, 4.9%, and 3.4% at April 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.

7. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The company uses derivative financial instruments for the purpose of reducing
its exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.  
While these hedging instruments are subject to fluctuations in value, such 
fluctuations are generally offset by the value of the underlying exposures 
being hedged.  The company is not a party to leveraged derivatives and does 
not hold or issue financial instruments for speculative purposes.  

Interest Rate Management
The company sold an option in fiscal 1990 to swap interest rates that 
effectively eliminated the call feature on the 9.375% notes for the period 
April 1, 1995, to April 1, 1998.  This option was exercised April 1, 1995, 
effectively converting $100 of commercial paper from floating interest rate 
obligations to 9.375% fixed rate obligations from April 1, 1995, to April 1, 
1998.  The option on this swap was sold in order to manage the level of fixed
and floating rate debt. The premium received on the sale of this option is 
being amortized as a reduction of interest expense through April 1, 1998.

Foreign Currency Management
The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for substantially all of the 
company's consolidated operations.  For these operations, all gains and 
losses from currency transactions are included in income currently.  For 
certain foreign equity investments, the functional currency is the local 
currency.  The cumulative translation effects for equity investments using 
functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are included in the 
cumulative translation adjustment in stockholders' equity.
     The company uses foreign currency forwards and options, which typically
expire within one year, to hedge payments and receipts of foreign
currencies related to the purchase and sale of goods overseas. Realized
gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in the same period as
the hedged transactions.  The company had foreign exchange forward
contracts on hand at April 30, 1996, 1995, and 1994, primarily hedging
German Mark, British Pound, and Japanese Yen revenues, totaling $28, $11,
and $27, respectively.  

Carrying Amount and Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and
commercial paper approximates fair value due to the short maturities of these
instruments.  The value of long-term debt is estimated using discounted cash 
flows based on the company's incremental borrowing rates for similar types of
borrowings.  The value of interest rate and foreign currency contracts are 
based on quoted market prices. A comparison of the carrying value and fair 
value of these instruments is as follows: 




     United States and foreign components of income before income taxes and the
cumulative effect of accounting changes are as follows:
 


     Taxes on income for fiscal 1994 include a $5 charge resulting from an 
increase in the corporate income tax rate.  Included in this amount is a 
charge of $4 for the retroactive effect of a higher tax rate on earnings 
from January 1, 1993, to April 30, 1993, and a noncash charge to restate the 
deferred tax liability at the new corporate tax rate. The following is a 
reconciliation of the effective tax rates with the United States statutory 
rates:



     Deferred tax assets and liabilities are composed of the following:



     Deferred income taxes were not provided on certain undistributed earnings 
($59 at April 30, 1996) of certain foreign subsidiaries because such 
undistributed earnings are expected to be reinvested indefinitely overseas.  
If these amounts were not considered permanently reinvested, additional 
deferred taxes of approximately $20 would have been provided.
    Cash paid for income taxes was $65 in 1996, $86 in 1995, and $94 in
1994.

10.  CONTINGENCIES
In the normal course of business, various suits and claims are brought 
against the company, some of which seek significant damages.  Many of these 
suits and claims take years to adjudicate, and it is difficult to predict 
their outcome.  In the opinion of management, based on advice from legal 
counsel, none of these suits or claims will have a material adverse effect 
on the company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.

11.  ENVIRONMENTAL
The company, along with other responsible parties, faces environmental claims
resulting from the cleanup of several waste deposit sites.  The company has 
accrued its estimated portion of cleanup costs and expects other responsible 
parties and insurance coverage to cover the remaining costs.  The company 
believes that any additional costs incurred by the company will not have a 
material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position or 
results of operations.



12.  PENSION PLANS
The company has defined benefit pension plans covering certain employees. 
The benefits for these plans are based primarily on years of service and 
employees' pay near retirement for the salaried employees and stated amounts 
for each year of service for the union and hourly employees. The company also
has unfunded plans that provide retirement benefits in excess of qualified 
plan formulas or regulatory limitations for certain employees.     
     Net pension income (expense) includes the following components:



     The amounts included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet were 
based on the funded status of the plans at January 31, 1996 and 1995 and are 
as follows: 



    The projected benefit obligation was determined using a weighted average
discount rate of 7% for 1996, 8.5% for 1995, and 7% for 1994. The weighted
average rate of future compensation increases was 4% for 1996, 5.5% for
1995, and 4% for 1994.  The expected rate of return on plan assets was 9.5%
for these years.  The plans' assets consist primarily of stocks and bonds.
    The company's policy for funded plans is to make contributions equal to or
greater than the requirements prescribed by the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act.



13.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
The company's operations have been classified into three business segments: 
wines and spirits, consumer durables, and other.  The wines and spirits 
segment includes the production, importing, and marketing of wines and 
distilled spirits.  The consumer durables segment includes the manufacture 
and sale of china, crystal, ceramic and crystal collectibles, silver, pewter,
and luggage. Through October 1993, the other segment included a credit card 
processing business and an aquaculture business. The credit card processing 
business was sold in October 1993 and the use of this segment was 
discontinued.
    Summarized financial information by business segment for 1996, 1995, and
1994 is as follows:



     Consumer durables' operating income was reduced by $8 ($5 after-
tax) for the closing or reformatting of seven retail stores in 1994.
     There were no significant intersegment sales or transfers during 1996,
1995, or 1994.  Operating income by business segment excludes interest
income, interest expense, and unallocated corporate expenses.  Corporate
assets consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments, certain corporate receivables, and other assets.
     Sales outside the United States, consisting principally of exports of
wines and spirits, amounted to approximately $282, $221, and $213 in 1996,
1995, and 1994, respectively.

14.  POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS
The company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for 
eligible retirees.
     The postretirement benefit expense includes the following components:



   The postretirement benefit liability includes the following
components: 




A 1% increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have increased
the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of April 30, 1996, by 
$6 and the postretirement benefit expense by $1.


                                                             Exhibit 21
                      SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
                              _______________
                                     
                               SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
                                  Percentage of
                                    Voting           State or
                                   Securities       Jurisdiction
      Name                          Owned          of Incorporation
Brown-Forman International F.S.C., 
  Ltd.                               100%            U.S. Virgin Islands
Canadian Mist Distillers, Limited    100%            Ontario, Canada
Early Times Distillers Company       100%            Delaware
Fetzer Vineyards                     90.1%           California
Jack Daniel Distillery,
  Lem Motlow, Prop., Inc.            100%            Kentucky
Lenox, Incorporated                  100%            New Jersey
Dansk International Designs Ltd.     100% (1)        New York
Brooks & Bentley Limited             100%(1)         United Kingdom
Brooks & Bentley S.A.R.L.            100%(1)         France
Brooks & Bentley AF                  100%(1)         Norway
Longnorth Limited                    100% (2)        Ireland
Brown-Forman - W.S. Karoulias S.A.    75% (3)        Greece
Chissick Limited                     100% (2) (3)    Ireland
Clintock Limited                     100% (2) (3)    Ireland
Lantone Limited                      100% (2) (3)    Ireland
Pitts Bay Trading Limited             75% (3)        Bermuda
Lantone Delaware, Inc.               100% (4)        Delaware
L-H Limited                          100%            United Kingdom
Mt. Eagle Corporation                100%            Delaware
The Joseph Garneau Co., S.A.         100% (2)        Switzerland
Thoroughbred Plastics Corporation    100%            Kentucky
Brown-Forman Beverages Worldwide, 
  Comercio de Bebidas Ltda           100% (5)        Brazil
Brown-Forman Worldwide, L.L.C.       100% (5)        Delaware
Fratelli Bolla International 
  Wines, Inc.                         95%            Kentucky
Brown-Forman Mauritius Limited       100%            Mauritius
Brown-Forman Worldwide B.V.          100%            Netherlands

The above companies are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The names of certain subsidiaries have been omitted which, if considered in
the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant
subsidiary.

(1)  Owned by Lenox, Incorporated.
(2)  Includes qualifying shares assigned to Brown-Forman Corporation.
(3)  Owned by Longnorth, Limited.
(4)  Owned by Lantone Limited.
(5)  Owned 99% by Brown-Forman Corporation and 1% by Early Times Distillers
     Company.


                                                     Exhibit 23

                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
We  consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statement
of  Brown-Forman Corporation on Form S-3, (File No. 33-52551) of our report
which  includes  an  explanatory paragraph for the  company's  adoption  of
changes in its methods of accounting for postretirement benefits other than
pensions,  postemployment benefits, and contributions, dated May 28,  1996,
on  our  audits  of  the  consolidated financial statements  and  financial
statement schedule of Brown-Forman Corporation as of April 30, 1996,  1995,
and  1994, and for the years ended April 30,  1996,  1995, and  1994, which
report is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


/s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
Louisville, Kentucky
July 3, 1996


                                 Appendix
                                     
In Exhibit 13 to the printed Form 10-K, the following graphs appear:

- -- on page 18, "Brown-Forman Geographic Sales Mix (excluding excise taxes)"
   pie graph depicting Fiscal 1996 mix of 82% U.S. and 18 % International.

- -- on page 18, "Operating Income" bar graph in $millions:

    Fiscal year                  1992    1993    1994     1995     1996
    As reported                   234     255     240      268      274
    Excluding unusual items       234     259     249      268      274

- -- on page 18, "Earnings Per Common Share" bar graph in dollars

    Fiscal year                  1992    1993    1994     1995     1996
    As reported                  1.76    1.88    1.63     2.15     2.31
    Excluding unusual items      1.76    1.91    1.92     2.15     2.31

- -- on page 19, "Total Shareholder Return (including dividend reinvestment)"
   line graph in dollars

    Fiscal year     B-F (Class B)     S&P Beverage         S&P 500
                                      Alcohol Index         Index
       1986             100               100                100
       1987             141               157                127
       1988             147               152                118
       1989             210               199                145
       1990             198               202                161
       1991             260               273                189
       1992             262               304                216
       1993             287               298                236       
       1994             330               326                248
       1995             376               338                291
       1996             462               417                379

10 year annual growth    17%               15%                14%

- -- on page 19, "Return on Average Invested Capital" bar graph in
   percentages:

Fiscal year                 1992     1993     1994      1995      1996
As reported                 18.8     18.0     15.4      19.5      19.7
Excluding unusual items     18.8     18.2     17.8      19.5      19.7

- -- on page 20, "Return on Average Common Stockholders' Equity" bar graph in
   percentages:

Fiscal year                 1992     1993     1994      1995      1996
As reported                 21.3     20.4     20.4      30.1      27.5
Excluding unusual items     21.3     20.7     23.6      30.1      27.5

- -- on page 20, "Wines and Spirits Geographic Sales Mix (excluding excise
   taxes)" pie graph depicting Fiscal 1996 mix of 75% U.S. and 25% 
   International;

- -- on page 21, "Sales of Wines and Spirits (excluding excise taxes)" pie
   graph depicting 22% of total Fiscal 1996 coming from New Products and 
   Brand Additions within past five years;

- -- on page 23, "Total Long-Term Debt to Total Long-Term Capital (at April
   30)" bar graph in percentages of 13.4 in 1992, 15.9 in 1993, 39.2 in 
   1994, 31.1 in 1995, and 25.0 in 1996;

- -- on page 23, "Cash Dividends Paid Per Share of Common Stock" bar graph is
   dollars of $0.78 in 1992, $0.86 in 1993, $0.93 in 1994, $0.97 in 1995, 
   and $1.02 in 1996.






